the sky was as black as the walls of harrenhal behind them, and the rain fell soft and steady, muffling the sound of their horses' hooves and running down their faces. they rode north, away from the lake, following a rutted farm road across the torn fields and into the woods and streams. arya took the lead, kicking her stolen horse to a brisk heedless trot until the trees closed in around her. hot pie and gendry followed as best they could. wolves howled off in the distance, and she could hear hot pie's heavy breathing. no one spoke. from time to time arya glanced over her shoulder, to make sure the two boys had not fallen too far behind, and to see if they were being pursued. they would be, she knew. she had stolen three horses from the stables and a map and a dagger from roose bolton's own solar, and killed a guard on the postern gate, slitting his throat when he knelt to pick up the worn iron coin that jaqen h'ghar had given her. someone would find him lying dead in his own blood, and then the hue and cry would go up. they would wake lord bolton and search harrenhal from crenel to cellar, and when they did they would find the map and the dagger missing, along with some swords from the armory, bread and cheese from the kitchens, a baker boy, a 'prentice smith, and a cupbearer called nan... or weasel, or any, depending on who you asked. the lord of the dreadfort would not come after them himself. roose bolton would stay abed, his pasty flesh dotted with leeches, giving commands in his whispery soft voice. his man walton might lead the hunt, the one they called steelshanks for the greaves he always wore on his long legs. or perhaps it would be slobbery vargo hoat and his sellswords, who named themselves the brave companions. others called them bloody mummers (though never to their faces), and sometimes the footmen, for lord vargo's habit of cutting off the hands and feet of men who displeased him. if they catch us, he'll cut off our hands and feet, arya thought, and then roose bolton will peel the skin off us. she was still dressed in her page's garb, and on the breast over her heart was sewn lord bolton's sigil, the flayed man of the dreadfort. every time she looked back, she half expected to see a blaze of torches pouring out the distant gates of harrenhal or rushing along the tops of its huge high walls, but there was nothing. harrenhal slept on, until it was lost in darkness and hidden behind the trees. when they crossed the first stream, arya turned her horse aside and led them off the road, following the twisting course of the water for a quarter-mile before finally scrambling out and up a stony bank. if the hunters brought dogs, that might throw them off the scent, she hoped. they could not stay on the road. there is death on the road, she told herself, death on all the roads. gendry and hot pie did not question her choice. she had the map, after all, and hot pie seemed almost as terrified of her as of the men who might be coming after them. he had seen the guard she'd killed. it's better if he's scared of me, she told herself. that way he'll do like i say, instead of something stupid. she should be more frightened herself, she knew. she was only ten, a skinny girl on a stolen horse with a dark forest ahead of her and men behind who would gladly cut off her feet. yet somehow she felt calmer than she ever had in harrenhal. the rain had washed the guard's blood off her fingers, she wore a sword across her back, wolves were prowling through the dark like lean grey shadows, and arya stark was unafraid. fear cuts deeper than swords, she whispered under her breath, the words that syrio forel had taught her, and jaqen's words too, valar morghulis. the rain stopped and started again and stopped once more and started, but they had good cloaks to keep the water off. arya kept them moving at a slow steady pace. it was too black beneath the trees to ride any faster; the boys were no horsemen, neither one, and the soft broken ground was treacherous with half-buried roots and hidden stones. they crossed another road, its deep ruts filled with runoff, but arya shunned it. up and down the rolling hills she took them, through brambles and briars and tangles of underbrush, along the bottoms of narrow gullies where branches heavy with wet leaves slapped at their faces as they passed. gendry's mare lost her footing in the mud once, going down hard on her hindquarters and spilling him from the saddle, but neither horse nor rider was hurt, and gendry got that stubborn look on his face and mounted right up again. not long after, they came upon three wolves devouring the corpse of a fawn. when hot pie's horse caught the scent, he shied and bolted. two of the wolves fled as well, but the third raised his head and bared his teeth, prepared to defend his kill. back off, arya told gendry. slow, so you don't spook him. they edged their mounts away, until the wolf and his feast were no longer in sight. only then did she swing about to ride after hot pie, who was clinging desperately to the saddle as he crashed through the trees. later they passed through a burned village, threading their way carefully between the shells of blackened hovels and past the bones of a dozen dead men hanging from a row of apple trees. when hot pie saw them he began to pray, a thin whispered plea for the mother's mercy, repeated over and over. arya looked up at the fleshless dead in their wet rotting clothes and said her own prayer. ser gregor, it went, dunsen, polliver, raff the sweetling. the tickler and the hound. ser ilyn, ser meryn, king joffrey, queen cersei. she ended it with valar morghulis, touched jaqen's coin where it nestled under her belt, and then reached up and plucked an apple from among the dead men as she rode beneath them. it was mushy and overripe, but she ate it worms and all. that was the day without a dawn. slowly the sky lightened around them, but they never saw the sun. black turned to grey, and colors crept timidly back into the world. the soldier pines were dressed in somber greens, the broadleafs in russets and faded golds already beginning to brown. they stopped long enough to water the horses and eat a cold, quick breakfast, ripping apart a loaf of the bread that hot pie had stolen from the kitchens and passing chunks of hard yellow cheese from hand to hand. do you know where we're going? gendry asked her. north, said arya. hot pie peered around uncertainly. which way is north? she used her cheese to point. that way. but there's no sun. how do you know? from the moss. see how it grows mostly on one side of the trees? that's south. what do we want with the north? gendry wanted to know. the trident. arya unrolled the stolen map to show them. see? once we reach the trident, all we need to do is follow it upstream till we come to riverrun, here. her finger traced the path. it's a long way, but we can't get lost so long as we keep to the river. hot pie blinked at the map. which one is riverrun? riverrun was painted as a castle tower, in the fork between the flowing blue lines of two rivers, the tumblestone and the red fork. there. she touched it. riverrun, it reads. you can read writing? he said to her, wonderingly, as if she'd said she could walk on water. she nodded. we'll be safe once we reach riverrun. we will? why? because riverrun is my grandfather's castle, and my brother robb will be there, she wanted to say. she bit her lip and rolled up the map. we just will. but only if we get there. she was the first one back in the saddle. it made her feel bad to hide the truth from hot pie, but she did not trust him with her secret. gendry knew, but that was different. gendry had his own secret, though even he didn't seem to know what it was. that day arya quickened their pace, keeping the horses to a trot as long as she dared, and sometimes spurring to a gallop when she spied a flat stretch of field before them. that was seldom enough, though; the ground was growing hillier as they went. the hills were not high, nor especially steep, but there seemed to be no end of them, and they soon grew tired of climbing up one and down the other, and found themselves following the lay of the land, along streambeds and through a maze of shallow wooded valleys where the trees made a solid canopy overhead. from time to time she sent hot pie and gendry on while she doubled back to try to confuse their trail, listening all the while for the first sign of pursuit. too slow, she thought to herself, chewing her lip, we're going too slow, they'll catch us for certain. once, from the crest of a ridge, she spied dark shapes crossing a stream in the valley behind them, and for half a heartbeat she feared that roose bolton's riders were on them, but when she looked again she realized they were only a pack of wolves. she cupped her hands around her mouth and howled down at them, ahooooooooo, ahooooooooo. when the largest of the wolves lifted its head and howled back, the sound made arya shiver. by midday hot pie had begun to complain. his arse was sore, he told them, and the saddle was rubbing him raw inside his legs, and besides he had to get some sleep. i'm so tired i'm going to fall off the horse. arya looked at gendry. if he falls off, who do you think will find him first, the wolves or the mummers? the wolves, said gendry. better noses. hot pie opened his mouth and closed it. he did not fall off his horse. the rain began again a short time later. they still had not seen so much as a glimpse of the sun. it was growing colder, and pale white mists were threading between the pines and blowing across the bare burned fields. gendry was having almost as bad a time of it as hot pie, though he was too stubborn to complain. he sat awkwardly in the saddle, a determined look on his face beneath his shaggy black hair, but arya could tell he was no horseman. i should have remembered, she thought to herself. she had been riding as long as she could remember, ponies when she was little and later horses, but gendry and hot pie were city-born, and in the city smallfolk walked. yoren had given them mounts when he took them from king's landing, but sitting on a donkey and plodding up the kingsroad behind a wagon was one thing. guiding a hunting horse through wild woods and burned fields was something else. she would make much better time on her own, arya knew, but she could not leave them. they were her pack, her friends, the only living friends that remained to her, and if not for her they would still be safe at harrenhal, gendry sweating at his forge and hot pie in the kitchens. if the mummers catch us, i'll tell them that i'm ned stark's daughter and sister to the king in the north. i'll command them to take me to my brother, and to do no harm to hot pie and gendry. they might not believe her, though, and even if they did... lord bolton was her brother's bannerman, but he frightened her all the same. i won't let them take us, she vowed silently, reaching back over her shoulder to touch the hilt of the sword that gendry had stolen for her. i won't. late that afternoon, they emerged from beneath the trees and found themselves on the banks of a river. hot pie gave a whoop of delight. the trident! now all we have to do is go upstream, like you said. we're almost there! arya chewed her lip. i don't think this is the trident. the river was swollen by the rain, but even so it couldn't be much more than thirty feet across. she remembered the trident as being much wider. it's too little to be the trident, she told them, and we didn't come far enough. yes we did, hot pie insisted. we rode all day, and hardly stopped at all. we must have come a long way. let's have a look at that map again, said gendry. arya dismounted, took out the map, unrolled it. the rain pattered against the sheepskin and ran off in rivulets. we're someplace here, i think, she said, pointing, as the boys peered over her shoulders. but, said hot pie, that's hardly any ways at all. see, harrenhal' s there by your finger, you're almost touching it. and we rode all day! there's miles and miles before we reach the trident, she said. we won't be there for days. this must be some different river, one of these, see. she showed him some of the thinner blue lines the mapmaker had painted in, each with a name painted in fine script beneath it. the darry, the greenapple, the maiden... here, this one, the little willow, it might be that. hot pie looked from the line to the river. it doesn't look so little to me. gendry was frowning as well. the one you're pointing at runs into that other one, see. the big willow, she read. the big willow, then. see, and the big willow runs into the trident, so we could follow the one to the other, but we'd need to go downstream, not up. only if this river isn't the little willow, if it's this other one here... rippledown rill, arya read. see, it loops around and flows down toward the lake, back to harrenhal. he traced the line with a finger. hot pie's eyes grew wide. no! they'll kill us for sure. we have to know which river this is, declared gendry, in his stubbornest voice. we have to know. well, we don't. the map might have names written beside the blue lines, but no one had written a name on the riverbank. we won't go up or downstream, she decided, rolling up the map. we'll cross and keep going north, like we were. can horses swim? asked hot pie. it looks deep, arry. what if there are snakes? are you sure we're going north? asked gendry. all these hills... if we got turned around... the moss on the trees - he pointed to a nearby tree. that tree's got moss on three sides, and that next one has no moss at all. we could be lost, just riding around in a circle. we could be, said arya, but i'm going to cross the river anyway. you can come or you can stay here. she climbed back into the saddle, ignoring the both of them. if they didn't want to follow, they could find riverrun on their own, though more likely the mummers would just find them. she had to ride a good half mile along the bank before she finally found a place where it looked as though it might be safe to cross, and even then her mare was reluctant to enter the water. the river, whatever its name, was running brown and fast, and the deep part in the middle came up past the horse's belly. water filled her boots, but she pressed in her heels all the same and climbed out on the far bank. from behind she heard splashing, and a mare's nervous whinny. they followed, then. good. she turned to watch as the boys struggled across and emerged dripping beside her. it wasn't the trident, she told them. it wasn't. the next river was shallower and easier to ford. that one wasn't the trident either, and no one argued with her when she told them they would cross it. dusk was settling as they stopped to rest the horses once more and share another meal of bread and cheese. i'm cold and wet, hot pie complained. we're a long way from harrenhal now, for sure. we could have us a fire - no! arya and gendry both said, at the exact same instant. hot pie quailed a little. arya gave gendry a sideways look. he said it with me, like jon used to do, back in winterfell. she missed jon snow the most of all her brothers. could we sleep at least? hot pie asked. i'm so tired, arry, and my arse is sore. i think i've got blisters. you'll have more than that if you're caught, she said. we've got to keep going. we've got to. but it's almost dark, and you can't even see the moon. get back on your horse. plodding along at a slow walking pace as the light faded around them, arya found her own exhaustion weighing heavy on her. she needed sleep as much as hot pie, but they dare not. if they slept, they might open their eyes to find vargo hoat standing over them with shagwell the fool and faithful urswyck and rorge and biter and septon utt and all his other monsters. yet after a while the motion of her horse became as soothing as the rocking of a cradle, and arya found her eyes growing heavy. she let them close, just for an instant, then snapped them wide again. i can't go to sleep, she screamed at herself silently, i can't, i can't. she knuckled at her eye and rubbed it hard to keep it open, clutching the reins tightly and kicking her mount to a canter. but neither she nor the horse could sustain the pace, and it was only a few moments before they fell back to a walk again, and a few more until her eyes closed a second time. this time they did not open quite so quickly. when they did, she found that her horse had come to a stop and was nibbling at a tuft of grass, while gendry was shaking her arm. you fell asleep, he told her. i was just resting my eyes. you were resting them a long while, then. your horse was wandering in a circle, but it wasn't till she stopped that i realized you were sleeping. hot pie's just as bad, he rode into a tree limb and got knocked off, you should have heard him yell. even that didn't wake you up. you need to stop and sleep. i can keep going as long as you can. she yawned. liar, he said. you keep going if you want to be stupid, but i'm stopping. i'll take the first watch. you sleep. what about hot pie? gendry pointed. hot pie was already on the ground, curled up beneath his cloak on a bed of damp leaves and snoring softly. he had a big wedge of cheese in one fist, but it looked as though he had fallen asleep between bites. it was no good arguing, arya realized; gendry had the right of it. the mummers will need to sleep too, she told herself, hoping it was true. she was so weary it was a struggle even to get down from the saddle, but she remembered to hobble her horse before finding a place beneath a beech tree. the ground was hard and damp. she wondered how long it would be before she slept in a bed again, with hot food and a fire to warm her. the last thing she did before closing her eyes was unsheathe her sword and lay it down beside her. ser gregor, she whispered, yawning. dunsen, polliver, raff the sweetling. the tickler and... the tickler... the hound... her dreams were red and savage. the mummers were in them, four at least, a pale lyseni and a dark brutal axeman from lb, the scarred dothraki horse lord called iggo and a dornishman whose name she never knew. on and on they came, riding through the rain in rusting mail and wet leather, swords and axe clanking against their saddles. they thought they were hunting her, she knew with all the strange sharp certainty of dreams, but they were wrong. she was hunting them. she was no little girl in the dream; she was a wolf, huge and powerful, and when she emerged from beneath the trees in front of them and bared her teeth in a low rumbling growl, she could smell the rank stench of fear from horse and man alike. the lyseni's mount reared and screamed in terror, and the others shouted at one another in mantalk, but before they could act the other wolves came hurtling from the darkness and the rain, a great pack of them, gaunt and wet and silent. the fight was short but bloody. the hairy man went down as he unslung his axe, the dark one died stringing an arrow, and the pale man from lys tried to bolt. her brothers and sisters ran him down, turning him again and again, coming at him from all sides, snapping at the legs of his horse and tearing the throat from the rider when he came crashing to the earth. only the belled man stood his ground. his horse kicked in the head of one of her sisters, and he cut another almost in half with his curved silvery claw as his hair tinkled softly. filled with rage, she leapt onto his back, knocking him head-first from his saddle. her jaws locked on his arm as they fell, her teeth sinking through the leather and wool and soft flesh. when they landed she gave a savage jerk with her head and ripped the limb loose from his shoulder. exulting, she shook it back and forth in her mouth, scattering the warm red droplets amidst the cold black rain. she was grubbing for vegetables in a dead man's garden when she heard the singing. arya stiffened, still as stone, listening, the three stringy carrots in her hand suddenly forgotten. she thought of the bloody mummers and roose bolton's men, and a shiver of fear went down her back. it's not fair, not when we finally found the trident, not when we thought we were almost safe. only why would the mummers be singing? the song came drifting up the river from somewhere beyond the little rise to the east. off to gulltown to see the fair maid, heigh-ho, heigh-ho... arya rose, carrots dangling from her hand. it sounded like the singer was coming up the river road. over among the cabbages, hot pie had heard it too, to judge by the look on his face. gendry had gone to sleep in the shade of the burned cottage, and was past hearing anything. i'll steal a sweet kiss with the point of my blade, heigh-ho, heigh-ho. she thought she heard a woodharp too, beneath the soft rush of the river. do you hear? hot pie asked in a hoarse whisper, as he hugged an armful of cabbages. someone's coming. go wake gendry, arya told him. just shake him by the shoulder, don't make a lot of noise. gendry was easy to wake, unlike hot pie, who needed to be kicked and shouted at. i'll make her my love and we'll rest in the shade, heigh-ho, heigh-ho. the song swelled louder with every word. hot pie opened his arms. the cabbages fell to the ground with soft thumps. we have to hide. where? the burned cottage and its overgrown garden stood hard beside the banks of the trident. there were a few willows growing along the river's edge and reed beds in the muddy shallows beyond, but most of the ground hereabouts was painfully open. i knew we should never have left the woods, she thought. they'd been so hungry, though, and the garden had been too much a temptation. the bread and cheese they had stolen from harrenhal had given out six days ago, back in the thick of the woods. take gendry and the horses behind the cottage, she decided. there was part of one wall still standing, big enough, maybe, to conceal two boys and three horses. if the horses don't whinny, and that singer doesn't come poking around the garden. what about you? i'll hide by the tree. he's probably alone. if he bothers me, i'll kill him. go! hot pie went, and arya dropped her carrots and drew the stolen sword from over her shoulder. she had strapped the sheath across her back; the longsword was made for a man grown, and it bumped against the ground when she wore it on her hip. it's too heavy besides, she thought, missing needle the way she did every time she took this clumsy thing in her hand. but it was a sword and she could kill with it, that was enough. lightfoot, she moved to the big old willow that grew beside the bend in the road and went to one knee in the grass and mud, within the veil of trailing branches. you old gods, she prayed as the singer's voice grew louder, you tree gods, hide me, and make him go past. then a horse whickered, and the song broke off suddenly. he's heard, she knew, but maybe he's alone, or if he's not, maybe they'll be as scared of us as we are of them. did you hear that? a man's voice said. there's something behind that wall, i would say. aye, replied a second voice, deeper. what do you think it might be, archer? two, then. arya bit her lip. she could not see them from where she knelt, on account of the willow. but she could hear. a bear. a third voice, or the first one again? a lot of meat on a bear, the deep voice said. a lot of fat as well, in fall. good to eat, if it's cooked up right. could be a wolf. maybe a lion. with four feet, you think? or two? makes no matter. does it? not so i know. archer, what do you mean to do with all them arrows? drop a few shafts over the wall. whatever' s hiding back there will come out quick enough, watch and see. what if it's some honest man back there, though? or some poor woman with a little babe at her breast? an honest man would come out and show us his face. only an outlaw would skulk and hide. aye, that's so. go on and loose your shafts, then. arya sprang to her feet. don't! she showed them her sword. there were three, she saw. only three. syrio could fight more than three, and she had hot pie and gendry to stand with her, maybe. but they're boys, and these are men. they were men afoot, travel-stained and mud-specked. she knew the singer by the woodharp he cradled against his jerkin, as a mother might cradle a babe. a small man, fifty from the look of him, he had a big mouth, a sharp nose, and thinning brown hair. his faded greens were mended here and there with old leather patches, and he wore a brace of throwing knives on his hip and a woodman's axe slung across his back. the man beside him stood a good foot taller, and had the look of a soldier. a longsword and dirk hung from his studded leather belt, rows of overlapping steel rings were sewn onto his shirt, and his head was covered by a black iron halfhelm shaped like a cone. he had bad teeth and a bushy brown beard, but it was his hooded yellow cloak that drew the eye. thick and heavy, stained here with grass and there with blood, frayed along the bottom and patched with deerskin on the right shoulder, the greatcloak gave the big man the look of some huge yellow bird. the last of the three was a youth as skinny as his longbow, if not quite as tall. red-haired and freckled, he wore a studded brigantine, high boots, fingerless leather gloves, and a quiver on his back. his arrows were fletched with grey goose feathers, and six of them stood in the ground before him, like a little fence. the three men looked at her, standing there in the road with her blade in hand. then the singer idly plucked a string. boy, he said, put up that sword now, unless you're wanting to be hurt. it's too big for you, lad, and besides, anguy here could put three shafts through you before you could hope to reach us. he could not, arya said, and i'm a girl. so you are. the singer bowed. my pardons. you go on down the road, just walk right past here, and you keep on singing, so we'll know where you are. go away and leave us be and i won't kill you. the freckle-faced archer laughed. lem, she won't kill us, did you hear? i heard, said lem, the big soldier with the deep voice. child, said the singer, put up that sword, and we'll take you to a safe place and get some food in that belly. there are wolves in these parts, and lions, and worse things. no place for a little girl to be wandering alone. she's not alone. gendry rode out from behind the cottage wall, and behind him hot pie, leading her horse. in his chainmail shirt with a sword in his hand, gendry looked almost a man grown, and dangerous. hot pie looked like hot pie. do like she says, and leave us be, warned gendry. two and three, the singer counted, and is that all of you? and horses too, lovely horses. where did you steal them? they're ours. arya watched them carefully. the singer kept distracting her with his talk, but it was the archer who was the danger. if he should pull an arrow from the ground... will you give us your names like honest men? the singer asked the boys. i'm hot pie, hot pie said at once. aye, and good for you. the man smiled. it's not every day i meet a lad with such a tasty name. and what would your friends be called, mutton chop and squab? gendry scowled down from his saddle. why should i tell you my name? i haven't heard yours. well, as to that, i'm tom of sevenstreams, but tom sevenstrings is what they call me, or tom o' sevens. this great lout with the brown teeth is lem, short for lemoncloak. it's yellow, you see, and lem's a sour sort. and young fellow me lad over there is anguy, or archer as we like to call him. now who are you? demanded lem, in the deep voice that arya had heard through the branches of the willow. she was not about to give up her true name as easy as that. squab, if you want, she said. i don't care. the big man laughed. a squab with a sword, he said. now there's something you don't often see. i'm the bull, said gendry, taking his lead from arya. she could not blame him for preferring bull to mutton chop. tom sevenstrings strummed his harp. hot pie, squab, and the bull. escaped from lord bolton's kitchen, did you? how did you know? arya demanded, uneasy. you bear his sigil on your chest, little one. she had forgotten that for an instant. beneath her cloak, she still wore her fine page's doublet, with the flayed man of the dreadfort sewn on her breast. don't call me little one! why not? said lem. you're little enough. i'm bigger than i was. i'm not a child. children didn't kill people, and she had. i can see that, squab. you're none of you children, not if you were bolton's. we never were. hot pie never knew when to keep quiet. we were at harrenhal before he came, that's all. so you're lion cubs, is that the way of it? said tom. not that either. we're nobody's men. whose men are you? anguy the archer said, we're king's men. arya frowned. which king? king robert, said lem, in his yellow cloak. that old drunk? said gendry scornfully. he's dead, some boar killed him, everyone knows that. aye, lad, said tom sevenstrings, and more's the pity. he plucked a sad chord from his harp. arya didn't think they were king's men at all. they looked more like outlaws, all tattered and ragged. they didn't even have horses to ride. king's men would have had horses. but hot pie piped up eagerly. we're looking for riverrun, he said. how many days' ride is it, do you know? arya could have killed him. you be quiet, or i'll stuff rocks in your big stupid mouth, riverrun is a long way upstream, said tom. a long hungry way. might be you'd like a hot meal before you set out? there's an inn not far ahead kept by some friends of ours. we could share some ale and a bite of bread, instead of fighting one another. an inn? the thought of hot food made arya's belly rumble, but she didn't trust this tom. not everyone who spoke you friendly was really your friend. it's near, you say? two miles upstream, said tom. a league at most. gendry looked as uncertain as she felt. what do you mean, friends? he asked warily. friends. have you forgotten what friends are? shama is the innkeep's name, tom put in. she has a sharp tongue and a fierce eye, i'll grant you that, but her heart's a good one, and she's fond of little girls. i'm not a little girl, she said angrily. who else is there? you said friends. shama's husband, and an orphan boy they took in. they won't harm you. there's ale, if you think you're old enough. fresh bread and maybe a bit of meat. tom glanced toward the cottage. and whatever you stole from old pate's garden besides. we never stole, said arya. are you old pate's daughter, then? a sister? a wife? tell me no lies, squab. i buried old pate myself, right there under that willow where you were hiding, and you don't have his look. he drew a sad sound from his harp. we've buried many a good man this past year, but we've no wish to bury you, i swear it on my harp. archer, show her. the archer's hand moved quicker than arya would have believed. his shaft went hissing past her head within an inch of her ear and buried itself in the trunk of the willow behind her. by then the bowman had a second arrow notched and drawn. she'd thought she understood what syrio meant by quick as a snake and smooth as summer silk, but now she knew she hadn't. the arrow thrummed behind her like a bee. you missed, she said. more fool you if you think so, said anguy. they go where i send them. that they do, agreed lem lemoncloak. there were a dozen steps between the archer and the point of her sword. we have no chance, arya realized, wishing she had a bow like his, and the skill to use it. glumly, she lowered her heavy longsword till the point touched the ground. we'll come see this inn, she conceded, trying to hide the doubt in her heart behind bold words. you walk in front and we'll ride behind, so we can see what you're doing. tom sevenstrings bowed deeply and said, before, behind, it makes no matter. come along, lads, let's show them the way. anguy, best pull up those arrows, we won't be needing them here. arya sheathed her sword and crossed the road to where her friends sat on their horses, keeping her distance from the three strangers. hot pie, get those cabbages, she said as she vaulted into her saddle. and the carrots too. for once he did not argue. they set off as she had wanted, walking their horses slowly down the rutted road a dozen paces behind the three on foot. but before very long, somehow they were riding right on top of them. tom sevenstrings, walked slowly, and liked to strum his woodharp as he went. do you know any songs? he asked them. i'd dearly love someone to sing with, that i would. lem can't carry a tune, and our longbow lad only knows marcher ballads, every one of them a hundred verses long. we sing real songs in the marches, anguy said mildly. singing is stupid, said arya. singing makes noise. we heard you a long way off. we could have killed you. tom's smile said he did not think so. there are worse things than dying with a song on your lips. if there were wolves hereabouts, we'd know it, groused lem. or lions. these are our woods. you never knew we were there, said gendry. now, lad, you shouldn't be so certain of that, said tom. sometimes a man knows more than he says. hot pie shifted his seat. i know the song about the bear, he said. some of it, anyhow. tom ran his fingers down his strings. then let's hear it, pie boy. he threw back his head and sang, a bear there was, a bear, a bear! all black and brown, and covered with hair... hot pie joined in lustily, even bouncing in his saddle a little on the rhymes. arya stared at him in astonishment. he had a good voice and he sang well. he never did anything well, except bake, she thought to herself. a small brook flowed into the trident a little farther on. as they waded across, their singing flushed a duck from among the reeds. anguy stopped where he stood, unslung his bow, notched an arrow, and brought it down. the bird fell in the shallows not far from the bank. lem took off his yellow cloak and waded in knee-deep to retrieve it, complaining all the while. do you think shama might have lemons down in that cellar of hers? said anguy to tom as they watched lem splash around, cursing. a dornish girl once cooked me duck with lemons. he sounded wistful. tom and hot pie resumed their song on the other side of the brook, with the duck hanging from lem's belt beneath his yellow cloak. somehow the singing made the miles seem shorter. it was not very long at all until the inn appeared before them, rising from the riverbank where the trident made a great bend to the north. arya squinted at it suspiciously as they neared. it did not look like an outlaws' lair, she had to admit; it looked friendly, even homey, with its whitewashed upper story and slate roof and the smoke curling up lazy from its chimney. stables and other outbuildings surrounded it, and there was an arbor in back, and apple trees, a small garden. the inn even had its own dock, thrusting out into the river, and... gendry, she called, her voice low and urgent. they have a boat. we could sail the rest of the way up to riverrun. it would be faster than riding, i think. he looked dubious. did you ever sail a boat? you put up the sail, she said, and the wind pushes it. what if the wind is blowing the wrong way? then there's oars to row. against the current? gendry frowned. wouldn't that be slow? and what if the boat tips over and we fall into the water? it's not our boat anyway, it's the inn's. we could take it. arya chewed her lip and said nothing. they dismounted in front of stables. there were no other horses to be seen, but arya noticed fresh manure in many of the stalls. one of us should watch the horses, she said, wary. tom overheard her. there's no need for that, squab. come eat, they'll be safe enough. i'll stay, gendry said, ignoring the singer. you can come get me after you've had some food. nodding, arya set off after hot pie and lem. her sword was still in its sheath across her back, and she kept a hand close to the hilt of the dagger she had stolen from roose bolton, in case she didn't like whatever they found within. the painted sign above the door showed a picture of some old king on his knees. inside was the common room, where a very tall ugly woman with a knobby chin stood with her hands on her hips, glaring. don't just stand there, boy, she snapped. or are you a girl? either one, you're blocking my door. get in or get out. lem, what did i tell you about my floor? you're all mud. we shot a duck. lem held it out like a peace banner. the woman snatched it from his hand. anguy shot a duck, is what you're meaning. get your boots off, are you deaf or just stupid? she turned away. husband! she called loudly. get up here, the lads are back. husband! up the cellar steps came a man in a stained apron, grumbling. he was a head shorter than the woman, with a lumpy face and loose yellowish skin that still showed the marks of some pox. i'm here, woman, quit your bellowing. what is it now? hang this, she said, handing him the duck. anguy shuffled his feet. we were thinking we might eat it, shama. with lemons. if you had some. lemons. and where would we get lemons? does this look like dome to you, you freckled fool? why don't you hop out back to the lemon trees and pick us a bushel, and some nice olives and pomegranates too. she shook a finger at him. now, i suppose i could cook it with lem's cloak, if you like, but not till it's hung for a few days. you'll eat rabbit, or you won't eat. roast rabbit on a spit would be quickest, if you've got a hunger, or might be you'd like it stewed, with ale and onions. arya could almost taste the rabbit. we have no coin, but we brought some carrots and cabbages we could trade you. did you now? and where would they be? hot pie, give her the cabbages, arya said, and he did, though he approached the old woman as gingerly as if she were rorge or biter or vargo hoat. the woman gave the vegetables a close inspection, and the boy a closer one. where is this hot pie? here. me. it's my name. and she's... ah... squab. not under my roof. i give my diners and my dishes different names, so as to tell them apart. husband! husband had stepped outside, but at her shout he hurried back. the duck's hung. what is it now, woman? wash these vegetables, she commanded. the rest of you, sit down while i start the rabbits. the boy will bring you drink. she looked down her long nose at arya and hot pie. i am not in the habit of serving ale to children, but the cider's run out, there's no cows for milk, and the river water tastes of war, with all the dead men drifting downstream. if i served you a cup of soup full of dead flies, would you drink it? arry would, said hot pie. i mean, squab. so would lem, offered anguy with a sly smile. never you mind about lem, shama said. it's ale for all. she swept off toward the kitchen. anguy and tom sevenstrings took the table near the hearth while lem was hanging his big yellow cloak on a peg. hot pie plopped down heavily on a bench at the table by the door, and arya wedged herself in beside him. tom unslung his harp. a lonely inn on a forest road, he sang, slowly picking out a tune to go with the words. the innkeep's wife was plain as a toad. shut up with that now or we won't be getting no rabbit, lem warned him. you know how she is. arya leaned close to hot pie. can you sail a boat? she asked. before he could answer, a thickset boy of fifteen or sixteen appeared with tankards of ale. hot pie took his reverently in both hands, and when he sipped he smiled wider than arya had ever seen him smile. ale, he whispered, and rabbit. well, here's to his grace, anguy the archer called out cheerfully, lifting a toast. seven save the king! all twelve o'them, lem lemoncloak muttered. he drank, and wiped the foam from his mouth with the back of his hand. husband came bustling in through the front door, with an apron full of washed vegetables. there's strange horses in the stable, he announced, as if they hadn't known. aye, said tom, setting the woodharp aside, and better horses than the three you gave away. husband dropped the vegetables on a table, annoyed. i never gave them away. i sold them for a good price, and got us a skiff as well. anyways, you lot were supposed to get them back. i knew they were outlaws, arya thought, listening. her hand went under the table to touch the hilt of her dagger, and make sure it was still there. if they try to rob us, they'll be sorry. they never came our way, said lem. well, i sent them. you must have been drunk, or asleep. us? drunk? tom drank a long draught of ale. never. you could have taken them yourself, lem told husband. what, with only the boy here? i told you twice, the old woman was up to lambswold helping that fern birth her babe. and like as not it was one o' you planted the bastard in the poor girl's belly. he gave tom a sour look. you, i'd wager, with that harp o' yours, singing all them sad songs just to get poor fern out of her smallclothes. if a song makes a maid want to slip off her clothes and feel the good warm sun kiss her skin, why, is that the singer's fault? asked tom. and 'twas anguy she fancied, besides. 'can i touch your bow?' i heard her ask him. 'ooohh, it feels so smooth and hard. could i give it a little pull, do you think? ' husband snorted. you and anguy, makes no matter which. you're as much to blame as me for them horses. they was three, you know. what can one man do against three? three, said lem scornfully, but one a woman and vother in chains, you said so yourself. husband made a face. a big woman, dressed like a man. and the one in chains... i didn't fancy the look of his eyes. anguy smiled over his ale. when i don't fancy a man's eyes, i put an arrow through one. arya remembered the shaft that had brushed by her ear. she wished she knew how to shoot arrows. husband was not impressed. you be quiet when your elders are talking. drink your ale and mind your tongue, or i'll have the old woman take a spoon to you. my elders talk too much, and i don't need you to tell me to drink my ale. he took a big swallow, to show that it was so. arya did the same. after days of drinking from brooks and puddles, and then the muddy trident, the ale tasted as good as the little sips of wine her father used to allow her. a smell was drifting out from the kitchen that made her mouth water, but her thoughts were still full of that boat. sailing it will be harder than stealing it. if we wait until they're all asleep... the serving boy reappeared with big round loaves of bread. arya broke off a chunk hungrily and tore into it. it was hard to chew, though, sort of thick and lumpy, and burned on the bottom. hot pie made a face as soon as he tasted it. that's bad bread, he said. it's burned, and tough besides. it's better when there's stew to sop up, said lem. no, it isn't, said anguy, but you're less like to break your teeth. you can eat it or go hungry, said husband. do i look like some bloody baker? i'd like to see you make better. i could, said hot pie. it's easy. you kneaded the dough too much, that's why it's so hard to chew. he took another sip of ale, and began talking lovingly of breads and pies and tarts, all the things he loved. arya rolled her eyes. tom sat down across from her. squab, he said, or arry, or whatever your true name might be, this is for you. he placed a dirty scrap of parchment on the wooden tabletop between them. she looked at it suspiciously. what is it? three golden dragons. we need to buy those horses. arya looked at him warily. they're our horses. meaning you stole them yourselves, is that it? no shame in that, girl. war makes thieves of many honest folk. tom tapped the folded parchment with his finger. i'm paying you a handsome price. more than any horse is worth, if truth be told.- hot pie grabbed the parchment and unfolded it. there's no gold, he complained loudly. it's only writing. aye, said tom, and i'm sorry for that. but after the war, we mean to make that good, you have my word as a king's man. arya pushed back from the table and got to her feet. you're no king's men, you're robbers. if you'd ever met a true robber, you'd know they do not pay, not even in paper. it's not for us we take your horses, child, it's for the good of the realm, so we can get about more quickly and fight the fights that need fighting. the king's fights. would you deny the king? they were all watching her; the archer, big lem, husband with his sallow face and shifty eyes. even shama, who stood in the door to the kitchen squinting. they are going to take our horses no matter what i say, she realized. we'll need to walk to riverrun, unless... we don't want paper. arya slapped the parchment out of hot pie's hand. you can have our horses for that boat outside. but only if you show us how to work it. tom sevenstrings stared at her a moment, and then his wide homely mouth quirked into a rueful grin. he laughed aloud. anguy joined in, and then they were all laughing, lem lemoncloak, shama and husband, even the serving boy, who had stepped out from behind the casks with a crossbow under one arm. arya wanted to scream at them, but instead she started to smile... riders! gendry's shout was shrill with alarm. the door burst open and there he was. soldiers, he panted. coming down the river road, a dozen of them. hot pie leapt up, knocking over his tankard, but tom and the others were unpertubed. there's no cause for spilling good ale on my floor, said shama. sit back down and calm yourself, boy, there's rabbit coming. you too, girl. whatever harm's been done you, it's over and it's done and you're with king's men now. we'll keep you safe as best we can. arya's only answer was to reach over her shoulder for her sword, but before she had it halfway drawn lem grabbed her wrist. we'll have no more of that, now. he twisted her arm until her hand opened. his fingers were hard with callus and fearsomely strong. again! arya thought. it's happening again, like it happened in the village, with chiswyck and raff and the mountain that rides. they were going to steal her sword and turn her back into a mouse. her free hand closed around her tankard, and she swung it at lem's face. the ale sloshed over the rim and splashed into his eyes, and she heard his nose break and saw the spurt of blood. when he roared his hands went to his face, and she was free. run! she screamed, bolting. but lem was on her again at once, with his long legs that made one of his steps equal to three of hers. she twisted and kicked, but he yanked her off her feet effortlessly and held her dangling while the blood ran down his face. stop it, you little fool, he shouted, shaking her back and forth. stop it now! gendry moved to help her, until tom sevenstrings stepped in front of him with a dagger. by then it was too late to flee. she could hear horses outside, and the sound of men's voices. a moment later a man came swaggering through the open door, a tyroshi even bigger than lem with a great thick beard, bright green at the ends but growing out grey. behind came a pair of crossbowmen helping a wounded man between them, and then others... a more ragged band arya had never seen, but there was nothing ragged about the swords, axes, and bows they carried. one or two gave her curious glances as they entered, but no one said a word. a one-eyed man in a rusty pothelm sniffed the air and grinned, while an archer with a head of stiff yellow hair was shouting for ale. after them came a spearman in a lioncrested helm, an older man with a limp, a braavosi sellsword, a... harwin? arya whispered. it was! under the beard and the tangled hair was the face of hullen's son, who used to lead her pony around the yard, ride at quintain with jon and robb, and drink too much on feast days. he was thinner, harder somehow, and at winterfell he had never worn a beard, but it was him - her father's man. harwin! squirming, she threw herself forward, trying to wrench free of lem's iron grip. it's me, she shouted, harwin, it's me, don't you know me, don't you? the tears came, and she found herself weeping like a baby, just like some stupid little girl. harwin, it's me! harwin's eyes went from her face to the flayed man on her doublet. how do you know me? he said, frowning suspiciously. the flayed man... who are you, some serving boy to lord leech? for a moment she did not know how to answer. she'd had so many names. had she only dreamed arya stark? i'm a girl, she sniffed. i was lord bolton's cupbearer but he was going to leave me for the goat, so i ran off with gendry and hot pie. you have to know me! you used to lead my pony, when i was little. his eyes went wide. gods be good, he said in a choked voice. arya underfoot? lem, let go of her. she broke my nose. lem dumped her unceremoniously to the floor. who in seven hells is she supposed to be? the hand's daughter. harwin went to one knee before her. arya stark, of winterfell. the rains came and went, but there was more grey sky than blue, and all the streams were running high. on the morning of the third day, arya noticed that the moss was growing mostly on the wrong side of the trees. we're going the wrong way, she said to gendry, as they rode past an especially mossy elm. we're going south. see how the moss is growing on the trunk? he pushed thick black hair from eyes and said, we're following the road, that's all. the road goes south here. we've been going south all day, she wanted to tell him. and yesterday too, when we were riding along that streambed. but she hadn't been paying close attention yesterday, so she couldn't be certain. i think we're lost, she said in a low voice. we shouldn't have left the river. all we had to do was follow it. the river bends and loops, said gendry. this is just a shorter way, i bet. some secret outlaw way. lem and tom and them have been living here for years. that was true. arya bit her lip. but the moss... the way it's raining, we'll have moss growing from our ears before long, gendry complained. only from our south ear, arya declared stubbornly. there was no use trying to convince the bull of anything. still, he was the only true friend she had, now that hot pie had left them. shama says she needs me to bake bread, he'd told her, the day they rode. anyhow i'm tired of rain and saddlesores and being scared all the time. there's ale here, and rabbit to eat, and the bread will be better when i make it. you'll see, when you come back. you will come back, won't you? when the war's done? he remembered who she was then, and added, my lady, reddening. arya didn't know if the war would ever be done, but she had nodded. i'm sorry i beat you that time, she said. hot pie was stupid and craven, but he'd been with her all the way from king's landing and she'd gotten used to him. i broke your nose. you broke lem's too. hot pie grinned. that was good. lem didn't think so, arya said glumly. then it was time to go. when hot pie asked if he might kiss milady's hand, she punched his shoulder. don't call me that. you're hot pie, and i'm any. i'm not hot pie here. shama just calls me boy. the same as she calls the other boy. it's going to be confusing. she missed him more than she thought she would but harwin made up for it some. she had told him about his father hullen, and how she'd found him dying by the stables in the red keep, the day she fled. he always said he'd die in a stable, harwin said, but we all thought some bad- tempered stallion would be his death, not a pack of lions. arya told of yoren and their escape from king's landing as well, and much that had happened since, but she left out the stableboy she'd stabbed with needle, and the guard whose throat she'd cut to get out of harrenhal. telling harwin would be almost like telling her father, and there were some things that she could not bear having her father know. nor did she speak of jaqen hghar and the three deaths he'd owed and paid. the iron coin he'd given her arya kept tucked away beneath her belt, but sometimes at night she would take it out and remember how his face had melted and changed when he ran his hand across it. valar morghulis, she would say under her breath. ser gregor, dunsen, polliver, raff the sweetling. the tickler and the hound. ser ilyn, ser meryn, queen cersei, king joffrey. only six winterfell men remained of the twenty her father had sent west with beric dondarrion, harwin told her, and they were scattered. it was a trap, milady. lord tywin sent his mountain across the red fork with fire and sword, hoping to draw your lord father. he planned for lord eddard to come west himself to deal with gregor clegane. if he had he would have been killed, or taken prisoner and traded for the imp, who was your lady mother's captive at the time. only the kingslayer never knew lord tywin' s plan, and when he heard about his brother's capture he attacked your father in the streets of king's landing. i remember, said arya. he killed jory. jory had always smiled at her, when he wasn't telling her to get from underfoot. he killed jory, harwin agreed, and your father's leg was broken when his horse fell on him. so lord eddard couldn't go west. he sent lord beric instead, with twenty of his own men and twenty from winterfell, me among them. there were others besides. thoros and ser raymun darry and their men, ser gladden wylde, a lord named lothar mallery. but gregor was waiting for us at the mummer's ford, with men concealed on both banks. as we crossed he fell upon us from front and rear. i saw the mountain slay raymun darry with a single blow so terrible that it took darry' s arm off at the elbow and killed the horse beneath him too. gladden wylde died there with him, and lord mallery was ridden down and drowned. we had lions on every side, and i thought i was doomed with the rest, but alyn shouted commands and restored order to our ranks, and those still a horse rallied around thoros and cut our way free. six score we'd been that morning. by dark no more than two score were left, and lord beric was gravely wounded. thoros drew a foot of lance from his chest that night, and poured boiling wine into the hole it left. every man of us was certain his lordship would be dead by daybreak. but thoros prayed with him all night beside the fire, and when dawn came, he was still alive, and stronger than he'd been. it was a fortnight before he could mount a horse, but his courage kept us strong. he told us that our war had not ended at the mummer's ford, but only begun there, and that every man of ours who'd fallen would be avenged tenfold. by then the fighting had passed by us. the mountain's men were only the van of lord tywin' s host. they crossed the red fork in strength and swept up into the riverlands, burning everything in their path. we were so few that all we could do was harry their rear, but we told each other that we'd join up with king robert when he marched west to crush lord tywin's rebellion. only then we heard that robert was dead, and lord eddard as well, and cersei lannister's whelp had ascended the iron throne. that turned the whole world on its head. we'd been sent out by the king's hand to deal with outlaws, you see, but now we were the outlaws, and lord tywin was the hand of the king. there was some wanted to yield then, but lord beric wouldn't hear of it. we were still king's men, he said, and these were the king's people the lions were savaging. if we could not fight for robert, we would fight for them, until every man of us was dead. and so we did, but as we fought something queer happened. for every man we lost, two showed up to take his place. a few were knights or squires, of gentle birth, but most were common men fieldhands and fiddlers and innkeeps, servants and shoemakers, even two septons. men of all sorts, and women too, children, dogs... dogs? said arya. aye. harwin grinned. one of our lads keeps the meanest dogs you'd ever want to see. i wish i had a good mean dog, said arya wistfully. a lion-killing dog. she'd had a direwolf once, nymeria, but she'd thrown rocks at her until she fled, to keep the queen from killing her. could a direwolf kill a lion? she wondered. it rained again that afternoon, and long into the evening. thankfully the outlaws had secret friends all over, so they did not need to camp out in the open or seek shelter beneath some leaky bower, as she and hot pie and gendry had done so often. that night they sheltered in a burned, abandoned village. at least it seemed to be abandoned, until jack-be-lucky blew two short blasts and two long ones on his hunting horn. then all sorts of people came crawling out of the ruins and up from secret cellars. they had ale and dried apples and some stale barley bread, and the outlaws had a goose that anguy had brought down on the ride, so supper that night was almost a feast. arya was sucking the last bit of meat off a wing when one of the villagers turned to lem lemoncloak and said, there were men through here not two days past, looking for the kings layer, lem snorted. they'd do better looking in riverrun. down in the deepest dungeons, where it's nice and damp. his nose looked like a squashed apple, red and raw and swollen, and his mood was foul. no, another villager said. he's escaped. the kingslayer. arya could feel the hair on the back of her neck prickling. she held her breath to listen. could that be true? tom o' sevens said. i'll not believe it, said the one-eyed man in the rusty pothelm. the other outlaws called him jack-be-lucky, though losing an eye didn't seem very lucky to arya. i've had me a taste o' them dungeons. how could he escape? the villagers could only shrug at that. greenbeard stroked his thick grey-and-green whiskers and said, the wolves will drown in blood if the kingslayer's loose again. thoros must be told. the lord of light will show him lannister in the flames. there's a fine fire burning here, said anguy, smiling. greenbeard laughed, and cuffed the archer's ear. do i look a priest to you, archer? when pello of tyrosh peers into the fire, the cinders singe his beard. lem cracked his knuckles and said, wouldn't lord beric love to capture jaime lannister, though... would he hang him, lem? one of the village women asked. it'd be half a shame to hang a man as pretty as that one. a trial first! said anguy. lord beric always gives them a trial, you know that. he smiled. then he hangs them. there was laughter all around. then tom drew his fingers across the strings of his woodharp and broke into soft song. the brothers of the kingswood, they were an outlaw band. the forest was their castle, but they roamed across the land. no man 's gold was safe from them, nor any maiden 's hand. oh, the brothers of the kingswood, that fearsome outlaw band... warm and dry in a comer between gendry and harwin, arya listened to the singing for a time, then closed her eyes and drifted off to sleep. she dreamt of home; not riverrun, but winterfell. it was not a good dream, though. she was alone outside the castle, up to her knees in mud. she could see the grey walls ahead of her, but when she tried to reach the gates every step seemed harder than the one before, and the castle faded before her, until it looked more like smoke than granite. and there were wolves as well, gaunt grey shapes stalking through the trees all around her, their eyes shining. whenever she looked at them, she remembered the taste of blood. the next morning they left the road to cut across the fields. the wind was gusting, sending dry brown leaves swirling around the hooves of their horses, but for once it did not rain. when the sun came out from behind a cloud, it was so bright arya had to pull her hood forward to keep it out of her eyes. she reined up very suddenly. we are going the wrong way! gendry groaned. what is it, moss again? look at the sun, she said. we're going south! arya rummaged in her saddlebag for the map, so she could show them. we should never have left the trident. see. she unrolled the map on her leg. all of them were looking at her now. see, there's riverrun, between the rivers. as it happens, said jack-be-lucky, we know where riverrun is. every man o' us. you're not going to riverrun, lem told her bluntly. i was almost there, arya thought. i should have let them take our horses. i could have walked the rest of the way. she remembered her dream then, and bit her lip. ah, don't look so hurt, child, said tom sevenstrings. no harm will come to you, you have my word on that. the word of a liar! no one lied, said lem. we made no promises. it's not for us to say what's to be done with you. lem was not the leader, though, no more than tom; that was greenbeard, the tyroshi. arya turned to face him. take me to riverrun and you'll be rewarded, she said desperately. little one, greenbeard answered, a peasant may skin a common squirrel for his pot, but if he finds a gold squirrel in his tree he takes it to his lord, or he will wish he did. i'm not a squirrel, arya insisted. you are. greenbeard laughed. a little gold squirrel who's off to see the lightning lord, whether she wills it or not. he'll know what's to be done with you. i'll wager he sends you back to your lady mother, just as you wish. tom sevenstrings nodded. aye, that's like lord beric. he'll do right by you, see if he don't. lord beric dondarrion. arya remembered all she'd heard at harrenhal, from the lannisters and the bloody mummers alike. lord beric the wisp o' the wood. lord beric who'd been killed by vargo hoat and before that by ser amory lorch, and twice by the mountain that rides. if he won't send me home maybe i'll kill him too. why do i have to see lord beric? she asked quietly. we bring him all our highborn captives, said anguy. captive. arya took a breath to still her soul. calm as still water. she glanced at the outlaws on their horses, and turned her horse's head. now, quick as a snake, she thought, as she slammed her heels into the courser's flank. right between greenbeard and jack-be-lucky she flew, and caught one glimpse of gendry's startled face as his mare moved out of her way. and then she was in the open field, and running. north or south, east or west, that made no matter now. she could find the way to riverrun later, once she'd lost them. arya leaned forward in the saddle and urged the horse to a gallop. behind her the outlaws were cursing and shouting at her to come back. she shut her ears to the calls, but when she glanced back over her shoulder four of them were coming after her, anguy and harwin and greenbeard racing side by side with lem farther back, his big yellow cloak flapping behind him as he rode. swift as a deer, she told her mount. run, now, run. arya dashed across brown weedy fields, through waist-high grass and piles of dry leaves that flurried and flew when her horse galloped past. there were woods to her left, she saw. i can lose them there. a dry ditch ran along one side of the field, but she leapt it without breaking stride, and plunged in among the stand of elm and yew and birch trees. a quick peek back showed anguy and harwin still hard on her heels. greenbeard had fallen behind, though, and she could not see lem at all. faster, she told her horse, you can, you can. between two elms she rode, and never paused to see which side the moss was growing on. she leapt a rotten log and swung wide around a monstrous deadfall, jagged with broken branches. then up a gentle slope and down the other side, slowing and speeding up again, her horse's shoes striking sparks off the flintstones underfoot. at the top of the hill she glanced back. harwin had pushed ahead of anguy, but both were coming hard. greenbeard had fallen further back and seemed to be flagging. a stream barred her way. she splashed down into it, through water choked with wet brown leaves. some clung to her horse's legs as they climbed the other side. the undergrowth was thicker here, the ground so full of roots and rocks that she had to slow, but she kept as good a pace as she dared. another hill before her, this one steeper. up she went, and down again. how big are these woods? she wondered. she had the faster horse, she knew that, she had stolen one of roose bolton's best from the stables at harrenhal, but his speed was wasted here. i need to find the fields again. i need to find a road, instead she found a game trail. it was narrow and uneven, but it was something. she raced along it, branches whipping at her face. one snagged her hood and yanked it back, and for half a heartbeat she feared they had caught her. a vixen burst from the brush as she passed, startled by the fury of her flight. the game trail brought her to another stream. or was it the same one? had she gotten turned around? there was no time to puzzle it out, she could hear their horses crashing through the trees behind her. thorns scratched at her face like the cats she used to chase in king's landing. sparrows exploded from the branches of an alder. but the trees were thinning now, and suddenly she was out of them. broad level fields stretched before her, all weeds and wild wheat, sodden and trampled. arya kicked her horse back to a gallop. run, she thought, run for riverrun, run for home. had she lost them? she took one quick look, and there was harwin six yards back and gaining. no, she thought, no, he can't, not him, it isn't fair. both horses were lathered and flagging by the time he came up beside her, reached over, and grabbed her bridle. arya was breathing hard herself then. she knew the fight was done. you ride like a northman, milady, harwin said when he'd drawn them to a halt. your aunt was the same. lady lyanna. but my father was master of horse, remember. the look she gave him was full of hurt. i thought you were my father's man. lord eddard's dead, milady. i belong to the lightning lord now, and to my brothers. what brothers? old hullen had fathered no other sons that arya could remember. anguy, lem, tom o' sevens, jack and greenbeard, all of them. we mean your brother robb no ill, milady... but it's not him we fight for. he has an army all his own, and many a great lord to bend the knee. the smallfolk have only us. he gave her a searching look. can you understand what i am telling you? yes. that he was not robb's man, she understood well enough. and that she was his captive. i could have stayed with hot pie. we could have taken the little boat and sailed it up to riverrun. she had been better off as squab. no one would take squab captive, or nan, or weasel, or any the orphan boy. i was a wolf, she thought, but now i'm just some stupid little lady again. will you ride back peaceful now, harwin asked her, or must i tie you up and throw you across your horse? i'll ride peaceful, she said sullenly. for now. the small square keep was half a ruin, and so too the great grey knight who lived there. he was so old he did not understand their questions. no matter what was said to him, he would only smile and mutter, i held the bridge against ser maynard. red hair and a black temper, he had, but he could not move me. six wounds i took before i killed him. six! the maester who cared for him was a young man, thankfully. after the old knight had drifted to sleep in his chair, he took them aside and said, i fear you seek a ghost. we had a bird, ages ago, half a year at least. the lannisters caught lord beric near the gods eye. he was hanged. aye, hanged he was, but thoros cut him down before he died. lem's broken nose was not so red or swollen as it had been, but it was healing crooked, giving his face a lopsided look. his lordship's a hard man to kill, he is. and a hard man to find, it would seem, the maester said. have you asked the lady of the leaves? we shall, said greenbeard. the next morning, as they crossed the little stone bridge behind the keep, gendry wondered if this was the bridge the old man had fought over. no one knew. most like it is, said jack-be- lucky. don't see no other bridges. you'd know for certain if there was a song, said tom sevenstrings. one good song, and we'd know who ser maynard used to be and why he wanted to cross this bridge so bad. poor old lychester might be as far famed as the dragonknight if he'd only had sense enough to keep a singer. lord lychester's sons died in robert's rebellion, grumbled lem. some on one side, some on other. he's not been right in the head since. no bloody song's like to help any o' that. what did the maester mean, about asking the lady of the leaves? arya asked anguy as they rode. the archer smiled. wait and see. three days later, as they rode through a yellow wood, jack-be-lucky unslung his horn and blew a signal, a different one than before. the sounds had scarcely died away when rope ladders unrolled from the limbs of trees. hobble the horses and up we go, said tom, half singing the words. they climbed to a hidden village in the upper branches, a maze of rope walkways and little moss-covered houses concealed behind walls of red and gold, and were taken to the lady of the leaves, a stick-thin white-haired woman dressed in roughspun. we cannot stay here much longer, with autumn on us, she told them. a dozen wolves went down the hayford road nine days past, hunting. if they'd chanced to look up they might have seen us. you've not seen lord beric? asked tom sevenstrings. he's dead. the woman sounded sick. the mountain caught him, and drove a dagger through his eye. a begging brother told us. he had it from the lips of a man who saw it happen. that's an old stale tale, and false, said lem. the lightning lord's not so easy to kill. ser gregor might have put his eye out, but a man don't die o' that lack could tell you. well, i never did, said one-eyed jack-be-lucky. my father got himself good and hanged by lord piper's bailiff, my brother wat got sent to the wall, and the lannisters killed my other brothers. an eye, that's nothing. you swear he's not dead? the woman clutched lem's arm. bless you, lem, that's the best tidings we've had in half a year. may the warrior defend him, and the red priest too. the next night they found shelter beneath the scorched shell of a sept, in a burned village called sallydance. only shards remained of its windows of leaded glass, and the aged septon who greeted them said the looters had even made off with the mother's costly robes, the crone's gilded lantern, and the silver crown the father had worn. they hacked the maiden's breasts off too, though those were only wood, he told them. and the eyes, the eyes were jet and lapis and mother-of-pearl, they pried them out with their knives. may the mother have mercy on them all. whose work was this? said lem lemoncloak. mummers? no, the old man said. northmen, they were. savages who worship trees. they wanted the kingslayer, they said. arya heard him, and chewed her lip. she could feel gendry looking at her. it made her angry and ashamed. there were a dozen men living in the vault beneath the sept, amongst cobwebs and roots and broken wine casks, but they had no word of beric dondarrion either. not even their leader, who wore soot-blackened armor and a crude lightning bolt on his cloak. when greenbeard saw arya staring at him, he laughed and said, the lightning lord is everywhere and nowhere, skinny squirrel. i'm not a squirrel, she said. i'll almost be a woman soon. i'll be one-and-ten. best watch out i don't marry you, then! he tried to tickle her under the chin, but arya slapped his stupid hand away. lem and gendry played tiles with their hosts that night, while tom sevenstrings sang a silly song about big belly ben and the high septon's goose. anguy let arya try his longbow, but no matter how hard she bit her lip she could not draw it. you need a lighter bow, milady, the freckled bowman said. if there's seasoned wood at riverrun, might be i'll make you one. tom overheard him, and broke off his song. you're a young fool, archer. if we go to riverrun it will only be to collect her ransom, won't be no time for you to sit about making bows. be thankful if you get out with your hide. lord hoster was hanging outlaws before you were shaving. and that son of his... a man who hates music can't be trusted, i always say. it's not music he hates, said lem. it's you, fool. well, he has no cause. the wench was willing to make a man of him, is it my fault he drank too much to do the deed? lem snorted through his broken nose. was it you who made a song of it, or some other bloody arse in love with his own voice? i only sang it the once, tom complained. and who's to say the song was about him? 'twas a song about a fish. a floppy fish, said anguy, laughing. arya didn't care what tom's stupid songs were about. she turned to harwin. what did he mean about ransom? we have sore need of horses, milady. armor as well. swords, shields, spears. all the things coin can buy. aye, and seed for planting. winter is coming, remember? he touched her under the chin. you will not be the first highborn captive we've ransomed. nor the last, i'd hope. that much was true, arya knew. knights were captured and ransomed all the time, and sometimes women were too. but what if robb won't pay their price? she wasn't a famous knight, and kings were supposed to put the realm before their sisters. and her lady mother, what would she say? would she still want her back, after all the things she'd done? arya chewed her lip and wondered. the next day they rode to a place called high heart, a hill so lofty that from atop it arya felt as though she could see half the world. around its brow stood a ring of huge pale stumps, all that remained of a circle of once-mighty weirwoods. arya and gendry walked around the hill to count them. there were thirty-one, some so wide that she could have used them for a bed. high heart had been sacred to the children of the forest, tom sevenstrings told her, and some of their magic lingered here still. no harm can ever come to those as sleep here, the singer said. arya thought that must be true; the hill was so high and the surrounding lands so flat that no enemy could approach unseen. the smallfolk hereabouts shunned the place, tom told her; it was said to be haunted by the ghosts of the children of the forest who had died here when the andal king named erreg the kins layer had cut down their grove. arya knew about the children of the forest, and about the andals too, but ghosts did not frighten her. she used to hide in the crypts of winterfell when she was little, and play games of come-into-my-castle and monsters and maidens amongst the stone kings on their thrones. yet even so, the hair on the back of her neck stood up that night. she had been asleep, but the storm woke her. the wind pulled the coverlet right off her and sent it swirling into the bushes. when she went after it she heard voices. beside the embers of their campfire, she saw tom, lem, and greenbeard talking to a tiny little woman, a foot shorter than arya and older than old nan, all stooped and wrinkled and leaning on a gnarled black cane. her white hair was so long it came almost to the ground. when the wind gusted it blew about her head in a fine cloud. her flesh was whiter, the color of milk, and it seemed to arya that her eyes were red, though it was hard to tell from the bushes. the old gods stir and will not let me sleep, she heard the woman say. i dreamt i saw a shadow with a burning heart butchering a golden stag, aye. i dreamt of a man without a face, waiting on a bridge that swayed and swung. on his shoulder perched a drowned crow with seaweed hanging from his wings. i dreamt of a roaring river and a woman that was a fish. dead she drifted, with red tears on her cheeks, but when her eyes did open, oh, i woke from terror. all this i dreamt, and more. do you have gifts for me, to pay me for my dreams? dreams, grumbled lem lemoncloak, what good are dreams? fish women and drowned crows. i had a dream myself last night. i was kissing this tavern wench i used to know. are you going to pay me for that, old woman? the wench is dead, the woman hissed. only worms may kiss her now. and then to tom sevenstrings she said, i'll have my song or i'll have you gone. so the singer played for her, so soft and sad that arya only heard snatches of the words, though the tune was half- familiar. sansa would know it, i bet. her sister had known all the songs, and she could even play a little, and sing so sweetly. all i could ever do was shout the words. the next morning the little white woman was nowhere to be seen. as they saddled their horses, arya asked tom sevenstrings if the children of the forest still dwelled on high heart. the singer chuckled. saw her, did you? was she a ghost? do ghosts complain of how their joints creak? no, she's only an old dwarf woman. a queer one, though, and evil-eyed. but she knows things she has no business knowing, and sometimes she'll tell you if she likes the look of you. did she like the looks of you? arya asked doubtfully. the singer laughed. the sound of me, at least. she always makes me sing the same bloody song, though. not a bad song, mind you, but i know others just as good. he shook his head. what matters is, we have the scent now. you'll soon be seeing thoros and the lightning lord, i'll wager. if you're their men, why do they hide from you? tom sevenstrings rolled his eyes at that, but harwin gave her an answer. i wouldn't call it hiding, milady, but it's true, lord beric moves about a lot, and seldom lets on what his plans are. that way no one can betray him. by now there must be hundreds of us sworn to him, maybe thousands, but it wouldn't do for us all to trail along behind him. we'd eat the country bare, or get butchered in a battle by some bigger host. the way we're scattered in little bands, we can strike in a dozen places at once, and be off somewhere else before they know. and when one of us is caught and put to the question, well, we can't tell them where to find lord beric no matter what they do to us. he hesitated. you know what it means, to be put to the question? arya nodded. tickling, they called it. polliver and raff and all. she told them about the village by the gods eye where she and gendry had been caught, and the questions that the tickler had asked. is there gold hidden in the village? he would always begin. silver, gems? is there food? where is lord beric? which of you village folk helped him? where did he go? how many men did he have with him? how many knights? how many bowmen? how many were horsed? how are they armed? how many wounded? where did they go, did you say? just thinking of it, she could hear the shrieks again, and smell the stench of blood and shit and burning flesh. he always asked the same questions, she told the outlaws solemnly, but he changed the tickling every day. no child should be made to suffer that, harwin said when she was done. the mountain lost half his men at the stone mill, we hear. might be this tickler's floating down the red fork even now, with fish biting at his face. if not, well, it's one more crime they'll answer for. i've heard his lordship say this war began when the hand sent him out to bring the king's justice to gregor clegane, and that's how he means for it to end. he gave her shoulder a reassuring pat. you best mount up, milady. it's a long day's ride to acorn hall, but at the end of it we'll have a roof above our heads and a hot supper in our bellies. it was a long day's ride, but as dusk was settling they forded a brook and came up on acorn hall, with its stone curtain walls and great oaken keep. its master was away fighting in the retinue of his master, lord vance, the castle gates closed and barred in his absence. but his lady wife was an old friend of tom sevenstrings, and anguy said they'd once been lovers. anguy often rode beside her; he was closer to her in age than any of them but gendry, and he told her droll tales of the dornish marches. he never fooled her, though. he's not my friend. he's only staying close to watch me and make sure i don't ride off again. well, arya could watch as well. syrio forel had taught her how. lady smallwood welcomed the outlaws kindly enough, though she gave them a tongue lashing for dragging a young girl through the war. she became even more wroth when lem let slip that arya was highborn. who dressed the poor child in those bolton rags? she demanded of them. that badge... there's many a man who would hang her in half a heartbeat for wearing a flayed man on her breast. arya promptly found herself marched upstairs, forced into a tub, and doused with scalding hot water. lady smallwood's maidservants scrubbed her so hard it felt like they were flaying her themselves. they even dumped in some stinkysweet stuff that smelled like flowers. and afterward, they insisted she dress herself in girl's things, brown woolen stockings and a light linen shift, and over that a light green gown with acorns embroidered all over the bodice in brown thread, and more acorns bordering the hem. my great-aunt is a septa at a motherhouse in oldtown, lady smallwood said as the women laced the gown up arya's back. i sent my daughter there when the war began. she'll have outgrown these things by the time she returns, no doubt. are you fond of dancing, child? my carellen's a lovely dancer. she sings beautifully as well. what do you like to do? she scuffed a toe amongst the rushes. needlework. very restful, isn't it? well, said arya, not the way i do it. no? i have always found it so. the gods give each of us our little gifts and talents, and it is meant for us to use them, my aunt always says. any act can be a prayer, if done as well as we are able. isn't that a lovely thought? remember that the next time you do your needlework. do you work at it every day? i did till i lost needle. my new one's not as good. in times like these, we all must make do as best we can. lady smallwood fussed at the bodice of the gown. now you look a proper young lady. i'm not a lady, arya wanted to tell her, i'm a wolf. i do not know who you are, child, the woman said, and it may be that's for the best. someone important, i fear. she smoothed down arya's collar. in times like these, it is better to be insignificant. would that i could keep you here with me. that would not be safe, though. i have walls, but too few men to hold them. she sighed. supper was being served in the hall by the time arya was all washed and combed and dressed. gendry took one look and laughed so hard that wine came out his nose, until harwin gave him a thwack alongside his ear. the meal was plain but filling; mutton and mushrooms, brown bread, pease pudding, and baked apples with yellow cheese. when the food had been cleared and the servants sent away, greenbeard lowered his voice to ask if her ladyship had word of the lightning lord. word? she smiled. they were here not a fortnight past. them and a dozen more, driving sheep. i could scarcely believe my eyes. thoros gave me three as thanks. you've eaten one tonight. thoros herding sheep? anguy laughed aloud. i grant you it was an odd sight, but thoros claimed that as a priest he knew how to tend a flock aye, and shear them too, chuckled lem lemoncloak. someone could make a rare fine song of that. tom plucked a string on his woodharp. lady smallwood gave him a withering look. someone who doesn't rhyme carry on with dondarrion, perhaps. or play 'oh, lay my sweet lass down in the grass' to every milkmaid in the shire and leave two of them with big bellies. it was 'let me drink your beauty, ' said tom defensively, and milkmaids are always glad to hear it. as was a certain highborn lady i do recall. i play to please. her nostrils flared. the riverlands are full of maids you've pleased, all drinking tansy tea. you'd think a man as old as you would know to spill his seed on their bellies. men will be calling you tom sevensons before much longer. as it happens, said tom, i passed seven many years ago. and fine boys they are too, with voices sweet as nightingales. plainly he did not care for the subject. did his lordship say where he was bound, milady? asked harwin. lord beric never shares his plans, but there's hunger down near stoney sept and the threepenny wood. i should look for him there. she took a sip of wine. you'd best know, i've had less pleasant callers as well. a pack of wolves came howling around my gates, thinking i might have jaime lannister in here. tom stopped his plucking. then it's true, the kingslayer is loose again? lady smallwood gave him a scornful look. i hardly think they'd be hunting him if he was chained up under riverrun. what did m'lady tell them? asked jack-be-lucky. why, that i had ser jaime naked in my bed, but i'd left him much too exhausted to come down. one of them had the effrontery to call me a liar, so we saw them off with a few quarrels. i believe they made for blackbottom bend. arya squirmed restlessly in her seat. what northmen was it, who came looking after the kings layer? lady smallwood seemed surprised that she'd spoken. they did not give their names, child, but they wore black, with the badge of a white sun on the breast. a white sun on black was the sigil of lord karstark, arya thought. those were robb's men. she wondered if they were still close. if she could give the outlaws the slip and find them, maybe they would take her to her mother at riverrun... did they say how lannister came to escape? lem asked. they did, said lady smallwood. not that i believe a word of it. they claimed that lady catelyn set him free. that startled tom so badly he snapped a string. go on with you, he said. that's madness. it's not true, thought arya. it couldn't be true. i thought the same, said lady smallwood. that was when harwin remembered arya. such talk is not for your ears, milady. no, i want to hear. the outlaws were adamant. go on with you, skinny squirrel, said greenbeard. be a good little lady and go play in the yard while we talk, now. arya stalked away angry, and would have slammed the door if it hadn't been so heavy. darkness had settled over acorn hall. a few torches burned along the walls, but that was all. the gates of the little castle were closed and barred. she had promised harwin that she would not try and run away again, she knew, but that was before they started telling lies about her mother. arya? gendry had followed her out. lady smallwood said there's a smithy. want to have a look? if you want. she had nothing else to do. this thoros, gendry said as they walked past the kennels, is he the same thoros who lived in the castle at king's landing? a red priest, fat, with a shaved head? i think so. arya had never spoken to thoros at king's landing that she could recall, but she knew who he was. he and jalabhar xho had been the most colorful figures at robert's court, and thoros was a great friend of the king as well. he won't remember me, but he used to come to our forge. the smallwood forge had not been used in some time, though the smith had hung his tools neatly on the wall. gendry lit a candle and set it on the anvil while he took down a pair of tongs. my master always scolded him about his flaming swords. it was no way to treat good steel, he'd say, but this thoros never used good steel. he'd just dip some cheap sword in wildfire and set it alight. it was only an alchemist's trick, my master said, but it scared the horses and some of the greener knights. she screwed up her face, trying to remember if her father had ever talked about thoros. he isn't very priestly, is he? no, gendry admitted. master mott said thoros could outdrink even king robert. they were pease in a pod, he told me, both gluttons and sots. you shouldn't call the king a sot. maybe king robert had drunk a lot, but he'd been her father's friend. i was talking about thoros. gendry reached out with the tongs as if to pinch her face, but arya swatted them away. he liked feasts and tourneys, that was why king robert was so fond of him. and this thoros was brave. when the walls of pyke crashed down, he was the first through the breach. he fought with one of his flaming swords, setting ironmen afire with every slash. i wish i had a flaming sword. arya could think of lots of people she'd like to set on fire. it's only a trick, i told you. the wildfire ruins the steel. my master sold thoros a new sword after every tourney. every time they would have a fight about the price. gendry hung the tongs back up and took down the heavy hammer. master mott said it was time i made my first longsword. he gave me a sweet piece of steel, and i knew just how i wanted to shape the blade. only yoren came, and took me away for the night's watch. you can still make swords if you want, said arya. you can make them for my brother robb when we get to riverrun. riverrun. gendry put the hammer down and looked at her. you look different now. like a proper little girl. i look like an oak tree, with all these stupid acorns. nice, though. a nice oak tree. he stepped closer, and sniffed at her. you even smell nice for a change. you don't. you stink. arya shoved him back against the anvil and made to run, but gendry caught her arm. she stuck a foot between his legs and tripped him, but he yanked her down with him, and they rolled across the floor of the smithy. he was very strong, but she was quicker. every time he tried to hold her still she wriggled free and punched him. gendry only laughed at the blows, which made her mad. he finally caught both her wrists in one hand and started to tickle her with the other, so arya slammed her knee between his legs, and wrenched free. both of them were covered in dirt, and one sleeve was torn, on her stupid acorn dress. i bet i don't look so nice now, she shouted. tom was singing when they returned to the hall. my featherbed is deep and soft, and there i'll lay you down, i'll dress you all in yellow silk, and on your head a crown. for you shall be my lady love, and i shall be your lord. i'll always keep you warm and safe, and guard you with my sword. harwin took one look at them and burst out laughing, and anguy smiled one of his stupid freckly smiles and said, are we certain this one is a highborn lady? but lem lemoncloak gave gendry a clout alongside the head. you want to fight, fight with me! she's a girl, and half your age! you keep your hands off o' her, you hear me? i started it said arya. gendry was just talking.  leave the boy, lem, said harwin. arya did start it, i have no doubt. she was much the same at winterfell. tom winked at her as he sang: and how she smiled and how she laughed, the maiden of the tree. she spun away and said to him, no featherbed for me. i'll wear a gown of golden leaves, and bind my hair with grass, but you can be my forest love, and me your forest lass. i have no gowns of leaves, said lady smallwood with a small fond smile, but carellen left some other dresses that might serve. come, child, let us go upstairs and see what we can find. it was even worse than before; lady smallwood insisted that arya take another bath, and cut and comb her hair besides; the dress she put her in this time was sort of lilac-colored, and decorated with little baby pearls. the only good thing about it was that it was so delicate that no one could expect her to ride in it. so the next morning as they broke their fast, lady smallwood gave her breeches, belt, and tunic to wear, and a brown doeskin jerkin dotted with iron studs. they were my son's things, she said. he died when he was seven. i'm sorry, my lady. arya suddenly felt bad for her, and ashamed. i'm sorry i tore the acorn dress too. it was pretty. yes, child. and so are you. be brave. stoney sept was the biggest town arya had seen since king's landing, and harwin said her father had won a famous battle here. the mad king's men had been hunting robert, trying to catch him before he could rejoin your father, he told her as they rode toward the gate. he was wounded, being tended by some friends, when lord connington the hand took the town with a mighty force and started searching house by house. before they could find him, though, lord eddard and your grandfather came down on the town and stormed the walls. lord connington fought back fierce. they battled in the streets and alleys, even on the rooftops, and all the septons rang their bells so the smallfolk would know to lock their doors. robert came out of hiding to join the fight when the bells began to ring. he slew six men that day, they say. one was myles mooton, a famous knight who'd been prince rhaegar's squire. he would have slain the hand too, but the battle never brought them together. connington wounded your grandfather tully sore, though, and killed ser denys arryn, the darling of the vale. but when he saw the day was lost, he flew off as fast as the griffins on his shield. the battle of the bells, they called it after. robert always said your father won it, not him. more recent battles had been fought here as well, arya thought from the look of the place. the town gates were made of raw new wood; outside the walls a pile of charred planks remained to tell what had happened to the old ones. stoney sept was closed up tight, but when the captain of the gate saw who they were, he opened a sally port for them. how you fixed for food? tom asked as they entered. not so bad as we were. the huntsman brought in a flock o' sheep, and there's been some trading across the blackwater. the harvest wasn't burned south o' the river. course, there's plenty want to take what we got. wolves one day, mummers the next. them that's not looking for food are looking for plunder, or women to rape, and them that's not out for gold or wenches are looking for the bloody kingslayer. talk is, he slipped right through lord edmure's fingers. lord edmure? lem frowned. is lord hoster dead, then? dead or dying. think lannister might be making for the blackwater? it's the quickest way to king's landing, the huntsman swears. the captain did not wait for an answer. he took his dogs out for a sniff round. if ser jaime's hereabouts, they'll find him. i've seen them dogs rip bears apart. think they'll like the taste of lion blood? a chewed-up corpse's no good to no one, said lem. the huntsman bloody well knows that, too. when the westermen came through they raped the huntsman's wife and sister, put his crops to the torch, ate half his sheep, and killed the other half for spite. killed six dogs too, and threw the carcasses down his well. a chewed-up corpse would be plenty good enough for him, i'd say. me as well. he'd best not, said lem. that's all i got to say. he'd best not, and you're a bloody fool. arya rode between harwin and anguy as the outlaws moved down the streets where her father once had fought. she could see the sept on its hill, and below it a stout strong holdfast of grey stone that looked much too small for such a big town. but every third house they passed was a blackened shell, and she saw no people. are all the townsfolk dead? only shy. anguy pointed out two bowmen on a roof, and some boys with sooty faces crouched in the rubble of an alehouse. farther on, a baker threw open a shuttered window and shouted down to lem. the sound of his voice brought more people out of hiding, and stoney sept slowly seemed to come to life around them. in the market square at the town's heart stood a fountain in the shape of a leaping trout, spouting water into a shallow pool. women were filling pails and flagons there. a few feet away, a dozen iron cages hung from creaking wooden posts. crow cages, arya knew. the crows were mostly outside the cages, splashing in the water or perched atop the bars; inside were men. lem reined up scowling. what's this, now? justice, answered a woman at the fountain. what, did you run short o' hempen rope? was this done at ser wilbert's decree? asked tom. a man laughed bitterly. the lions killed ser wilbert a year ago. his sons are all off with the young wolf, getting fat in the west. you think they give a damn for the likes of us? it was the mad huntsman caught these wolves. wolves. arya went cold. robb's men, and my father's. she felt drawn toward the cages. the bars allowed so little room that prisoners could neither sit nor turn; they stood naked, exposed to sun and wind and rain. the first three cages held dead men. carrion crows had eaten out their eyes, yet the empty sockets seemed to follow her. the fourth man in the row stirred as she passed. around his mouth his ragged beard was thick with blood and flies. they exploded when he spoke, buzzing around his head. water. the word was a croak. please... water,.. the man in the next cage opened his eyes at the sound. here, he said. here, me. an old man, he was; his beard was grey and his scalp was bald and mottled brown with age. there was another dead man beyond the old one, a big red-bearded man with a rotting grey bandage covering his left ear and part of his temple. but the worst thing was between his legs, where nothing remained but a crusted brown hole crawling with maggots. farther down was a fat man. the crow cage was so cruelly narrow it was hard to see how they'd ever gotten him inside. the iron dug painfully into his belly, squeezing bulges out between the bars. long days baking in the sun had burned him a painful red from head to heel. when he shifted his weight, his cage creaked and swayed, and arya could see pale white stripes where the bars had shielded his flesh from the sun. whose men were you? she asked them. at the sound of her voice, the fat man opened his eyes. the skin around them was so red they looked like boiled eggs floating in a dish of blood. water... a drink... whose? she said again. pay them no mind, boy, the townsman told her. they're none o' your concern. ride on by. what did they do? she asked him. they put eight people to the sword at tumbler's falls, he said. they wanted the kingslayer, but he wasn't there so they did some rape and murder. he jerked a thumb toward the corpse with maggots where his manhood ought to be. that one there did the raping. now move along. a swallow, the fat one called down. ha' mercy, boy, a swallow. the old one slid an arm up to grasp the bars. the motion made his cage swing violently. water, gasped the one with the flies in his beard. she looked at their filthy hair and scraggly beards and reddened eyes, at their dry, cracked, bleeding lips. wolves, she thought again. like me. was this her pack? how could they be robb's men? she wanted to hit them. she wanted to hurt them. she wanted to cry. they all seemed to be looking at her, the living and the dead alike. the old man had squeezed three fingers out between the bars. water, he said, water. arya swung down from her horse. they can't hurt me, they're dying. she took her cup from her bedroll and went to the fountain. what do you think you're doing, boy? the townsman snapped. they're no concern o' yours. she raised the cup to the fish's mouth. the water splashed across her fingers and down her sleeve, but arya did not move until the cup was brimming over. when she turned back toward the cages, the townsman moved to stop her. you get away from them, boy - she's a girl, said harwin. leave her be. aye, said lem. lord beric don't hold with caging men to die of thirst. why don't you hang them decent? there was nothing decent 'bout them things they did at tumbler's falls, the townsman growled right back at him. the bars were too narrow to pass a cup through, but harwin and gendry offered her a leg up. she planted a foot in harwin's cupped hands, vaulted onto gendry's shoulders, and grabbed the bars on top of the cage. the fat man turned his face up and pressed his cheek to the iron, and arya poured the water over him. he sucked at it eagerly and let it run down over his head and cheeks and hands, and then he licked the dampness off the bars. he would have licked arya's fingers if she hadn't snatched them back. by the time she served the other two the same, a crowd had gathered to watch her. the mad huntsman will hear of this, a man threatened. he won't like it. no, he won't. he'll like this even less, then. anguy strung his longbow, slid an arrow from his quiver, nocked, drew, loosed. the fat man shuddered as the shaft drove up between his chins, but the cage would not let him fall. two more arrows ended the other two northmen. the only sound in the market square was the splash of falling water and the buzzing of flies. valar morghulis, arya thought. on the east side of the market square stood a modest inn with whitewashed walls and broken windows. half its roof had burnt off recently, but the hole had been patched over. above the door hung a wooden shingle painted as a peach, with a big bite taken out of it. they dismounted at the stables sitting catty-comer, and greenbeard bellowed for grooms. the buxom red-haired innkeep howled with pleasure at the sight of them, then promptly set to tweaking them. greenbeard, is it? or greybeard? mother take mercy, when did you get so old? lem, is that you? still wearing the same ratty cloak, are you? i know why you never wash it, i do. you're afraid all the piss will wash out and we'll see you're really a knight o' the kingsguard! and tom o' sevens, you randy old goat! you come to see that son o' yours? well, you're too late, he's off riding with that bloody huntsman. and don't tell me he's not yours! he hasn't got my voice, tom protested weakly. he's got your nose, though. aye, and t'other parts as well, to hear the girls talk. she spied gendry then, and pinched him on the check. look at this fine young ox. wait till alyce sees those arms. oh, and he blushes like a maid, too. well, alyce will fix that for you, boy, see if she don't. arya had never seen gendry turn so red. tansy, you leave the bull alone, he's a good lad, said tom sevenstrings. all we need from you is safe beds for a night. speak for yourself, singer. anguy slid his arm around a strapping young serving girl as freckly as he was. beds we got, said red-haired tansy. there's never been no lack o' beds at the peach. but you'll all climb in a tub first. last time you lot stayed under my roof you left your fleas behind. she poked greenbeard in the chest. and yours was green, too. you want food? if you can spare it, we won't say no, tom conceded. now when did you ever say no to anything, tom? the woman hooted. i'll roast some mutton for your friends, and an old dry rat for you. it's more than you deserve, but if you gargle me a song or three, might be i'll weaken. i always pity the afflicted. come on, come on. cass, lanna, put some kettles on. jyzene, help me get the clothes off them, we'll need to boil those too. she made good on all her threats. arya tried to tell them that she'd been bathed twice at acorn hall, not a fortnight past, but the red-haired woman was having none of it. two serving wenches carried her up the stairs bodily, arguing about whether she was a girl or a boy. the one called helly won, so the other had to fetch the hot water and scrub arya's back with a stiff bristly brush that almost took her skin off. then they stole all the clothes that lady smallwood had given her and dressed her up like one of sansa's dolls in linen and lace. but at least when they were done she got to go down and eat. as she sat in the common room in her stupid girl clothes, arya remembered what syrio forel had told her, the trick of looking and seeing what was there. when she looked, she saw more serving wenches than any inn could want, and most of them young and comely. and come evenfall, lots of men started coming and going at the peach. they did not linger long in the common room, not even when tom took out his woodharp and began to sing six maids in a pool. the wooden steps were old and steep, and creaked something fierce whenever one of the men took a girl upstairs. i bet this is a brothel, she whispered to gendry. you don't even know what a brothel is. i do so, she insisted. it's like an inn, with girls. he was turning red again. what are you doing here, then? he demanded. a brothel's no fit place for no bloody highborn lady, everybody knows that. one of the girls sat down on the bench beside him. who's a highborn lady? the little skinny one? she looked at arya and laughed. i'm a king's daughter myself. arya knew she was being mocked. you are not. well, i might be. when the girl shrugged, her gown slipped off one shoulder. they say king robert fucked my mother when he hid here, back before the battle. not that he didn't have all the other girls too, but leslyn says he liked my ma the best. the girl did have hair like the old king's, arya thought; a great thick mop of it, as black as coal. that doesn't mean anything, though. gendry has the same kind of hair too. lots of people have black hair. i'm named bella, the girl told gendry. for the battle. i bet i could ring your bell, too. you want to? no, he said gruffly. i bet you do. she ran a hand along his arm. i don't cost nothing to friends of thoros and the lightning lord. no, i said. gendry rose abruptly and stalked away from the table out into the night. bella turned to arya. don't he like girls? arya shrugged. he's just stupid. he likes to polish helmets and beat on swords with hammers. oh. bella tugged her gown back over her shoulder and went to talk with jack-be-lucky. before long she was sitting in his lap, giggling and drinking wine from his cup. greenbeard had two girls, one on each knee. anguy had vanished with his freckle- faced wench, and lem was gone as well. tom sevenstrings sat by the fire, singing, the maids that bloom in spring. arya sipped at the cup of watered wine the red-haired woman had allowed her, listening. across the square the dead men were rotting in their crow cages, but inside the peach everyone was jolly. except it seemed to her that some of them were laughing too hard, somehow. it would have been a good time to sneak away and steal a horse, but arya couldn't see how that would help her. she could only ride as far as the city gates. that captain would never let me pass, and if he did, harwin would come after me, or that huntsman with his dogs. she wished she had her map, so she could see how far stoney sept was from riverrun. by the time her cup was empty, arya was yawning. gendry hadn't come back. tom sevenstrings was singing two hearts that beat as one, and kissing a different girl at the end of every verse. in the comer by the window lem and harwin sat talking to red-haired tansy in low voices. ... spent the night in jaime's cell, she heard the woman say. her and this other wench, the one who slew renly. all three o' them together, and come the morn lady catelyn cut him loose for love. she gave a throaty chuckle. it's not true, arya thought. she never would. she felt sad and angry and lonely, all at once. an old man sat down beside her. well, aren't you a pretty little peach? his breath smelled near as foul as the dead men in the cages, and his little pig eyes were crawling up and down her. does my sweet peach have a name? for half a heartbeat she forgot who she was supposed to be. she wasn't any peach, but she couldn't be arya stark either, not here with some smelly drunk she did not know. i'm... she's my sister. gendry put a heavy hand on the old man's shoulder, and squeezed. leave her be. the man turned, spoiling for a quarrel, but when he saw gendry' s size he thought better of it. your sister, is she? what kind of brother are you? i'd never bring no sister of mine to the peach, that i wouldn't. he got up from the bench and moved off muttering, in search of a new friend. why did you say that? arya hopped to her feet. you're not my brother. that's right, he said angrily. i'm too bloody lowborn to be kin to m'lady high. arya was taken aback by the fury in his voice. that's not the way i meant it. yes it is. he sat down on the bench, cradling a cup of wine between his hands. go away. i want to drink this wine in peace. then maybe i'll go find that black- haired girl and ring her bell for her. but... i said, go away. m'lady. arya whirled and left him there. a stupid bullheaded bastard boy, that's all he is. he could ring all the bells he wanted, it was nothing to her. their sleeping room was at the top of the stairs, under the eaves. maybe the peach had no lack of beds, but there was only one to spare for the likes of them. it was a big bed, though. it filled the whole room, just about, and the musty straw-stuffed mattress looked large enough for all of them, just now, though, she had it to herself. her real clothes were hanging from a peg on the wall, between gendry's stuff and lem's. arya took off the linen and lace, pulled her tunic over her head, climbed up into the bed, and burrowed under the blankets. queen cersei, she whispered into the pillow. king joffrey, ser ilyn, ser meryn. dunsen, raff, and polliver. the tickler, the hound, and ser gregor the mountain. she liked to mix up the order of the names sometimes. it helped her remember who they were and what they'd done. maybe some of them are dead, she thought. maybe they're in iron cages someplace, and the crows are picking out their eyes. sleep came as quick as she closed her eyes. she dreamed of wolves that night, stalking through a wet wood with the smell of rain and rot and blood thick in the air. only they were good smells in the dream, and arya knew she had nothing to fear. she was strong and swift and fierce, and her pack was all around her, her brothers and her sisters. they ran down a frightened horse together, tore its throat out, and feasted. and when the moon broke through the clouds, she threw back her head and howled. but when the day came, she woke to the barking of dogs. arya sat up yawning. gendry was stirring on her left and lem lemoncloak snoring loudly to her right, but the baying outside all but drowned him out. there must be half a hundred dogs out there. she crawled from under the blankets and hopped over lem, tom, and jack-be-lucky to the window. when she opened the shutters wide, wind and wet and cold all came flooding in together. the day was grey and overcast. down below, in the square, the dogs were barking, running in circles, growling and howling. there was a pack of them, great black mastiffs and lean wolfhounds and black-and-white sheepdogs and kinds arya did not know, shaggy brindled beasts with long yellow teeth. between the inn and the fountain, a dozen riders sat astride their horses, watching the townsmen open the fat man's cage and tug his arm until his swollen corpse spilled out onto the ground. the dogs were at him at once, tearing chunks of flesh off his bones. arya heard one of the riders laugh. here's your new castle, you bloody lannister bastard, he said. a little snug for the likes o' you, but we'll squeeze you in, never fret. beside him a prisoner sat sullen, with coils of hempen rope tight around his wrists. some of the townsmen were throwing dung at him, but he never flinched. you'll rot in them cages, his captor was shouting. the crows will be picking out your eyes while we're spending all that good lannister gold o' yours! and when them crows are done, we'll send what's left o' you to your bloody brother. though i doubt he'll know you. the noise had woken half the peach. gendry squeezed into the window beside arya, and tom stepped up behind them naked as his name day. what's all that bloody shouting? lem complained from bed. a man's trying to get some bloody sleep. where's greenbeard? tom asked him. abed with tansy, lem said. why? best find him. archer too. the mad huntsman's come back, with another man for the cages. lannister, said arya. i heard him say lannister. have they caught the kingslayer? gendry wanted to know. down in the square, a thrown stone caught the captive on the cheek, turning his head. not the kingslayer, arya thought, when she saw his face. the gods had heard her prayers after all. her eyes had grown accustomed to blackness. when harwin pulled the hood offher head, the ruddy glare inside the hollow hill made arya blink like some stupid owl. a huge firepit had been dug in the center of the earthen floor, and its flames rose swirling and crackling toward the smoke-stained ceiling. the walls were equal parts stone and soil, with huge white roots twisting through them like a thousand slow pale snakes. people were emerging from between those roots as she watched; edging out from the shadows for a look at the captives, stepping from the mouths of pitch-black tunnels, popping out of crannies and crevices on all sides, in one place on the far side of the fire, the roots formed a kind of stairway up to a hollow in the earth where a man sat almost lost in the tangle of weirwood. lem unhooded gendry. what is this place? he asked. an old place, deep and secret. a refuge where neither wolves nor lions come prowling. neither wolves nor lions. arya's skin prickled. she remembered the dream she'd had, and the taste of blood when she tore the man's arm from his shoulder. big as the fire was, the cave was bigger; it was hard to tell where it began and where it ended. the tunnel mouths might have been two feet deep or gone on two miles. arya saw men and women and little children, all of them watching her warily. greenbeard said, here's the wizard, skinny squirrel. you'll get your answers now. he pointed toward the fire, where tom sevenstrings stood talking to a tall thin man with oddments of old armor buckled on over his ratty pink robes. that can't be thoros of myr. arya remembered the red priest as fat, with a smooth face and a shiny bald head. this man had a droopy face and a full head of shaggy grey hair. something tom said made him look at her, and arya thought he was about to come over to her. only then the mad huntsman appeared, shoving his captive down into the light, and she and gendry were forgotten. the huntsman had turned out to be a stocky man in patched tan leathers, balding and weak- chinned and quarrelsome. at stoney sept she had thought that lem and greenbeard might be torn to pieces when they faced him at the crow cages to claim his captive for the lightning lord. the hounds had been all around them, sniffing and snarling. but tom o' sevens soothed them with his playing, tansy marched across the square with her apron full of bones and fatty mutton, and lem pointed out anguy in the brothel window, standing with an arrow notched. the mad huntsman had cursed them all for lickspittles, but finally he had agreed to take his prize to lord beric for judgment. they had bound his wrists with hempen rope, strung a noose around his neck, and pulled a sack down over his head, but even so there was danger in the man. arya could feel it across the cave. thoros - if that was thoros - met captor and captive halfway to the fire. how did you take him? the priest asked. the dogs caught the scent. he was sleeping off a drunk under a willow tree, if you believe it. betrayed by his own kind. thoros turned to the prisoner and yanked his hood off. welcome to our humble hall, dog. it is not so grand as robert's throne room, but the company is better. the shifting flames painted sandor clegane's burned face with orange shadows, so he looked even more terrible than he did in daylight. when he pulled at the rope that bound his wrists, flakes of dry blood fell off. the hound's mouth twitched. i know you, he said to thoros. you did. in melees, you'd curse my flaming sword, though thrice i overthrew you with it. thoros of myr. you used to shave your head. to betoken a humble heart, but in truth my heart was vain. besides, i lost my razor in the woods. the priest slapped his belly. i am less than i was, but more. a year in the wild will melt the flesh off a man. would that i could find a tailor to take in my skin. i might look young again, and pretty maids would shower me with kisses. only the blind ones, priest. the outlaws hooted, none so loud as thoros. just so. yet i am not the false priest you knew. the lord of light has woken in my heart. many powers long asleep are waking, and there are forces moving in the land. i have seen them in my flames. the hound was unimpressed. bugger your flames. and you as well. he looked around at the others. you keep queer company for a holy man. these are my brothers, thoros said simply. lem lemoncloak pushed forward. he and greenbeard were the only men there tall enough to look the hound in the eye. be careful how you bark, dog. we hold your life in our hands. best wipe the shit off your fingers, then. the hound laughed. how long have you been hiding in this hole? anguy the archer bristled at the suggestion of cowardice. ask the goat if we've hidden, hound. ask your brother. ask the lord of leeches. we've bloodied them all. you lot? don't make me laugh. you look more swineherds than soldiers. some of us was swineherds, said a short man arya did not know. and some was tanners or singers or masons. but that was before the war come. when we left king's landing we were men of winterfell and men of darry and men of blackhaven, mallery men and wylde men. we were knights and squires and men-at-arms, lords and commoners, bound together only by our purpose. the voice came from the man seated amongst the weirwood roots halfway up the wall. six score of us set out to bring the king's justice to your brother. the speaker was descending the tangle of steps toward the floor. six score brave men and true, led by a fool in a starry cloak. a scarecrow of a man, he wore a ragged black cloak speckled with stars and an iron breastplate dinted by a hundred battles. a thicket of red-gold hair hid most of his face, save for a bald spot above his left ear where his head had been smashed in. more than eighty of our company are dead now, but others have taken up the swords that fell from their hands. when he reached the floor, the outlaws moved aside to let him pass. one of his eyes was gone, arya saw, the flesh about the socket scarred and puckered, and he had a dark black ring all around his neck. with their help, we fight on as best we can, for robert and the realm. robert? rasped sandor clegane, incredulous. ned stark sent us out, said pothelmed jack-be-lucky, but he was sitting the iron throne when he gave us our commands, so we were never truly his men, but robert's. robert is the king of the worms now. is that why you're down in the earth, to keep his court for him? the king is dead, the scarecrow knight admitted, but we are still king's men, though the royal banner we bore was lost at the mummer's ford when your brother's butchers fell upon us. he touched his breast with a fist. robert is slain, but his realm remains. and we defend her. her? the hound snorted. is she your mother, dondarrion? or your whore? dondarrion? beric dondarrion had been handsome; sansa's friend jeyne had fallen in love with him. even jeyne poole was not so blind as to think this man was fair. yet when arya looked at him again, she saw it; the remains of a forked purple lightning bolt on the cracked enamel of his breastplate. rocks and trees and rivers, that's what your realm is made of, the hound was saying. do the rocks need defending? robert wouldn't have thought so. if he couldn't fuck it, fight it, or drink it, it bored him, and so would you... you brave companions. outrage swept the hollow hill. call us that name again, dog, and you'll swallow that tongue. lem drew his longsword. the hound stared at the blade with contempt. here's a brave man, baring steel on a bound captive. untie me, why don't you? we'll see how brave you are then. he glanced at the mad huntsman behind him. how about you? or did you leave all your courage in your kennels? no, but i should have left you in a crow cage. the huntsman drew a knife. i might still. the hound laughed in his face. we are brothers here, thoros of myr declared. holy brothers, sworn to the realm, to our god, and to each other. the brotherhood without banners. tom sevenstrings plucked a string. the knights of the hollow hill. knights? clegane made the word a sneer. dondarrion's a knight, but the rest of you are the sorriest lot of outlaws and broken men i've ever seen. i shit better men than you. any knight can make a knight, said the scarecrow that was beric dondarrion, and every man you see before you has felt a sword upon his shoulder. we are the forgotten fellowship. send me on my way and i'll forget you too, clegane rasped. but if you mean to murder me, then bloody well get on with it. you took my sword, my horse, and my gold, so take my life and be done with it... but spare me this pious bleating. you will die soon enough, dog, promised thoros, but it shan't be murder, only justice. aye, said the mad huntsman, and a kinder fate than you deserve for all your kind have done. lions, you call yourselves. at sherrer and the mummer's ford, girls of six and seven years were raped, and babes still on the breast were cut in two while their mothers watched. no lion ever killed so cruel. i was not at sherrer, nor the mummer's ford, the hound told him. lay your dead children at some other door. thoros answered him. do you deny that house clegane was built upon dead children? i saw them lay prince aegon and princess rhaenys before the iron throne. by rights your arms should bear two bloody infants in place of those ugly dogs. the hound's mouth twitched. do you take me for my brother? is being born clegane a crime? murder is a crime. who did i murder? lord lothar mallery and ser gladden wylde, said harwin. my brothers lister and lennocks, declared jack-be-lucky. goodman beck and mudge the miller's son, from donnelwood, an old woman called from the shadows. merriman's widow, who loved so sweet, added greenbeard. them septons at sludgy pond. ser andrey charlton. his squire lucas roote. every man, woman, and child in fieldstone and mousedown mill. lord and lady deddings, that was so rich. tom sevenstrings took up the count. alyn of winterfell, joth quickbow, little matt and his sister randa, anvil ryn. ser ormond. ser dudley. pate of mory, pate of lancewood, old pate, and pate of shermer's grove. blind wyl the whittler. goodwife maerie. maerie the whore. becca the baker. ser raymun darry, lord darry, young lord darry. the bastard of bracken. fletcher will. harsley. goodwife nolla - enough. the hound's face was tight with anger. you're making noise. these names mean nothing. who were they? people, said lord beric. people great and small, young and old. good people and bad people, who died on the points of lannister spears or saw their bellies opened by lannister swords. it wasn't my sword in their bellies. any man who says it was is a bloody liar. you serve the lannisters of casterly rock, said thoros. once. me and thousands more. is each of us guilty of the crimes of the others? clegane spat. might be you are knights after all. you lie like knights, maybe you murder like knights. lem and jack-be-lucky began to shout at him, but dondarrion raised a hand for silence. say what you mean, clegane. a knight's a sword with a horse. the rest, the vows and the sacred oils and the lady's favors, they're silk ribbons tied round the sword. maybe the sword's prettier with ribbons hanging off it, but it will kill you just as dead. well, bugger your ribbons, and shove your swords up your arses. i'm the same as you. the only difference is, i don't lie about what i am. so, kill me, but don't call me a murderer while you stand there telling each other that your shit don't stink. you hear me? arya squirted past greenbeard so fast he never saw her. you are a murderer! she screamed. you killed mycah, don't say you never did. you murdered him! the hound stared at her with no flicker of recognition. and who was this mycah, boy? i'm not a boy! but mycah was. he was a butcher's boy and you killed him. jory said you cut him near in half, and he never even had a sword. she could feel them looking at her now, the women and the children and the men who called themselves the knights of the hollow hill. who's this now? someone asked. the hound answered. seven hells. the little sister. the brat who tossed joff 's pretty sword in the river. he gave a bark of laughter. don't you know you're dead? no, you're dead, she threw back at him. harwin took her arm to draw her back as lord beric said, the girl has named you a murderer. do you deny killing this butcher's boy, mycah? the big man shrugged. i was joffrey's sworn shield. the butcher's boy attacked a prince of the blood. that's a lie! arya squirmed in harwin's grip. it was me. i hit joffrey and threw lion's paw in the river. mycah just ran away, like i told him. did you see the boy attack prince joffrey? lord beric dondarrion asked the hound. i heard it from the royal lips. it's not my place to question princes. clegane jerked his hands toward arya. this one's own sister told the same tale when she stood before your precious robert. sansa's just a liar, arya said, furious at her sister all over again. it wasn't like she said. it wasn't. thoros drew lord beric aside. the two men stood talking in low whispers while arya seethed. they have to kill him. i prayed for him to die, hundreds and hundreds of times. beric dondarrion turned back to the hound. you stand accused of murder, but no one here knows the truth or falsehood of the charge, so it is not for us to judge you. only the lord of light may do that now. i sentence you to trial by battle. the hound frowned suspiciously, as if he did not trust his ears. are you a fool or a madman? neither. i am a just lord. prove your innocence with a blade, and you shall be free to go. no, arya cried, before harwin covered her mouth. no, they can't, he'll go free. the hound was deadly with a sword, everyone knew that. he'll laugh at them, she thought. and so he did, a long rasping laugh that echoed off the cave walls, a laugh choking with contempt. so who will it be? he looked at lem lemoncloak. the brave man in the piss- yellow cloak? no? how about you, huntsman? you've kicked dogs before, try me. he saw greenbeard. you're big enough, tyrosh, step forward. or do you mean to make the little girl fight me herself? he laughed again. come on, who wants to die? it's me you'll face, said lord beric dondarrion. arya remembered all the tales. he can't be killed, she thought, hoping against hope. the mad huntsman sliced apart the ropes that bound sandor clegane's hands together. i'll need sword and armor. the hound rubbed a torn wrist. your sword you shall have, declared lord beric, but your innocence must be your armor. clegane's mouth twitched. my innocence against your breastplate, is that the way of it? ned, help me remove my breastplate. arya got goosebumps when lord beric said her father's name, but this ned was only a boy, a fair-haired squire no more than ten or twelve. he stepped up quickly to undo the clasps that fastened the battered steel about the marcher lord. the quilting beneath was rotten with age and sweat, and fell away when the metal was pulled loose. gendry sucked in his breath. mother have mercy. lord beric 's ribs were outlined starkly beneath his skin. a puckered crater scarred his breast just above his left nipple, and when he turned to call for sword and shield, arya saw a matching scar upon his back. the lance went through him. the hound had seen it too. is he scared? arya wanted him to be scared before he died, as scared as mycah must have been. ned fetched lord beric his swordbelt and a long black surcoat. it was meant to be worn over armor, so it draped his body loosely, but across it crackled the forked purple lightning of his house. he unsheathed his sword and gave the belt back to his squire. thoros brought the hound his swordbelt. does a dog have honor? the priest asked. lest you think to cut your way free of here, or seize some child for a hostage... anguy, dennet, kyle, feather him at the first sign of treachery. only when the three bowmen had notched their shafts did thoros hand clegane the belt. the hound ripped the sword free and threw away the scabbard. the mad huntsman gave him his oaken shield, all studded with iron and painted yellow, the three black dogs of clegane emblazoned upon it. the boy ned helped lord beric with his own shield, so hacked and battered that the purple lightning and the scatter of stars upon it had almost been obliterated. but when the hound made to step toward his foe, thoros of myr stopped him. first we pray. he turned toward the fire and lifted his arms. lord of light, look down upon us. all around the cave, the brotherhood without banners lifted their own voices in response. lord of light, defend us. lord of light, protect us in the darkness. lord of light, shine your face upon us. light your flame among us, r'hllor, said the red priest. show us the truth or falseness of this man. strike him down if he is guilty, and give strength to his sword if he is true. lord of light, give us wisdom. for the night is dark, the others chanted, harwin and anguy loud as all the rest, and full of terrors. this cave is dark too, said the hound, but i'm the terror here. i hope your god's a sweet one, dondarrion. you're going to meet him shortly. unsmiling, lord beric laid the edge of his longsword against the palm of his left hand, and drew it slowly down. blood ran dark from the gash he made, and washed over the steel. and then the sword took fire. arya heard gendry whisper a prayer. burn in seven hells, the hound cursed. you, and thoros too. he threw a glance at the red priest. when i'm done with him you'll be next, myr. every word you say proclaims your guilt, dog, answered thoros, while lem and greenbeard and jack-be-lucky shouted threats and curses. lord beric himself waited silent, calm as still water, his shield on his left arm and his sword burning in his right hand. kill him, arya thought, please, you have to kill him. lit from below, his face was a death mask, his missing eye a red and angry wound. the sword was aflame from point to crossguard, but dondarrion seemed not to feel the heat. he stood so still he might have been carved of stone. but when the hound charged him, he moved fast enough. the flaming sword leapt up to meet the cold one, long streamers of fire trailing in its wake like the ribbons the hound had spoken of. steel rang on steel. no sooner was his first slash blocked than clegane made another, but this time lord beric 's shield got in the way, and wood chips flew from the force of the blow. hard and fast the cuts came, from low and high, from right and left and each one dondarrion blocked. the flames swirled about his sword and left red and yellow ghosts to mark its passage. each move lord beric made fanned them and made them burn the brighter, until it seemed as though the lightning lord stood within a cage of fire. is it wildfire? arya asked gendry. no. this is different. this is... ... magic? she finished as the hound edged back. now it was lord beric attacking, filling the air with ropes of fire, driving the bigger man back on his heels. clegane caught one blow high on his shield, and a painted dog lost a head. he countercut, and dondarrion interposed his own shield and launched a fiery backslash. the outlaw brotherhood shouted on their leader. he's yours! arya heard, and at him! at him! at him! the hound parried a cut at his head, grimacing as the heat of the flames beat against his face. he grunted and cursed and reeled away. lord beric gave him no respite. hard on the big man's heels he followed, his arm never still. the swords clashed and sprang apart and clashed again, splinters flew from the lightning shield while swirling flames kissed the dogs once, and twice, and thrice. the hound moved to his right, but dondarrion blocked him with a quick sidestep and drove him back the other way... toward the sullen red blaze of the firepit. clegane gave ground until he felt the heat at his back. a quick glance over his shoulder showed him what was behind him, and almost cost him his head when lord beric attacked anew. arya could see the whites of sandor clegane's eyes as he bulled his way forward again. three steps up and two back, a move to the left that lord beric blocked, two more forward and one back, clang and clang, and the big oaken shields took blow after blow after blow. the hound's lank dark hair was plastered to his brow in a sheen of sweat. wine sweat, arya thought, remembering that he'd been taken drunk. she thought she could see the beginnings of fear wake in his eyes. he's going to lose, she told herself, exulting, as lord beric's flaming sword whirled and slashed, in one wild flurry, the lightning lord took back all the ground the hound had gained, sending clegane staggering to the very edge of the firepit once more. he is, he is, he's going to die. she stood on her toes for a better look. bloody bastard! the hound screamed as he felt the fire licking against the back of his thighs. he charged, swinging the heavy sword harder and harder, trying to smash the smaller man down with brute force, to break blade or shield or arm. but the flames of dondarrion's parries snapped at his eyes, and when the hound jerked away from them, his foot went out from under him and he staggered to one knee. at once lord beric closed, his downcut screaming through the air trailing permons of fire. panting from exertion, clegane jerked his shield up over his head just in time, and the cave rang with the loud crack of splintering oak. his shield is afire, gendry said in a hushed voice. arya saw it in the same instant. the flames had spread across the chipped yellow paint, and the three black dogs were engulfed. sandor clegane had fought his way back to his feet with a reckless counterattack. not until lord beric retreated a pace did the hound seem to realize that the fire that roared so near his face was his own shield, burning. with a shout of revulsion, he hacked down savagely on the broken oak, completing its destruction. the shield shattered, one piece of it spinning away, still afire, while the other clung stubbornly to his forearm. his efforts to free himself only fanned the flames. his sleeve caught, and now his whole left arm was ablaze. finish him! greenbeard urged lord beric, and other voices took up the chant of guilty! arya shouted with the rest. guilty, guilty, kill him, guilty! smooth as summer silk, lord beric slid close to make an end of the man before him. the hound gave a rasping scream, raised his sword in both hands and brought it crashing down with all his strength. lord beric blocked the cut easily... noooooo, arya shrieked. ... but the burning sword snapped in two, and the hound's cold steel plowed into lord beric 's flesh where his shoulder joined his neck and clove him clean down to the breastbone. the blood came rushing out in a hot black gush. sandor clegane jerked backward, still burning. he ripped the remnants of his shield off and flung them away with a curse, then rolled in the dirt to smother the fire running along his arm. lord beric 's knees folded slowly, as if for prayer. when his mouth opened only blood came out. the hound's sword was still in him as he toppled face forward. the dirt drank his blood. beneath the hollow hill there was no sound but the soft crackling of flames and the whimper the hound made when he tried to rise. arya could only think of mycah and all the stupid prayers she'd prayed for the hound to die. if there were gods, why didn't lord beric win? she knew the hound was guilty. please, sandor clegane rasped, cradling his arm. i'm burned. help me. someone. help me. he was crying. please. arya looked at him in astonishment. he's crying like a little baby, she thought. melly, see to his burns, said thoros. lem, jack, help me with lord beric. ned, you'd best come too. the red priest wrenched the hound's sword from the body of his fallen lord and thrust the point of it down in the blood-soaked earth. lem slid his big hands under dondarrion's arms, while jack-be-lucky took his feet. they carried him around the firepit, into the darkness of one of the tunnels. thoros and the boy ned followed after. the mad huntsman spat. i say we take him back to stoney sept and put him in a crow cage. yes, arya said. he murdered mycah. he did. such an angry squirrel, murmured greenbeard. harwin sighed. r'hllor has judged him innocent. who's rulore? she couldn't even say it. the lord of light. thoros has taught us - she didn't care what thoros had taught them. she yanked greenbeard's dagger from its sheath and spun away before he could catch her. gendry made a grab for her as well, but she had always been too fast for gendry. tom sevenstrings and some woman were helping the hound to his feet. the sight of his arm shocked her speechless. there was a strip of pink where the leather strap had clung, but above and below the flesh was cracked and red and bleeding from elbow to wrist. when his eyes met hers, his mouth twitched. you want me dead that bad? then do it, wolf girl. shove it in. it's cleaner than fire. clegane tried to stand, but as he moved a piece of burned flesh sloughed right off his arm, and his knees went out from under him. tom caught him by his good arm and held him up. his arm, arya thought, and his face. but he was the hound. he deserved to burn in a fiery hell. the knife felt heavy in her hand. she gripped it tighter. you killed mycah, she said once more, daring him to deny it. tell them. you did. you did. i did. his whole face twisted. i rode him down and cut him in half, and laughed. i watched them beat your sister bloody too, watched them cut your father's head off. lem grabbed her wrist and twisted, wrenching the dagger away. she kicked at him, but he would not give it back. you go to hell, hound, she screamed at sandor clegane in helpless empty-handed rage. you just go to hell! he has, said a voice scarce stronger than a whisper. when arya turned, lord beric dondarrion was standing behind her, his bloody hand clutching thoros by the shoulder. the man on the roof was the first to die. he was crouched down by the chimney two hundred yards away, no more than a vague shadow in the predawn gloom, but as the sky began to lighten he stirred, stretched, and stood. anguy's arrow took him in the chest. he tumbled bonelessly down the steep slate pitch, and fell in front of the septry door. the mummers had posted two guards there, but their torch left them night blind, and the outlaws had crept in close. kyle and notch let fly together. one man went down with an arrow through his throat, the other through his belly. the second man dropped the torch, and the flames licked up at him. he screamed as his clothes took fire, and that was the end of stealth. thoros gave a shout, and the outlaws attacked in earnest. arya watched from atop her horse, on the crest of the wooded ridge that overlooked the septry, mill, brewhouse, and stables and the desolation of weeds, burnt trees, and mud that surrounded them. the trees were mostly bare now, and the few withered brown leaves that still clung to the branches did little to obstruct her view. lord beric had left beardless dick and mudge to guard them. arya hated being left behind like she was some stupid child, but at least gendry had been kept back as well. she knew better than to try and argue. this was battle, and in battle you had to obey. the eastern horizon glowed gold and pink, and overhead a half moon peeked out through low scuttling clouds. the wind blew cold, and arya could hear the rush of water and the creak of the mill's great wooden waterwheel. there was a smell of rain in the dawn air, but no drops were falling yet. flaming arrows flew through the morning mists, trailing pale ribbons of fire, and thudded into the wooden walls of the septry. a few smashed through shuttered windows, and soon enough thin tendrils of smoke were rising between the broken shutters. two mummers came bursting from the septry side by side, axes in their hands. anguy and the other archers were waiting. one axeman died at once. the other managed to duck, so the shaft ripped through his shoulder. he staggered on, till two more arrows found him, so quickly it was hard to say which had struck first. the long shafts punched through his breastplate as if it had been made of silk instead of steel. he fell heavily. anguy had arrows tipped with bodkins as well as broadheads. a bodkin could pierce even heavy plate. i'm going to learn to shoot a bow, arya thought. she loved sword fighting, but she could see how arrows were good too. flames were creeping up the west wall of the septry, and thick smoke poured through a broken window. a myrish crossbowman poked his head out a different window, got off a bolt, and ducked down to rewind. she could hear fighting from the stables as well, shouts well mingled with the screams of horses and the clang of steel. kill them all, she thought fiercely. she bit her lip so hard she tasted blood. kill every single one. the crossbowman appeared again, but no sooner had he loosed than three arrows hissed past his head. one rattled off his helm. he vanished, bow and all. arya could see flames in several of the second-story windows. between the smoke and the morning mists, the air was a haze of blowing black and white. anguy and the other bowmen were creeping closer, the better to find targets. then the septry erupted, the mummers boiling out like angry ants. two ibbenese rushed through the door with shaggy brown shields held high before them, and behind them came a dothraki with a great curved arakh and bells in his braid, and behind him three volantene sellswords covered with fierce tattoos. others were climbing out windows and leaping to the ground. arya saw a man take an arrow through the chest with one leg across a windowsill, and heard his scream as he fell. the smoke was thickening. quarrels and arrows sped back and forth. watty fell with a grunt, his bow slipping from his hand. kyle was trying to nock another shaft to his string when a man in black mail flung a spear through his belly. she heard lord beric shout. from out of the ditches and trees the rest of his band came pouring, steel in hand. arya saw lem's bright yellow cloak flapping behind him as he rode down the man who'd killed kyle. thoros and lord beric were everywhere, their swords swirling fire. the red priest hacked at a hide shield until it flew to pieces, while his horse kicked the man in the face. a dothraki screamed and charged the lightning lord, and the flaming sword leapt out to meet his arakh. the blades kissed and spun and kissed again. then the dothraki' s hair was ablaze, and a moment later he was dead. she spied ned too, fighting at the lightning lord's side. it's not fair, he's only a little older than me, they should have let me fight. the battle did not last very long. the brave companions still on their feet soon died, or threw down their swords. two of the dothraki managed to regain their horses and flee, but only because lord beric let them go. let them carry the word back to harrenhal, he said, with flaming sword in hand. it will give the leech lord and his goat a few more sleepless nights. jack-be-lucky, harwin, and merrit o' moontown braved the burning septry to search for captives. they emerged from the smoke and flames a few moments later with eight brown brothers, one so weak that merrit had to carry him across a shoulder. there was a septon with them as well, round-shouldered and balding, but he wore black chainmail over his grey robes. found him hiding under the cellar steps, said jack, coughing. thoros smiled to see him. you are utt. septon utt. a man of god. what god would want the likes o' you? growled lem. i have sinned, the septon wailed. i know, i know. forgive me, father. oh, grievously have i sinned. arya remembered septon utt from her time at harrenhal. shagwell the fool said he always wept and prayed for forgiveness after he'd killed his latest boy. sometimes he even made the other mummers scourge him. they all thought that was very funny. lord beric slammed his sword into its scabbard, quenching the flames. give the dying the gift of mercy and bind the others hand and foot for trial, he commanded, and it was done. the trials went swiftly. various of the outlaws came forward to tell of things the brave companions had done; towns and villages sacked, crops burned, women raped and murdered, men maimed and tortured. a few spoke of the boys that septon utt had carried off. the septon wept and prayed through it all. i am a weak reed, he told lord beric. i pray to the warrior for strength, but the gods made me weak. have mercy on my weakness. the boys, the sweet boys... i never mean to hurt them... septon utt soon dangled beneath a tall elm, swinging slowly by the neck, as naked as his name day. the other brave companions followed one by one. a few fought, kicking and struggling as the noose was tightened round their throats. one of the crossbowmen kept shouting, i soldier, i soldier, in a thick myrish accent. another offered to lead his captors to gold; a third told them what a good outlaw he would make. each was stripped and bound and hanged in turn. tom sevenstrings played a dirge for them on his woodharp, and thoros implored the lord of light to roast their souls until the end of time. a mummer tree, arya thought as she watched them dangle, their pale skins painted a sullen red by the flames of the burning septry. already the crows were coming, appearing out of nowhere. she heard them croaking and cackling at one another, and wondered what they were saying. arya had not feared septon utt as much as she did rorge and biter and some of the others still at harrenhal, but she was glad that he was dead all the same. they should have hanged the hound too, or chopped his head off. instead, to her disgust, the outlaws had treated sandor clegane's burned arm, restored his sword and horse and armor, and set him free a few miles from the hollow hill. all they'd taken was his gold. the septry soon collapsed in a roar of smoke and flame, its walls no longer able to support the weight of its heavy slate roof. the eight brown brothers watched with resignation. they were all that remained, explained the eldest, who wore a small iron hammer on a thong about his neck to signify his devotion to the smith. before the war we were four-and- forty, and this was a prosperous place. we had a dozen milk cows and a bull, a hundred beehives, a vineyard and an apple arbor. but when the lions came through they took all our wine and milk and honey, slaughtered the cows, and put our vineyard to the torch. after that... i have lost count of our visitors. this false septon was only the latest. there was one monster... we gave him all our silver, but he was certain we were hiding gold, so his men killed us one by one to make elder brother talk. how did the eight of you survive? asked anguy the archer. i am ashamed, the old man said. it was me. when it came my turn to die, i told them where our gold was hidden. brother, said thoros of myr, the only shame was not telling them at once. the outlaws sheltered that night in the brewhouse beside the little river. their hosts had a cache of food hidden beneath the floor of the stables, so they shared a simple supper; oaten bread, onions, and a watery cabbage soup tasting faintly of garlic. arya found a slice of carrot floating in her bowl, and counted herself lucky. the brothers never asked the outlaws for names. they know, arya thought. how could they not? lord beric wore the lightning bolt on breastplate, shield, and cloak, and thoros his red robes, or what remained of them. one brother, a young novice, was bold enough to tell the red priest not to pray to his false god so long as he was under their roof. bugger that, said lem lemoncloak. he's our god too, and you owe us for your bloody lives. and what's false about him? might be your smith can mend a broken sword, but can he heal a broken man? enough, lem, lord beric commanded. beneath their roof we will honor their rules. the sun will not cease to shine if we miss a prayer or two, thoros agreed mildly. i am one who would know. lord beric himself did not eat. arya had never seen him eat, though from time to time he took a cup of wine. he did not seem to sleep, either. his good eye would often close, as if from weariness, but when you spoke to him it would flick open again at once. the marcher lord was still clad in his ratty black cloak and dented breastplate with its chipped enamel lightning. he even slept in that breastplate. the dull black steel hid the terrible wound the hound had given him, the same way his thick woolen scarf concealed the dark ring about his throat. but nothing hid his broken head, all caved in at the temple, or the raw red pit that was his missing eye, or the shape of the skull beneath his face. arya looked at him warily, remembering all the tales told of him in harrenhal. lord beric seemed to sense her fear. he turned his head, and beckoned her closer. do i frighten you, child? no. she chewed her lip. only... well... i thought the hound had killed you, but... a wound, said lem lemoncloak. a grievous wound, aye, but thoros healed it. there's never been no better healer. lord beric gazed at lem with a queer look in his good eye and no look at all in the other, only scars and dried blood. no better healer, he agreed wearily. lem, past time to change the watch, i'd think. see to it, if you'd be so good. aye, m'lord. lem's big yellow cloak swirled behind him as he strode out into the windy night. even brave men blind themselves sometimes, when they are afraid to see, lord beric said when lem was gone. thoros, how many times have you brought me back now? the red priest bowed his head. it is r'hllor who brings you back, my lord. the lord of light. i am only his instrument. how many times? lord beric insisted. six, thoros said reluctantly. and each time is harder. you have grown reckless, my lord. is death so very sweet? sweet? no, my friend. not sweet. then do not court it so. lord tywin leads from the rear. lord stannis as well. you would be wise to do the same. a seventh death might mean the end of both of us. lord beric touched the spot above his left ear where his temple was caved in. here is where ser burton crakehall broke helm and head with a blow of his mace. he unwound his scarf, exposing the black bruise that encircled his neck. here the mark the manticore made at rushing falls. he seized a poor beekeeper and his wife, thinking they were mine, and let it be known far and wide that he would hang them both unless i gave myself up to him. when i did he hanged them anyway, and me on the gibbet between them. he lifted a finger to the raw red pit of his eye. here is where the mountain thrust his dirk through my visor. a weary smile brushed his lips. that's thrice i have died at the hands of house clegane. you would think that i might have learned... it was a jest, arya knew, but thoros did not laugh. he put a hand on lord beric's shoulder. best not to dwell on it. can i dwell on what i scarce remember? i held a castle on the marches once, and there was a woman i was pledged to marry, but i could not find that castle today, nor tell you the color of that woman's hair. who knighted me, old friend? what were my favorite foods? it all fades. sometimes i think i was born on the bloody grass in that grove of ash, with the taste of fire in my mouth and a hole in my chest. are you my mother, thoros? arya stared at the myrish priest, all shaggy hair and pink rags and bits of old armor. grey stubble covered his cheeks and the sagging skin beneath his chin. he did not look much like the wizards in old nan's stories, but even so... could you bring back a man without a head? arya asked. just the once, not six times. could you? i have no magic, child. only prayers. that first time, his lordship had a hole right through him and blood in his mouth, i knew there was no hope. so when his poor torn chest stopped moving, i gave him the good god's own kiss to send him on his way. i filled my mouth with fire and breathed the flames inside him, down his throat to lungs and heart and soul. the last kiss it is called, and many a time i saw the old priests bestow it on the lord's servants as they died. i had given it a time or two myself, as all priests must. but never before had i felt a dead man shudder as the fire filled him, nor seen his eyes come open. it was not me who raised him, my lady. it was the lord. r'hllor is not done with him yet. life is warmth, and warmth is fire, and fire is god's and god's alone. arya felt tears well in her eyes. thoros used a lot of words, but all they meant was no, that much she understood. your father was a good man, lord beric said. harwin has told me much of him. for his sake, i would gladly forgo your ransom, but we need the gold too desperately. she chewed her lip. that's true, i guess. he had given the hound's gold to greenbeard and the huntsman to buy provisions south of the mander, she knew. the last harvest burned, this one is drowning, and winter will soon be on us, she had heard him say when he sent them off. the smallfolk need grain and seed, and we need blades and horses. too many of my men ride rounseys, drays, and mules against foes mounted on coursers and destriers. arya didn't know how much robb would pay for her, though. he was a king now, not the boy she'd left at winterfell with snow melting in his hair. and if he knew the things she'd done, the stableboy and the guard at harrenhal and all what if my brother doesn't want to ransom me? why would you think that? asked lord beric. well, arya said, my hair's messy and my nails are dirty and my feet are all hard. robb wouldn't care about that, probably, but her mother would. lady catelyn always wanted her to be like sansa, to sing and dance and sew and mind her courtesies. just thinking of it made arya try to comb her hair with her fingers, but it was all tangles and mats, and all she did was tear some out. i ruined that gown that lady smallwood gave me, and i don't sew so good. she chewed her lip. i don't sew very well, i mean. septa mordane used to say i had a blacksmith's hands. gendry hooted. those soft little things? he called out. you couldn't even hold a hammer. i could if i wanted! she snapped at him. thoros chuckled. your brother will pay, child. have no fear on that count. yes, but what if he won't? she insisted. lord beric sighed. then i will send you to lady smallwood for a time, or perhaps to mine own castle of blackhaven. but that will not be necessary, i'm certain. i do not have the power to give you back your father, no more than thoros does, but i can at least see that you are returned safely to your mother's arms. do you swear? she asked him. yoren had promised to take her home too, only he'd gotten killed instead. on my honor as a knight, the lightning lord said solemnly. it was raining when lem returned to the brewhouse, muttering curses as water ran off his yellow cloak to puddle on the floor. anguy and jack-be-lucky sat by the door rolling dice, but no matter which game they played one-eyed jack had no luck at all. tom sevenstrings replaced a string on his woodharp, and sang the mother's tears, when willum's wife was wet, lord harte rode out on a rainy day, and then the rains of castamere. and who are you, the proud lord said, that i must bow so low? only a cat of a different coat, that 's all the truth i know in a coat of gold or a coat of red, a lion still has claws, and mine are long and sharp, my lord, as long and sharp as yours. and so he spoke, and so he spoke, that lord of castamere, but now the rains weep o 'er his hall, with no one there to hear. yes now the rains weep o 'er his hall, and not a soul to hear. finally tom ran out of rain songs and put away his harp. then there was only the sound of the rain itself beating down on the slate roof of the brewhouse. the dice game ended, and arya stood on one leg and then the other listening to merrit complain about his horse throwing a shoe. i could shoe him for you, said gendry, all of a sudden. i was only a 'prentice, but my master said my hand was made to hold a hammer. i can shoe horses, close up rents in mail, and beat the dents from plate. i bet i could make swords too. what are you saying, lad? asked harwin. i'll smith for you. gendry went to one knee before lord beric. if you'll have me, m'lord, i could be of use. i've made tools and knives and once i made a helmet that wasn't so bad. one of the mountain's men stole it from me when we was taken. arya bit her lip. he means to leave me too. you would do better serving lord tully at riverrun, said lord beric. i cannot pay for your work. no one ever did. i want a forge, and food to eat, some place i can sleep. that's enough, m'lord. a smith can find a welcome most anywhere. a skilled armorer even more so. why would you choose to stay with us? arya watched gendry screw up his stupid face, thinking. at the hollow hill, what you said about being king robert's men, and brothers, i liked that. i liked that you gave the hound a trial. lord bolton just hanged folk or took off their heads, and lord tywin and ser amory were the same. i'd sooner smith for you. we got plenty of mail needs mending, m'lord, jack reminded lord beric. most we took off the dead, and there's holes where the death came through. you must be a lackwit, boy, said lem. we're outlaws. lowborn scum, most of us, excepting his lordship. don't think it'll be like tom's fool songs neither. you won't be stealing no kisses from a princess, nor riding in no tourneys in stolen armor. you join us, you'll end with your neck in a noose, or your head mounted up above some castle gate. it's no more than they'd do for you, said gendry. aye, that's so, said jack-be-lucky cheerfully. the crows await us all * m'lord, the boy seems brave enough, and we do have need of what he brings us. take him, says jack. and quick, suggested harwin, chuckling, before the fever passes and he comes back to his senses. a wan smile crossed lord beric's lips. thoros, my sword. this time the lightning lord did not set the blade afire, but merely laid it light on gendry 's shoulder. gendry, do you swear before the eyes of gods and men to defend those who cannot defend themselves, to protect all women and children, to obey your captains, your liege lord, and your king, to fight bravely when needed and do such other tasks as are laid upon you, however hard or humble or dangerous they may be? i do, m'lord. the marcher lord moved the sword from the right shoulder to the left, and said, arise ser gendry, knight of the hollow hill, and be welcome to our brotherhood. from the door came rough, rasping laughter. the rain was running off him. his burned arm was wrapped in leaves and linen and bound tight against his chest by a crude rope sling, but the older burns that marked his face glistened black and slick in the glow of their little fire. making more knights, dondarrion? the intruder said in a growl. i ought to kill you all over again for that. lord beric faced him coolly. i'd hoped we'd seen the last of you, clegane. how did you come to find us? it wasn't hard. you made enough bloody smoke to be seen in oldtown. what's become of the sentries i posted? clegane's mouth twitched. those two blind men? might be i killed them both. what would you do if i had? anguy strung his bow. notch was doing the same. do you wish to die so very much, sandor? asked thoros. you must be mad or drunk to follow us here. drunk on rain? you didn't leave me enough gold to buy a cup of wine, you whoresons. anguy drew an arrow. we're outlaws. outlaws steal. it's in the songs, if you ask nice tom may sing you one. be thankful we didn't kill you. come try it, archer. i'll take that quiver off you and shove those arrows up your freckly little arse. anguy raised his longbow, but lord beric lifted a hand before he could loose. why did you come here, clegane? to get back what's mine. your gold? what else? it wasn't for the pleasure of looking at your face, dondarrion, i'll tell you that. you're uglier than me now. and a robber knight besides, it seems. i gave you a note for your gold, lord beric said calmly. a promise to pay, when the war's done. i wiped my arse with your paper. i want the gold. we don't have it. i sent it south with greenbeard and the huntsman, to buy grain and seed across the mander. to feed all them whose crops you burned, said gendry. is that the tale, now? sandor clegane laughed again. as it happens, that's just what i meant to do with it. feed a bunch of ugly peasants and their poxy whelps. you're lying, said gendry. the boy has a mouth on him, i see. why believe them and not me? couldn't be my face, could it? clegane glanced at arya. you going to make her a knight too, dondarrion? the first eight- year-old girl knight? i'm twelve, arya lied loudly, and i could be a knight if i wanted. i could have killed you too, only lem took my knife. remembering that still made her angry. complain to lem, not me. then tuck your tail between your legs and run. do you know what dogs do to wolves? next time i will kill you. i'll kill your brother too! no. his dark eyes narrowed. that you won't. he turned back to lord beric. say, make my horse a knight. he never shits in the hall and doesn't kick more than most, he deserves to be knighted. unless you meant to steal him too. best climb on that horse and go, warned lem. i'll go with my gold. your own god said i'm guiltless - the lord of light gave you back your life, declared thoros of myr. he did not proclaim you baelor the blessed come again. the red priest unsheathed his sword, and arya saw that jack and merrit had drawn as well. lord beric still held the blade he'd used to dub gendry. maybe this time they'll kill him. the hound's mouth gave another twitch. you're no more than common thieves. lem glowered. your lion friends ride into some village, take all the food and every coin they find, and call it foraging. the wolves as well, so why not us? no one robbed you, dog. you just been good and foraged. sandor clegane looked at their faces, every one, as if he were trying to commit them all to memory. then he walked back out into the darkness and the pouring rain from whence he'd come, with never another word. the outlaws waited, wondering... i best go see what he did to our sentries. harwin took a wary look out the door before he left, to make certain the hound was not lurking just outside. how'd that bloody bastard get all that gold anyhow? lem lemoncloak said, to break the tension. anguy shrugged. he won the hand's tourney. in king's landing. the bowman grinned. i won a fair fortune myself, but then i met dancy, jayde, and alayaya. they taught me what roast swan tastes like, and how to bathe in arbor wine. pissed it all away, did you? laughed harwin. not all. i bought these boots, and this excellent dagger. you ought t'have bought some land and made one o' them roast swan girls an honest woman, said jack-be-lucky. raised yourself a crop o' turnips and a crop o' sons. warrior defend me! what a waste that would have been, to turn my gold to turnips. i like turnips, said jack, aggrieved. i could do with some mashed turnips right now. thoros of myr paid no heed to the banter. the hound has lost more than a few bags of coin, he mused. he has lost his master and kennel as well. he cannot go back to the lannisters, the young wolf would never have him, nor would his brother be like to welcome him. that gold was all he had left, it seems to me. bloody hell, said watty the miller. he'll come murder us in our sleep for sure, then. no. lord beric had sheathed his sword. sandor clegane would kill us all gladly, but not in our sleep. anguy, on the morrow, take the rear with beardless dick. if you see clegane still sniffing after us, kill his horse. that's a good horse, anguy protested. aye, said lem. it's the bloody rider we should be killing. we could use that horse. i'm with lem, notch said. let me feather the dog a few times, discourage him some. lord beric shook his head. clegane won his life beneath the hollow hill. i will not rob him of it. my lord is wise, thoros told the others. brothers, a trial by battle is a holy thing. you heard me ask r'hllor to take a hand, and you saw his fiery finger snap lord beric's sword, just as he was about to make an end of it. the lord of light is not yet done with joffrey's hound, it would seem. harwin soon returned to the brewhouse. puddingfoot was sound asleep, but unharmed. wait till i get hold of him, said lem. i'll cut him a new bunghole. he could have gotten every one of us killed. no one rested very comfortably that night, knowing that sandor clegane was out there in the dark, somewhere close. arya curled up near the fire, warm and snug, yet sleep would not come. she took out the coin that jaqen h'ghar had given her and curled her fingers around it as she lay beneath her cloak. it made her feel strong to hold it, remembering how she'd been the ghost in harrenhal. she could kill with a whisper then. jaqen was gone, though. he'd left her. hot pie left me too, and now gendry is leaving. lommy had died, yoren had died, syrio forel had died, even her father had died, and jaqen had given her a stupid iron penny and vanished. valar morghulis, she whispered softly, tightening her fist so the hard edges of the coin dug into her palm. ser gregor, dunsen, polliver, raff the sweetling. the tickler and the hound. ser ilyn, ser meryn, king joffrey, queen cersei. arya tried to imagine how they would look when they were dead, but it was hard to bring their faces to mind. the hound she could see, and his brother the mountain, and she would never forget joffrey's face, or his mother's... but raff and dunsen and polliver were all fading, and even the tickler, whose looks had been so commonplace. sleep took her at last, but in the black of night arya woke again, tingling. the fire had burned down to embers. mudge stood by the door, and another guard was pacing outside. the rain had stopped, and she could hear wolves howling. so close, she thought, and so many. they sounded as if they were all around the stable, dozens of them, maybe hundreds. i hope they eat the hound. she remembered what he'd said, about wolves and dogs. come morning, septon utt still swung beneath the tree, but the brown brothers were out in the rain with spades, digging shallow graves for the other dead. lord beric thanked them for the night's lodging and the meal, and gave them a bag of silver stags to help rebuild. harwin, likely luke, and watty the miller went out scouting, but neither wolves nor hounds were found. as arya was cinching her saddle girth, gendry came up to say that he was sorry. she put a foot in the stirrup and swung up into her saddle, so she could look down on him instead of up. you could have made swords at riverrun for my brother, she thought, but what she said was, if you want to be some stupid outlaw knight and get hanged, why should i care? i'll be at riverrun, ransomed, with my brother. there was no rain that day, thankfully, and for once they made good time. when arya saw the shape of a great hill looming in the distance, golden in the afternoon sun, she knew it at once. they had come all the way back to high heart. by sunset they were at the top, making camp where no harm could come to them. arya walked around the circle of weirwood stumps with lord beric's squire ned, and they stood on top of one watching the last light fade in the west. from up here she could see a storm raging to the north, but high heart stood above the rain. it wasn't above the wind, though; the gusts were blowing so strongly that it felt like someone was behind her, yanking on her cloak. only when she turned, no one was there. ghosts, she remembered. high heart is haunted. they built a great fire atop the hill, and thoros of myr sat cross-legged beside it, gazing deep into the flames as if there was nothing else in all the world. what is he doing? arya asked ned. sometimes he sees things in the flames, the squire told her. the past. the future. things happening far away. arya squinted at the fire to see if she could see what the red priest was seeing, but it only made her eyes water and before long she turned away. gendry was watching the red priest as well. can you truly see the future there? he asked suddenly. thoros turned from the fire, sighing. not here. not now. but some days, yes, the lord of light grants me visions. gendry looked dubious. my master said you were a sot and a fraud, as bad a priest as there ever was. that was unkind. thoros chuckled. true, but unkind. who was this master of yours? did i know you, boy? i was 'prenticed to the master armorer tobho mott, on the street of steel. you used to buy your swords from him. just so. he charged me twice what they were worth, then scolded me for setting them afire. thoros laughed. your master had it right. i was no very holy priest. i was born youngest of eight, so my father gave me over to the red temple, but it was not the path i would have chosen. i prayed the prayers and i spoke the spells, but i would also lead raids on the kitchens, and from time to time they found girls in my bed. such wicked girls, i never knew how they got there. i had a gift for tongues, though. and when i gazed into the flames, well, from time to time i saw things. even so, i was more bother than i was worth, so they sent me finally to king's landing to bring the lord's light to seven-besotted westeros. king aerys so loved fire it was thought he might make a convert. alas, his pyromancers knew better tricks than i did. king robert was fond of me, though, the first time i rode into a melee with a flaming sword, kevan lannister's horse reared and threw him and his grace laughed so hard i thought he might rupture. the red priest smiled at the memory. it was no way to treat a blade, though, your master had the right of that too. fire consumes, lord beric stood behind them, and there was something in his voice that silenced thoros at once, it consumes, and when it is done there is nothing left. nothing. beric. sweet friend. the priest touched the lightning lord on the forearm. what are you saying? nothing i have not said before. six times, thoros? six times is too many. he turned away abruptly. that night the wind was howling almost like a wolf and there were some real wolves off to the west giving it lessons. notch, anguy, and merrit o' moontown had the watch. ned, gendry, and many of the others were fast asleep when arya spied the small pale shape creeping behind the horses, thin white hair flying wild as she leaned upon a gnarled cane. the woman could not have been more than three feet tall. the firelight made her eyes gleam as red as the eyes of jon's wolf. he was a ghost too. arya stole closer, and knelt to watch. thoros and lem were with lord beric when the dwarf woman sat down uninvited by the fire. she squinted at them with eyes like hot coals. the ember and the lemon come to honor me again, and his grace the lord of corpses. an ill-omened name. i have asked you not to use it. aye, you have. but the stink of death is fresh on you, my lord. she had but a single tooth remaining. give me wine or i will go. my bones are old. my joints ache when the winds do blow, and up here the winds are always blowing. a silver stag for your dreams, my lady, lord beric said, with solemn courtesy. another if you have news for us. i cannot eat a silver stag, nor ride one. a skin of wine for my dreams, and for my news a kiss from the great oaf in the yellow cloak. the little woman cackled. aye, a sloppy kiss, a bit of tongue. it has been too long, too long. his mouth will taste of lemons, and mine of bones. i am too old. aye, lem complained. too old for wine and kisses. all you'll get from me is the flat of my sword, crone. my hair comes out in handfuls and no one has kissed me for a thousand years. it is hard to be so old. well, i will have a song then. a song from tom o' sevens, for my news. you will have your song from tom, lord beric promised. he gave her the wineskin himself. the dwarf woman drank deep, the wine running down her chin. when she lowered the skin, she wiped her mouth with the back of a wrinkled hand and said, sour wine for sour tidings, what could be more fitting? the king is dead, is that sour enough for you? arya's heart caught in her throat. which bloody king is dead, crone? lem demanded. the wet one. the kraken king, m' lords. i dreamt him dead and he died, and the iron squids now turn on one another. oh, and lord hoster tully's died too, but you know that, don't you? in the hall of kings, the goat sits alone and fevered as the great dog descends on him. the old woman took another long gulp of wine, squeezing the skin as she raised it to her lips. the great dog. did she mean the hound? or maybe his brother, the mountain that rides? arya was not certain. they bore the same arms, three black dogs on a yellow field. half the men whose deaths she prayed for belonged to ser gregor clegane; polliver, dunsen, raff the sweetling, the tickler, and ser gregor himself. maybe lord beric will hang them all. i dreamt a wolf howling in the rain, but no one heard his grief, the dwarf woman was saying. i dreamt such a clangor i thought my head might burst, drums and horns and pipes and screams, but the saddest sound was the little bells. i dreamt of a maid at a feast with purple serpents in her hair, venom dripping from their fangs. and later i dreamt that maid again, slaying a savage giant in a castle built of snow. she turned her head sharply and smiled through the gloom, right at arya. you cannot hide from me, child. come closer, now. cold fingers walked down arya's neck. fear cuts deeper than swords, she reminded herself. she stood and approached the fire warily, light on the balls of her feet, poised to flee. the dwarf woman studied her with dim red eyes. i see you, she whispered. i see you, wolf child. blood child. i thought it was the lord who smelled of death... she began to sob, her little body shaking. you are cruel to come to my hill, cruel. i gorged on grief at summerhall, i need none of yours. begone from here, dark heart. begone! there was such fear in her voice that arya took a step backward, wondering if the woman was mad. don't frighten the child, thoros protested. there's no harm in her. lem lemoncloak's finger went to his broken nose. don't be so bloody sure of that. she will leave on the morrow, with us, lord beric assured the little woman. we're taking her to riverrun, to her mother. nay, said the dwarf. you're not. the black fish holds the rivers now. if it's the mother you want, seek her at the twins. for there's to be a wedding. she cackled again. look in your fires, pink priest, and you will see. not now, though, not here, you'll see nothing here. this place belongs to the old gods still... they linger here as i do, shrunken and feeble but not yet dead. nor do they love the flames. for the oak recalls the acorn, the acorn dreams the oak, the stump lives in them both. and they remember when the first men came with fire in their fists. she drank the last of the wine in four long swallows, flung the skin aside, and pointed her stick at lord beric. i'll have my payment now. i'll have the song you promised me. and so lem woke tom sevenstrings beneath his furs, and brought him yawning to the fireside with his woodharp in hand. the same song as before? he asked. oh, aye. my jenny's song. is there another? and so he sang, and the dwarf woman closed her eyes and rocked slowly back and forth, murmuring the words and crying. thoros took arya firmly by the hand and drew her aside. let her savor her song in peace, he said. it is all she has left. i wasn't going to hurt her, arya thought. what did she mean about the twins? my mother's at riverrun, isn't she? she was. the red priest rubbed beneath his chin. a wedding, she said. we shall see. whenever she is, lord beric will find her, though. not long after, the sky opened. lightning cracked and thunder rolled across the hills, and the rain fell in blinding sheets. the dwarf woman vanished as suddenly as she had appeared, while the outlaws gathered branches and threw up crude shelters. it rained all through that night, and come morning ned, lem, and watty the miller awoke with chills. watty could not keep his breakfast down, and young ned was feverish and shivering by turns, with skin clammy to the touch. there was an abandoned village half a day's ride to the north, notch told lord beric; they'd find better shelter there, a place to wait out the worst of the rains. so they dragged themselves back into the saddles and urged their horses down the great hill. the rains did not let up. they rode through woods and fields, fording swollen streams where the rushing water came up to the bellies of their horses. arya pulled up the hood of her cloak and hunched down, sodden and shivering but determined not to falter. merrit and mudge were soon coughing as bad as watty, and poor ned seemed to grow more miserable with every mile. when i wear my helm, the rain beats against the steel and gives me headaches, he complained. but when i take it off, my hair gets soaked and sticks to my face and in my mouth. you have a knife, gendry suggested. if your hair annoys you so much, shave your bloody head. he doesn't like ned. the squire seemed nice enough to arya; maybe a little shy, but good- natured. she had always heard that dornishmen were small and swarthy, with black hair and small black eyes, but ned had big blue eyes, so dark that they looked almost purple. and his hair was a pale blond, more ash than honey. how long have you been lord beric 's squire? she asked, to take his mind from his misery. he took me for his page when he espoused my aunt. he coughed. i was seven, but when i turned ten he raised me to squire. i won a prize once, riding at rings. i never learned the lance, but i could beat you with a sword, said arya. have you killed anyone? that seemed to startle him. i'm only twelve. i killed a boy when i was eight, arya almost said, but she thought she'd better not. you've been in battles, though. yes. he did not sound very proud of it. i was at the mummer's ford. when lord beric fell into the river, i dragged him up onto the bank so he wouldn't drown and stood over him with my sword. i never had to fight, though. he had a broken lance sticking out of him, so no one bothered us. when we regrouped, green gergen helped pull his lordship back onto a horse. arya was remembering the stableboy at king's landing. after him there'd been that guard whose throat she cut at harrenhal, and ser amory's men at that holdfast by the lake. she didn't know if weese and chiswyck counted, or the ones who'd died on account of the weasel soup... all of a sudden, she felt very sad. my father was called ned too, she said. i know. i saw him at the hand's tourney. i wanted to go up and speak with him, but i couldn't think what to say. ned shivered beneath his cloak, a sodden length of pale purple. were you at the tourney? i saw your sister there. ser loras tyrell gave her a rose. she told me. it all seemed so long ago. her friend jeyne poole fell in love with your lord beric. he's promised to my aunt. ned looked uncomfortable. that was before, though. before he... ... died? she thought, as ned's voice trailed off into an awkward silence. their horses' hooves made sucking sounds as they pulled free of the mud. my lady? ned said at last. you have a baseborn brother... jon snow? he's with the night's watch on the wall. maybe i should go to the wall instead of riverrun. jon wouldn't care who i killed or whether i brushed my hair... jon looks like me, even though he's bastard-born. he used to muss my hair and call me 'little sister. ' arya missed jon most of all. just saying his name made her sad. how do you know about jon? he is my milk brother. brother? arya did not understand. but you're from dome. how could you and jon be blood? milk brothers. not blood. my lady mother had no milk when i was little, so wylla had to nurse me. arya was lost. who's wylla? jon snow's mother. he never told you? she's served us for years and years. since before i was born. jon never knew his mother. not even her name. arya gave ned a wary look. you know her? truly? is he making mock of me? if you lie i'll punch your face. wylla was my wetnurse, he repeated solemnly. i swear it on the honor of my house. you have a house? that was stupid; he was a squire, of course he had a house. who are you? my lady? ned looked embarrassed. i'm edric dayne, the... the lord of starfall. behind them, gendry groaned. lords and ladies, he proclaimed in a disgusted tone. arya plucked a withered crabapple off a passing branch and whipped it at him, bouncing it off his thick bull head. ow, he said. that hurt. he felt the skin above his eye. what kind of lady throws crabapples at people? the bad kind, said arya, suddenly contrite. she turned back to ned. i'm sorry i didn't know who you were. my lord. the fault is mine, my lady. he was very polite. jon has a mother. wylla, her name is wylla. she would need to remember so she could tell him, the next time she saw him. she wondered if he would still call her little sister. i'm not so little anymore. he'd have to call me something else. maybe once she got to riverrun she could write jon a letter and tell him what ned dayne had said. there was an arthur dayne, she remembered. the one they called the sword of the morning. my father was ser arthur's elder brother. lady ashara was my aunt. i never knew her, though. she threw herself into the sea from atop the palestone sword before i was born. why would she do that? said arya, startled. ned looked wary. maybe he was afraid that she was going to throw something at him. your lord father never spoke of her? he said. the lady ashara dayne, of starfall? no. did he know her? before robert was king. she met your father and his brothers at harrenhal, during the year of the false spring. oh. arya did not know what else to say. why did she jump in the sea, though? her heart was broken. sansa would have sighed and shed a tear for true love, but arya just thought it was stupid. she couldn't say that to ned, though, not about his own aunt. did someone break it? he hesitated. perhaps it's not my place... tell me. he looked at her uncomfortably. my aunt allyria says lady ashara and your father fell in love at harrenhal - that's not so. he loved my lady mother. i'm sure he did, my lady, but - she was the only one he loved. he must have found that bastard under a cabbage leaf, then, gendry said behind them. arya wished she had another crabapple to bounce off his face. my father had honor, she said angrily. and we weren't talking to you anyway. why don't you go back to stoney sept and ring that girl's stupid bells? gendry ignored that. at least your father raised his bastard, not like mine. i don't even know my father's name. some smelly drunk, i'd wager, like the others my mother dragged home from the alehouse. whenever she got mad at me, she'd say, 'if your father was here, he'd beat you bloody.' that's all i know of him. he spat. well, if he was here now, might be i'd beat him bloody. but he's dead, i figure, and your father's dead too, so what does it matter who he lay with? it mattered to arya, though she could not have said why. ned was trying to apologize for upsetting her, but she did not want to hear it. she pressed her heels into her horse and left them both. anguy the archer was riding a few yards ahead. when she caught up with him, she said, dornishmen lie, don't they? they're famous for it. the bowman grinned. of course, they say the same of us marchers, so there you are. what's the trouble now? ned's a good lad... he's just a stupid liar. arya left the trail, leapt a rotten log and splashed across a streambed, ignoring the shouts of the outlaws behind her. they just want to tell me more lies. she thought about trying to get away from them, but there were too many and they knew these lands too well. what was the use of running if they caught you? it was harwin who rode up beside her, in the end. where do you think you're going, milady? you shouldn't run off. there are wolves in these woods, and worse things. i'm not afraid, she said. that boy ned said... aye, he told me. lady ashara dayne. it's an old tale, that one. i heard it once at winterfell, when i was no older than you are now. he took hold of her bridle firmly and turned her horse around. i doubt there's any truth to it. but if there is, what of it? when ned met this dornish lady, his brother brandon was still alive, and it was him betrothed to lady catelyn, so there's no stain on your father's honor. there's nought like a tourney to make the blood run hot, so maybe some words were whispered in a tent of a night, who can say? words or kisses, maybe more, but where's the harm in that? spring had come, or so they thought, and neither one of them was pledged. she killed herself, though, said arya uncertainly. ned says she jumped from a tower into the sea. so she did, harwin admitted, as he led her back, but that was for grief, i'd wager. she'd lost a brother, the sword of the morning. he shook his head. let it lie, my lady. they're dead, all of them. let it lie... and please, when we come to riverrun, say naught of this to your mother. the village was just where notch had promised it would be. they took shelter in a grey stone stable. only half a roof remained, but that was half a roof more than any other building in the village. it's not a village, it's only black stones and old bones. did the lannisters kill the people who lived here? arya asked as she helped anguy dry the horses. no. he pointed. look at how thick the moss grows on the stones. no one's moved them for a long time. and there's a tree growing out of the wall there, see? this place was put to the torch a long time ago. who did it, then? asked gendry. hoster tully. notch was a stooped thin grey-haired man, born in these parts. this was lord goodbrook's village. when riverrun declared for robert, goodbrook stayed loyal to the king, so lord tully came down on him with fire and sword. after the trident, goodbrook's son made his peace with robert and lord hoster, but that didn't help the dead none. a silence fell. gendry gave arya a queer look, then turned away to brush his horse. outside the rain came down and down. i say we need a fire, thoros declared. the night is dark and full of terrors. and wet too, eh? too very wet. jack-be-lucky hacked some dry wood from a stall, while notch and merrit gathered straw for kindling. thoros himself struck the spark, and lem fanned the flames with his big yellow cloak until they roared and swirled. soon it grew almost hot inside the stable. thoros sat before it cross-legged, devouring the flames with his eyes just as he had atop high heart. arya watched him closely, and once his lips moved, and she thought she heard him mutter, riverrun. lem paced back and forth, coughing, a long shadow matching him stride for stride, while tom o' sevens pulled off his boots and rubbed his feet. i must be mad, to be going back to riverrun, the singer complained. the tullys have never been lucky for old tom. it was that lysa sent me up the high road, when the moon men took my gold and my horse and all my clothes as well. there's knights in the vale still telling how i came walking up to the bloody gate with only my harp to keep me modest. they made me sing 'the name day boy'and the king without courage 'before they opened that gate. my only solace was that three of them died laughing. i haven't been back to the eyrie since, and i won't sing 'the king without courage' either, not for all the gold in casterly - lannisters, thoros said. roaring red and gold. he lurched to his feet and went to lord beric. lem and tom wasted no time joining them. arya could not make out what they were saying, but the singer kept glancing at her, and one time lem got so angry he pounded a fist against the wall. that was when lord beric gestured for her to come closer. it was the last thing she wanted to do, but harwin put a hand in the small of her back and pushed her forward. she took two steps and hesitated, full of dread. my lord. she waited to hear what lord beric would say. tell her, the lightning lord commanded thoros. the red priest squatted down beside her. my lady, he said, the lord granted me a view of riverrun. an island in a sea of fire, it seemed. the flames were leaping lions with long crimson claws. and how they roared! a sea of lannisters, my lady. riverrun will soon come under attack. arya felt as though he'd punched her in the belly. no! sweetling, said thoros, the flames do not lie. sometimes i read them wrongly, blind fool that i am. but not this time, i think. the lannisters will soon have riverrun under siege. robb will beat them. arya got a stubborn look. he'll beat them like he did before. your brother may be gone, said thoros. your mother as well. i did not see them in the flames. this wedding the old one spoke of, a wedding on the twins... she has her own ways of knowing things, that one. the weirwoods whisper in her ear when she sleeps. if she says your mother is gone to the twins... arya turned on tom and lem. if you hadn't caught me, i would have been there. i would have been home. lord beric paid no heed to her outburst. my lady, he said with weary courtesy, would you know your grandfather's brother by sight? ser brynden tully, called the blackfish? would he know you, perchance? arya shook her head miserably. she had heard her mother speak of ser brynden blackfish, but if she had ever met him herself it had been when she was too little to remember. small chance the blackfish will pay good coin for a girl he doesn't know, said tom. those tullys are a sour, suspicious lot, he's like to think we're selling him false goods. we'll convince him, lem lemoncloak insisted. she will, or harwin. riverrun is closest. i say we take her there, get the gold, and be bloody well done with her. and if the lions catch us inside the castle? said tom. they'd like nothing better than to hang his lordship in a cage from the top of casterly rock. i do not mean to be taken, said lord beric. a final word hung unspoken in the air. alive. they all heard it, even arya, though it never passed his lips. still, we dare not go blindly here. i want to know where the armies are, the wolves and lions both. shama will know something, and lord vance's maester will know more. acorn hall's not far. lady smallwood will shelter us for a time while we send scouts ahead to learn... his words beat at her ears like the pounding of a drum, and suddenly it was more than arya could stand. she wanted riverrun, not acorn hall; she wanted her mother and her brother robb, not lady smallwood or some uncle she never knew. whirling, she broke for the door, and when harwin tried to grab her arm she spun away from him quick as a snake. outside the stables the rain was still falling, and distant lightning flashed in the west. arya ran as fast as she could. she did not know where she was going, only that she wanted to be alone, away from all the voices, away from their hollow words and broken promises. all i wanted was to go to riverrun. it was her own fault, for taking gendry and hot pie with her when she left harrenhal. she would have been better alone. if she had been alone, the outlaws would never have caught her, and she'd be with robb and her mother by now. they were never my pack. if they had been, they wouldn't leave me. she splashed through a puddle of muddy water. someone was shouting her name, harwin probably, or gendry, but the thunder drowned them out as it rolled across the hills, half a heartbeat behind the lightning. the lightning lord, she thought angrily. maybe he couldn't die, but he could lie. somewhere off to her left a horse whinnied. arya couldn't have gone more than fifty yards from the stables, yet already she was soaked to the bone. she ducked around the corner of one of the tumbledown houses, hoping the mossy walls would keep the rain off, and almost bowled right into one of the sentries. a mailed hand closed hard around her arm. you're hurting me, she said, twisting in his grasp. let go, i was going to go back, i... back? sandor clegane's laughter was iron scraping over stone. bugger that, wolf girl. you're mine. he needed only one hand to yank her off her feet and drag her kicking toward his waiting horse. the cold rain lashed them both and washed away her shouts, and all that arya could think of was the question he had asked her. do you know what dogs do to wolves? when they reached the top of the ridge and saw the river, sandor clegane reined up hard and cursed. the rain was falling from a black iron sky, pricking the green and brown torrent with ten thousand swords. it must be a mile across, arya thought. the tops of half a hundred trees poked up out the swirling waters, their limbs clutching for the sky like the arms of drowning men. thick mats of sodden leaves choked the shoreline, and farther out in the channel she glimpsed something pale and swollen, a deer or perhaps a dead horse, moving swiftly downstream. there was a sound too, a low rumble at the edge of hearing, like the sound a dog makes just before he growls. arya squirmed in the saddle and felt the links of the hound's mail digging into her back. his arms encircled her; on the left, the burned arm, he'd donned a steel vambrace for protection, but she'd seen him change the dressings, and the flesh beneath was still raw and seeping. if the burns pained him, though, sandor clegane gave no hint of it. is this the blackwater rush? they had ridden so far in rain and darkness, through trackless woods and nameless villages, that arya had lost all sense of where they were. it's a river we need to cross, that's all you need to know. clegane would answer her from time to time, but he had warned her not to talk back. he had given her a lot of warnings that first day. the next time you hit me, i'll tie your hands behind your back, he'd said. the next time you try and run off, i'll bind your feet together. scream or shout or bite me again, and i'll gag you. we can ride double, or i can throw you across the back of the horse trussed up like a sow for slaughter. your choice. she had chosen to ride, but the first time they made camp she'd waited until she thought he was asleep, and found a big jagged rock to smash his ugly head in. quiet as a shadow, she told herself as she crept toward him, but that wasn't quiet enough. the hound hadn't been asleep after all. or maybe he'd woken. whichever it was, his eyes opened, his mouth twitched, and he took the rock away from her as if she were a baby. the best she could do was kick him. i'll give you that one, he said, when he flung the rock into the bushes. but if you're stupid enough to try again, i'll hurt you. why don't you just kill me like you did mycah? arya had screamed at him. she was still defiant then, more angry than scared. he answered by grabbing the front of her tunic and yanking her within an inch of his burned face. the next time you say that name i'll beat you so bad you'll wish i killed you. after that, he rolled her in his horse blanket every night when he went to sleep, and tied ropes around her top and bottom so she was bound up as tight as a babe in swaddling clothes. it has to be the blackwater, arya decided as she watched the rain lash the river. the hound was joffrey's dog; he was taking her back to the red keep, to hand to joffrey and the queen. she wished that the sun would come out, so she could tell which way they were going. the more she looked at the moss on the trees the more confused she got. the blackwater wasn't so wide at king's landing, but that was before the rains. the fords will all be gone, sandor clegane said, and i wouldn't care to try and swim over neither. there's no way across, she thought. lord beric will catch us for sure. clegane had pushed his big black stallion hard, doubling back thrice to throw off pursuit, once even riding half a mile up the center of a swollen stream... but arya still expected to see the outlaws every time she looked back. she had tried to help them by scratching her name on the trunks of trees when she went in the bushes to make water, but the fourth time she did it he caught her, and that was the end of that. it doesn't matter, arya told herself, thoros will find me in his flames. only he hadn't. not yet, anyway, and once they crossed the river... harroway town shouldn't be far, the hound said. where lord roote stables old king andahar's two-headed water horse. maybe we'll ride across. arya had never heard of old king andahar. she'd never seen a horse with two heads either, especially not one who could run on water, but she knew better than to ask. she held her tongue and sat stiff as the hound turned the stallion's head and trotted along the ridgeline, following the river downstream. at least the rain was at their backs this way. she'd had enough of it stinging her eyes half-blind and washing down her cheeks like she was crying. wolves never cry, she reminded herself again. it could not have been much past noon, but the sky was dark as dusk. they had not seen the sun in more days than she could count. arya was soaked to the bone, saddle-sore, sniffling, and achy. she had a fever too, and sometimes shivered uncontrollably, but when she'd told the hound that she was sick he'd only snarled at her. wipe your nose and shut your mouth, he told her. half the time he slept in the saddle now, trusting his stallion to follow whatever rutted farm track or game trail they were on. the horse was a heavy courser, almost as big as a destrier but much faster. stranger, the hound called him. arya had tried to steal him once, when clegane was taking a piss against a tree, thinking she could ride off before he could catch her. stranger had almost bitten her face off. he was gentle as an old gelding with his master, but otherwise he had a temper as black as he was. she had never known a horse so quick to bite or kick. they rode beside the river for hours, splashing across two muddy vassal streams before they reached the place that sandor clegane had spoken of. lord harroway's town, he said, and then, when he saw it, seven hells! the town was drowned and desolate. the rising waters had overflowed the riverbanks. all that remained of harroway town was the upper story of a daub- and- wattle inn, the seven-sided dome of a sunken sept, two-thirds of a stone roundtower, some moldy thatch roofs, and a forest of chimneys. but there was smoke coming from the tower, arya saw, and below one arched window a wide flat-bottomed boat was chained up tight. the boat had a dozen oarlocks and a pair of great carved wooden horse heads mounted fore and aft. the two-headed horse, she realized. there was a wooden house with a sod roof right in the middle of the deck, and when the hound cupped his hands around his mouth and shouted two men came spilling out. a third appeared in the window of the roundtower, clutching a loaded crossbow. what do you want? he shouted across the swirling brown waters. take us over, the hound shouted back. the men in the boat conferred with one another. one of them, a grizzled grey- haired man with thick arms and a bent back, stepped to the rail. it will cost you. then i'll pay. with what? arya wondered. the outlaws had taken clegane's gold, but maybe lord beric had left him some silver and copper. a ferry ride shouldn't cost more than a few coppers... the ferrymen were talking again. finally the bent-backed one turned away and gave a shout. six more men appeared, pulling up hoods to keep the rain off their heads. still more squirmed out the holdfast window and leapt down onto the deck. half of them looked enough like the bent- backed man to be his kin. some of them undid the chains and took up long poles, while the others slid heavy wide-bladed oars through the locks. the ferry swung about and began to creep slowly toward the shallows, oars stroking smoothly on either side. sandor clegane rode down the hill to meet it. when the aft end of the boat slammed into the hillside, the ferrymen opened a wide door beneath the carved horse's head, and extended a heavy oaken plank. stranger balked at the water's edge, but the hound put his heels into the courser's flank and urged him up the gangway. the bent-backed man was waiting for them on deck. wet enough for you, ser? he asked, smiling. the hound's mouth gave a twitch. i need your boat, not your bloody wit. he dismounted, and pulled arya down beside him. one of the boatmen reached for stranger's bridle. i wouldn't, clegane said, as the horse kicked. the man leapt back, slipped on the rain-slick deck, and crashed onto his arse, cursing. the ferryman with the bent back wasn't smiling any longer. we can get you across, he said sourly. it will cost you a gold piece. another for the horse. a third for the boy. three dragons? clegane gave a bark of laughter. for three dragons i should own the bloody ferry. last year, might be you could. but with this river, i'll need extra hands on the poles and oars just to see we don't get swept a hundred miles out to sea. here's your choice. three dragons, or you teach that hellhorse how to walk on water. i like an honest brigand. have it your way. three dragons... when you put us ashore safe on the north bank. i'll have them now, or we don't go. the man thrust out a thick, callused hand, palm up. clegane rattled his longsword to loosen the blade in the scabbard. here's your choice. gold on the north bank, or steel on the south. the ferryman looked up at the hound's face. arya could tell that he didn't like what he saw there. he had a dozen men behind him, strong men with oars and hardwood poles in their hands, but none of them were rushing forward to help him. together they could overwhelm sandor clegane, though he'd likely kill three or four of them before they took him down. how do i know you're good for it? the bent -backed man asked, after a moment. he's not, she wanted to shout, instead she bit her lip. knight's honor, the hound said, unsmiling. he's not even a knight. she did not say that either. that will do. the ferryman spat. come on then, we can have you across before dark. tie the horse up, i don't want him spooking when we're under way. there's a brazier in the cabin if you and your son want to get warm. i'm not his stupid son! said arya furiously. that was even worse than being taken for a boy. she was so angry that she might have told them who she really was, only sandor clegane grabbed her by the back of the collar and hoisted her one-handed off the deck. how many times do i need to tell you to shut your bloodymouth? he shook her so hard her teeth rattled, then let her fall. get in there and get dry, like the man said. arya did as she was told. the big iron brazier was glowing red, filling the room with a sullen suffocating heat. it felt pleasant to stand beside it, to warm her hands and dry off a little bit, but as soon as she felt the deck move under her feet she slipped back out through the forward door. the two-headed horse eased slowly through the shallows, picking its way between the chimneys and rooftops of drowned harroway. a dozen men labored at the oars while four more used the long poles to push off whenever they came too close to a rock, a tree, or a sunken house. the bent-backed man had the rudder. rain pattered against the smooth planks of the deck and splashed off the tall carved horseheads fore and aft. arya was getting soaked again, but she didn't care. she wanted to see. the man with the crossbow still stood in the window of the roundtower, she saw. his eyes followed her as the ferry slid by underneath. she wondered if he was this lord roote that the hound had mentioned. he doesn't look much like a lord. but then, she didn't look much like a lady either. once they were beyond the town and out in the river proper, the current grew much stronger. through the grey haze of rain arya could make out a tall stone pillar on the far shore that surely marked the ferry landing, but no sooner had she seen it than she realized that they were being pushed away from it, downstream. the oarsmen were rowing more vigorously now, fighting the rage of the river. leaves and broken branches swirled past as fast as if they'd been fired from a scorpion. the men with the poles leaned out and shoved away anything that came too close. it was windier out here, too. whenever she turned to look upstream, arya got a face full of blowing rain. stranger was screaming and kicking as the deck moved underfoot. if i jumped over the side, the river would wash me away before the hound even knew that i was gone. she looked back over a shoulder, and saw sandor clegane struggling with his frightened horse, trying to calm him. she would never have a better chance to get away from him. i might drown, though. jon used to say that she swam like a fish, but even a fish might have trouble in this river. still, drowning might be better than king's landing. she thought about joffrey and crept up to the prow. the river was murky brown with mud and lashed by rain, looking more like soup than water. arya wondered how cold it would be. i couldn't get much wetter than i am now she put a hand on the rail. but a sudden shout snapped her head about before she could leap. the ferrymen were rushing forward, poles in hand. for a moment she did not understand what was happening. then she saw it: an uprooted tree, huge and dark, coming straight at them. a tangle of roots and limbs poked up out of the water as it came, like the reaching arms of a great kraken. the oarsmen were backing water frantically, trying to avoid a collision that could capsize them or stove their hull in. the old man had wrenched the rudder about, and the horse at the prow was swinging downstream, but too slowly. glistening brown and black, the tree rushed toward them like a battering ram. it could not have been more than ten feet from their prow when two of the boatmen somehow caught it with their long poles. one snapped, and the long splintering craaaack made it sound as if the ferry were breaking up beneath them. but the second man managed to give the trunk a hard shove, just enough to deflect it away from them. the tree swept past the ferry with inches to spare, its branches scrabbling like claws against the horsehead. only just when it seemed as if they were clear, one of the monster's upper limbs dealt them a glancing thump. the ferry seemed to shudder, and arya slipped, landing painfully on one knee. the man with the broken pole was not so lucky. she heard him shout as he stumbled over the side. then the raging brown water closed over him, and he was gone in the time it took arya to climb back to her feet. one of the other boatmen snatched up a coil of rope, but there was no one to throw it to. maybe he'll wash up someplace downstream, arya tried to tell herself, but the thought had a hollow ring. she had lost all desire to go swimming. when sandor clegane shouted at her to get back inside before he beat her bloody, she went meekly. the ferry was fighting to turn back on course by then, against a river that wanted nothing more than to carry it down to the sea. when they finally came ashore, it was a good two miles downriver of their usual landing. the boat slammed into the bank so hard that another pole snapped, and arya almost lost her feet again. sandor clegane lifted her onto stranger's back as if she weighed no more than a doll. the boatmen stared at them with dull, exhausted eyes, all but the bent-backed man, who held his hand out. six dragons, he demanded. three for the passage, and three for the man i lost. sandor clegane rummaged in his pouch and shoved a crumpled wad of parchment into the boatman's palm. there. take ten. ten? the ferryman was confused. what's this, now? a dead man's note, good for nine thousand dragons or nearabouts. the hound swung up into the saddle behind arya, and smiled down unpleasantly. ten of it is yours. i'll be back for the rest one day, so see you don't go spending it. the man squinted down at the parchment. writing. what good's writing? you promised gold. knight's honor, you said. knights have no bloody honor. time you learned that, old man. the hound gave stranger the spur and galloped off through the rain. the ferrymen threw curses at their backs, and one or two threw stones. clegane ignored rocks and words alike, and before long they were lost in the gloom of the trees, the river a dwindling roar behind them. the ferry won't cross back till morning, he said, and that lot won't be taking paper promises from the next fools to come along. if your friends are chasing us, they're going to need to be bloody strong swimmers. arya huddled down and held her tongue. valar morghulis, she thought sullenly. ser ilyn, ser meryn, king joffrey, queen cersei. dunsen, polliver, raff the sweetling, ser gregor and the tickler. and the hound, the hound, the hound. by the time the rain stopped and the clouds broke, she was shivering and sneezing so badly that clegane called a halt for the night, and even tried to make a fire. the wood they gathered proved too wet, though. nothing he tried was enough to make the spark catch. finally he kicked it all apart in disgust. seven bloody hells, he swore. i hate fires. they sat on damp rocks beneath an oak tree, listening to the slow patter of water dripping from the leaves as they ate a cold supper of hardbread, moldy cheese, and smoked sausage. the hound sliced the meat with his dagger, and narrowed his eyes when he caught arya looking at the knife. don't even think about it. i wasn't, she lied. he snorted to show what he thought of that, but he gave her a thick slice of sausage. arya worried it with her teeth, watching him all the while. i never beat your sister, the hound said. but i'll beat you if you make me. stop trying to think up ways to kill me. none of it will do you a bit of good. she had nothing to say to that. she gnawed on the sausage and stared at him coldly. hard as stone, she thought. at least you look at my face. i'll give you that, you little she-wolf how do you like it? i don't. it's all burned and ugly. clegane offered her a chunk of cheese on the point of his dagger. you're a little fool. what good would it do you if you did get away? you'd just get caught by someone worse. i would not, she insisted. there is no one worse. you never knew my brother. gregor once killed a man for snoring. his own man. when he grinned, the burned side of his face pulled tight, twisting his mouth in a queer unpleasant way. he had no lips on that side, and only the stump of an ear. i did so know your brother. maybe the mountain was worse, now that arya thought about it. him and dunsen and polliver, and raff the sweetling and the tickler. the hound seemed surprised. and how would ned stark's precious little daughter come to know the likes of them? gregor never brings his pet rats to court. i know them from the village. she ate the cheese, and reached for a hunk of hardbread. the village by the lake where they caught gendry, me, and hot pie. they caught lommy greenhands too, but raff the sweetling killed him because his leg was hurt. clegane's mouth twitched. caught you? my brother caught you? that made him laugh, a sour sound, part rumble and part snarl. gregor never knew what he had, did he? he couldn't have, or he would have dragged you back kicking and screaming to king's landing and dumped you in cersei's lap. oh, that's bloody sweet. i'll be sure and tell him that, before i cut his heart out. it wasn't the first time he had talked of killing the mountain. but he's your brother, arya said dubiously. didn't you ever have a brother you wanted to kill? he laughed again. or maybe a sister? he must have seen something in her face then, for he leaned closer. sansa. that's it, isn't it? the wolf bitch wants to kill the pretty bird. no, arya spat back at him. i'd like to kill you. because i hacked your little friend in two? i've killed a lot more than him, i promise you. you think that makes me some monster. well, maybe it does, but i saved your sister's life too. the day the mob pulled her off her horse, i cut through them and brought her back to the castle, else she would have gotten what lollys stokeworth got. and she sang for me. you didn't know that, did you? your sister sang me a sweet little song. you're lying, she said at once. you don't know half as much as you think you do. the blackwater? where in seven hells do you think we are? where do you think we're going? the scorn in his voice made her hesitate. back to king's landing, she said. you're bringing me to joffrey and the queen. that was wrong, she realized all of a sudden, just from the way he asked the questions. but she had to say something. stupid blind little wolf bitch. his voice was rough and hard as an iron rasp. bugger joffrey, bugger the queen, and bugger that twisted little gargoyle she calls a brother. i'm done with their city, done with their kingsguard, done with lannisters. what's a dog to do with lions, i ask you? he reached for his waterskin, took a long pull. as he wiped his mouth, he offered the skin to arya and said, the river was the trident, girl. the trident, not the blackwater. make the map in your head, if you can. on the morrow we should reach the kingsroad. we'll make good time after that, straight up to the twins. it's going to be me who hands you over to that mother of yours. not the noble lightning lord or that flaming fraud of a priest, the monster. he grinned at the look on her face. you think your outlaw friends are the only ones can smell a ransom? dondarrion took my gold, so i took you. you're worth twice what they stole from me, i'd say. maybe even more if i sold you back to the lannisters like you fear, but i won't. even a dog gets tired of being kicked. if this young wolf has the wits the gods gave a toad, he'll make me a lordling and beg me to enter his service. he needs me, though he may not know it yet. maybe i'll even kill gregor for him, he'd like that. he'll never take you, she spat back. not you. then i'll take as much gold as i can carry, laugh in his face, and ride off. if he doesn't take me, he'd be wise to kill me, but he won't. too much his father's son, from what i hear. fine with me. either way i win. and so do you, she-wolf so stop whimpering and snapping at me, i'm sick of it. keep your mouth shut and do as i tell you, and maybe we'll even be in time for your uncle's bloody wedding. the outriders came on them an hour from the green fork, as the wayn was slogging down a muddy road. keep your head down and your mouth shut, the hound warned her as the three spurred toward them; a knight and two squires, lightly armored and mounted on fast palfreys. clegane cracked his whip at the team, a pair of old drays that had known better days. the wayn was creaking and swaying, its two huge wooden wheels squeezing mud up out of the deep ruts in the road with every turn. stranger followed, tied to the wagon. the big bad-tempered courser wore neither armor, barding, nor harness, and the hound himself was garbed in splotchy green roughspun and a soot-grey mantle with a hood that swallowed his head. so long as he kept his eyes down you could not see his face, only the whites of his eyes peering out. he looked like some down-at-heels farmer. a big farmer, though. and under the roughspun was boiled leather and oiled mail, arya knew. she looked like a farmer's son, or maybe a swineherd. and behind them were four squat casks of salt pork and one of pickled pigs' feet. the riders split and circled them for a look before they came up close. clegane drew the wayn to a halt and waited patiently on their pleasure. the knight bore spear and sword while his squires carried longbows. the badges on their jerkins were smaller versions of the sigil sewn on their master's surcoat; a black pitchfork on a golden bar sinister, upon a russet field. arya had thought of revealing herself to the first outriders they encountered, but she had always pictured grey-cloaked men with the direwolf on their breasts. she might have risked it even if they'd worn the umber giant or the glover fist, but she did not know this pitchfork knight or whom he served. the closest thing to a pitchfork she had ever seen at winterfell was the trident in the hand of lord manderly's merman. you have business at the twins? the knight asked. salt pork for the wedding feast, if it please you, ser. the hound mumbled his reply, his eyes down, his face hidden. salt pork never pleases me. the pitchfork knight gave clegane only the most cursory glance, and paid no attention at all to arya, but he looked long and hard at stranger. the stallion was no plow horse, that was plain at a glance. one of the squires almost wound up in the mud when the big black courser bit at his own mount. how did you come by this beast? the pitchfork knight demanded. mtady told me to bring him, ser, clegane said humbly. he's a wedding gift for young lord tully. what lady? who is it you serve? old lady whent, ser. does she think she can buy harrenhal back with a horse? the knight asked. gods, is there any fool like an old fool? yet he waved them down the road. go on with you, then. aye, m'lord. the hound snapped his whip again, and the old drays resumed their weary trek. the wheels had settled deep into the mud during the halt, and it took several moments for the team to pull them free again. by then the outriders were riding off. clegane gave them one last look and snorted. ser donnel haigh, he said. i've taken more horses off him than i can count. armor as well. once i near killed him in a melee. how come he didn't know you, then? arya asked. because knights are fools, and it would have been beneath him to look twice at some poxy peasant. he gave the horses a lick with the whip. keep your eyes down and your tone respectful and say ser a lot, and most knights will never see you. they pay more mind to horses than to smallfolk. he might have known stranger if he'd ever seen me ride him. he would have known your face, though. arya had no doubt of that. sandor clegane's burns would not be easy to forget, once you saw them. he couldn't hide the scars behind a helm, either; not so long as the helm was made in the shape of a snarling dog. that was why they'd needed the wayn and the pickled pigs' feet. i'm not going to be dragged before your brother in chains, the hound had told her, and i'd just as soon not have to cut through his men to get to him. so we play a little game. a farmer chance-met on the kingsroad had provided them with wayn, horses, garb, and casks, though not willingly. the hound had taken them at swordpoint. when the farmer cursed him for a robber, he said, no, a forager. be grateful you get to keep your smallclothes. now take those boots off. or i'll take your legs off. your choice. the farmer was as big as clegane, but all the same he chose to give up his boots and keep his legs. evenfall found them still trudging toward the green fork and lord frey's twin castles. i am almost there, arya thought. she knew she ought to be excited, but her belly was all knotted up tight. maybe that was just the fever she'd been fighting, but maybe not. last night she'd had a bad dream, a terrible dream. she couldn't remember what she'd dreamed of now, but the feeling had lingered all day. if anything, it had only gotten stronger. fear cuts deeper than swords. she had to be strong now, the way her father told her. there was nothing between her and her mother but a castle gate, a river, and an army... but it was robb's army, so there was no real danger there. was there? roose bolton was one of them, though. the leech lord, as the outlaws called him. that made her uneasy. she had fled harrenhal to get away from bolton as much as from the bloody mummers, and she'd had to cut the throat of one of his guards to escape. did he know she'd done that? or did he blame gendry or hot pie? would he have told her mother? what would he do if he saw her? he probably won't even know me. she looked more like a drowned rat than a lord's cupbearer these days. a drowned boy rat. the hound had hacked handfuls of her hair off only two days past. he was an even worse barber than yoren, and he'd left her half bald on one side. robb won't know me either, i bet. or even mother. she had been a little girl the last time she saw them, the day lord eddard stark left winterfell. they heard the music before they saw the castle; the distant rattle of drums, the brazen blare of horns, the thin skirling of pipes faint beneath the growl of the river and the sound of the rain beating on their heads. we've missed the wedding, the hound said, but it sounds as though the feast is still going. i'll be rid of you soon. no, i'll be rid of you, arya thought. the road had been running mostly northwest, but now it turned due west between an apple orchard and a field of drowned corn beaten down by the rain. they passed the last of the apple trees and crested a rise, and the castles, river, and camps all appeared at once. there were hundreds of horses and thousands of men, most of them milling about the three huge feast tents that stood side by side facing the castle gates, like three great canvas longhalls. robb had made his camp well back from the walls, on higher, drier ground, but the green fork had overflown its bank and even claimed a few carelessly placed tents. the music from the castles was louder here. the sound of the drums and horns rolled across the camp. the musicians in the nearer castle were playing a different song than the ones in the castle on the far bank, though, so it sounded more like a battle than a song. they're not very good, arya observed. the hound made a sound that might have been a laugh. there's old deaf women in lannisport complaining of the din, i'll warrant. i'd heard walder frey's eyes were failing, but no one mentioned his bloody ears. arya found herself wishing it were day. if the sun was out and the wind was blowing, she would have been able to see the banners better. she would have looked for the direwolf of stark, or maybe the cerwyn battleaxe or the glover fist. but in the gloom of night all the colors looked grey. the rain had dwindled down to a fine drizzle, almost a mist, but an earlier downpour had left the banners wet as dishrags, sodden and unreadable. a hedge of wagons and carts had been drawn up along the perimeter to make a crude wooden wall against any attack. that was where the guards stopped them. the lantern their sergeant carried shed enough light for arya to see that his cloak was a pale pink, spotted with red teardrops. the men under him had the leech lord's badge sewn over their hearts, the flayed man of the dreadfort. sandor clegane gave them the same tale he'd used on the outriders, but the bolton sergeant was a harder sort of nut than ser donnel haigh had been. salt pork's no fit meat for a lord's wedding feast, he said scornfully. got pickled pigs' feet too, ser. not for the feast, you don't. the feast's half done. and i'm a northman, not some milksuck southron knight. i was told to see the steward, or the cook... castle's closed. the lordlings are not to be disturbed. the sergeant considered a moment. you can unload by the feast tents, there. he pointed with a mailed hand. ale makes a man hungry, and old frey won't miss a few pigs' feet. he don't have the teeth for such anyhow. ask for sedgekins, he'll know what's to be done with you. he barked a command, and his men rolled one of the wagons aside for them to enter. the hound's whip spurred the team toward the tents. no one seemed to pay them any mind. they splashed past rows of brightly colored pavilions, their walls of wet silk lit up like magic lanterns by lamps and braziers inside; pink and gold and green they glimmered, striped and fretty and chequy, emblazoned with birds and beasts, chevrons and stars, wheels and weapons. arya spotted a yellow tent with six acorns on its panels, three over two over one. lord smallwood, she knew, remembering acorn hall so far away, and the lady who'd said she was pretty. but for every shimmering silk pavilion there were two dozen of felt or canvas, opaque and dark. there were barracks tents too, big enough to shelter two score footsoldiers, though even those were dwarfed by the three great feast tents. the drinking had been going on for hours, it seemed. arya heard shouted toasts and the clash of cups, mixed in with all the usual camp sounds, horses whinnying and dogs barking, wagons rumbling through the dark, laughter and curses, the clank and clatter of steel and wood. the music grew still louder as they approached the castle, but under that was a deeper, darker sound: the river, the swollen green fork, growling like a lion in its den. arya twisted and turned, trying to look everywhere at once, hoping for a glimpse of a direwolf badge, for a tent done up in grey and white, for a face she knew from winterfell. all she saw were strangers. she stared at a man relieving himself in the reeds, but he wasn't alebelly. she saw a half-dressed girl burst from a tent laughing, but the tent was pale blue, not grey like she'd thought at first, and the man who went running after her wore a treecat on his doublet, not a wolf. beneath a tree, four archers were slipping waxed strings over the notches of their longbows, but they were not her father's archers. a maester crossed their path, but he was too young and thin to be maester luwin. arya gazed up at the twins, their high tower windows glowing softly wherever a light was burning. through the haze of rain, the castles looked spooky and mysterious, like something from one of old nan's tales, but they weren't winterfell. the press was thickest at the feast tents. the wide flaps were tied back, and men were pushing in and out with drinking horns and tankards in their hands, some with camp followers. arya glanced inside as the hound drove past the first of the three, and saw hundreds of men crowding the benches and jostling around the casks of mead and ale and wine. there was hardly room to move inside, but none of them seemed to mind. at least they were warm and dry. cold wet arya envied them. some were even singing. the fine misty rain was steaming all around the door from the heat escaping from inside. here's to lord edmure and lady roslin, she heard a voice shout. they all drank, and someone yelled, here's to the young wolf and queen jeyne. who is queen jeyne? arya wondered briefly. the only queen she knew was cersei. firepits had been dug outside the feast tents, sheltered beneath rude canopies of woven wood and hides that kept the rain out, so long as it fell straight down. the wind was blowing off the river, though, so the drizzle came in anyway, enough to make the fires hiss and swirl. serving men were turning joints of meat on spits above the flames. the smells made arya's mouth water. shouldn't we stop? she asked sandor clegane. there's northmen in the tents. she knew them by their beards, by their faces, by their cloaks of bearskin and sealskin, by their half- heard toasts and the songs they sang; karstarks and umbers and men of the mountain clans. i bet there are winterfell men too. her father's men, the young wolfs men, the direwolves of stark. your brother will be in the castle, he said. your mother too. you want them or not? yes, she said. what about sedgekins? the sergeant had told them to ask for sedgekins. sedgekins can bugger himself with a hot poker. clegane shook out his whip, and sent it hissing through the soft rain to bite at a horse's flank. it's your bloody brother i want. the feast tents were behind them now. they squished over wet clay and torn grass, out of the light and back into the gloom. ahead loomed the castle gatehouse. she could see torches moving on the walls, their flames dancing and blowing in the wind. the light shone dully against the wet mail and helms. more torches were moving on the dark stone bridge that joined the twins, a column of them streaming from the west bank to the east. the castle's not closed, arya said suddenly. the sergeant had said it would be, but he was wrong. the portcullis was being drawn upward even as she watched, and the drawbridge had already been lowered to span the swollen moat. she had been afraid that lord frey's guardsmen would refuse to let them in. for half a heartbeat she chewed her lip, too anxious to smile. the hound reined up so suddenly that she almost fell off the wayn. seven bloody buggering hells, arya heard him curse, as their left wheel began to sink in soft mud. the wayn tilted slowly. get dowm, clegane roared at her, slamming the heel of his hand into her shoulder to knock her sideways. she landed light, the way syrio had taught her, and bounced up at once with a face full of mud. why did you do that? she screamed. the hound had leapt down as well. he tore the seat off the front of the wayn and reached in for the swordbelt he'd hidden beneath it. it was only then that she heard the riders pouring out the castle gate in a river of steel and fire, the thunder of their destriers crossing the drawbridge almost lost beneath the drumming from the castles. men and mounts wore plate armor, and one in every ten carried a torch. the rest had axes, longaxes with spiked heads and heavy bone-crushing armor-smashing blades. somewhere far off she heard a wolf howling. it wasn't very loud compared to the camp noise and the music and the low ominous growl of the river running wild, but she heard it all the same. only maybe it wasn't her ears that heard it. the sound shivered through arya like a knife, sharp with rage and grief. more and more riders were emerging from the castle, a column four wide with no end to it, knights and squires and freeriders, torches and longaxes. and there was noise coming from behind as well. when arya looked around, she saw that there were only two of the huge feast tents where once there had been three. the one in the middle had collapsed. for a moment she did not understand what she was seeing. then the flames went licking up from the fallen tent, and now the other two were collapsing, heavy oiled cloth settling down on the men beneath. a flight of fire arrows streaked through the air. the second tent took fire, and then the third. the screams grew so loud she could hear words through the music. dark shapes moved in front of the flames, the steel of their armor shining orange from afar. a battle, arya knew. it's a battle. and the riders... she had no more time to watch the tents then. with the river overflowing its banks, the dark swirling waters at the end of the drawbridge reached as high as a horse's belly, but the riders splashed through them all the same, spurred on by the music. for once the same song was coming from both castles. i know this song, arya realized suddenly. tom o' sevens had sung it for them, that rainy night the outlaws had sheltered in the brewhouse with the brothers. and who are you, the proud lord said, that i must bow so low? the frey riders were struggling through the mud and reeds, but some of them had seen the wayn. she watched as three riders left the main column, pounding through the shallows. only a cat of a different coat, that's all the truth i know. clegane cut stranger loose with a single slash of his sword and leapt onto his back. the courser knew what was wanted of him. he pricked up his ears and wheeled toward the charging destriers. in a coat of gold or a coat of red, a lion still has claws. and mine are long and sharp, my lord, as long and sharp as yours. arya had prayed a hundred hundred times for the hound to die, but now... there was a rock in her hand, slimy with mud, and she didn't even remember picking it up. who do i throw it at? she jumped at the clash of metal as clegane turned aside the first longaxe. while he was engaged with the first man, the second circled behind him and aimed a blow for the small of his back. stranger was wheeling, so the hound took only a glancing blow, enough to rip a great gash in his baggy peasant's blouse and expose the mail below. he is one against three. arya still clutched her rock. they're sure to kill him. she thought of mycah, the butcher's boy who had been her friend so briefly. then she saw the third rider coming her way. arya moved behind the wayn. fear cuts deeper than swords. she could hear drums and warhorns and pipes, stallions trumpeting, the shriek of steel on steel, but all the sounds seemed so far away. there was only the oncoming horseman and the longaxe in his hand. he wore a surcoat over his armor and she saw the two towers that marked him for a frey. she did not understand. her uncle was marrying lord frey's daughter, the freys were her brother's friends. don't! she screamed as he rode around the wayn, but he paid no mind. when he charged arya threw the rock, the way she'd once thrown a crabapple at gendry. she'd gotten gendry right between the eyes, but this time her aim was off, and the stone caromed sideways off his temple. it was enough to break his charge, but no more. she retreated, darting across the muddy ground on the balls of her feet, putting the wayn between them once more. the knight followed at a trot, only darkness behind his eyeslit. she hadn't even dented his helm. they went round once, twice, a third time. the knight cursed her. you can't run for - the axehead caught him square in the back of the head, crashing through his helm and the skull beneath and sending him flying face first from his saddle. behind him was the hound, still mounted on stranger. how did you get an axe? she almost asked, before she saw. one of the other freys was trapped beneath his dying horse, drowning in a foot of water. the third man was sprawled on his back, unmoving. he hadn't worn a gorget, and a foot of broken sword jutted from beneath his chin. get my helm, clegane growled at her. it was stuffed at the bottom of a sack of dried apples, in the back of the wayn behind the pickled pigs' feet. arya upended the sack and tossed it to him. he snatched it one-handed from the air and lowered it over his head, and where the man had sat only a steel dog remained, snarling at the fires. my brother... dead, he shouted back at her. do you think they'd slaughter his men and leave him alive? he turned his head back toward the camp. look. look, damn you. the camp had become a battlefield. no, a butcher's den. the flames from the feasting tents reached halfway up the sky. some of the barracks tents were burning too, and half a hundred silk pavilions. everywhere swords were singing. and now the rains weep o'er his hall, with not a soul to hear. she saw two knights ride down a running man. a wooden barrel came crashing onto one of the burning tents and burst apart, and the flames leapt twice as high. a catapult, she knew. the castle was flinging oil or pitch or something. come with me. sandor clegane reached down a hand. we have to get away from here, and now. stranger tossed his head impatiently, his nostrils flaring at the scent of blood. the song was done. there was only one solitary drum, its slow monotonous beats echoing across the river like the pounding of some monstrous heart. the black sky wept, the river grumbled, men cursed and died. arya had mud in her teeth and her face was wet. rain. it's only rain. that's all it is. we're here, she shouted. her voice sounded thin and scared, a little girl's voice. robb's just in the castle, and my mother. the gate's even open. there were no more freys riding out. i came so far. we have to go get my mother. stupid little bitch. fires glinted off the snout of his helm, and made the steel teeth shine. you go in there, you won't come out. maybe frey will let you kiss your mother's corpse. maybe we can save her... maybe you can. i'm not done living yet. he rode toward her, crowding her back toward the wayn. stay or go, she-wolf live or die. your - arya spun away from him and darted for the gate. the portcullis was coming down, but slowly. i have to run faster. the mud slowed her, though, and then the water. run fast as a wolf. the drawbridge had begun to lift, the water running off it in a sheet, the mud falling in heavy clots. faster. she heard loud splashing and looked back to see stranger pounding after her, sending up gouts of water with every stride. she saw the longaxe too, still wet with blood and brains. and arya ran. not for her brother now, not even for her mother, but for herself. she ran faster than she had ever run before, her head down and her feet churning up the river, she ran from him as mycah must have run. his axe took her in the back of the head. she could feel the hole inside her every morning when she woke. it wasn't hunger, though sometimes there was that too. it was a hollow place, an emptiness where her heart had been, where her brothers had lived, and her parents. her head hurt too. not as bad as it had at first, but still pretty bad. arya was used to that, though, and at least the lump was going down. but the hole inside her stayed the same. the hole will never feel any better, she told herself when she went to sleep. some mornings arya did not want to wake at all. she would huddle beneath her cloak with her eyes squeezed shut and try to will herself back to sleep. if the hound would only have left her alone, she would have slept all day and all night. and dreamed. that was the best part, the dreaming. she dreamed of wolves most every night. a great pack of wolves, with her at the head. she was bigger than any of them, stronger, swifter, faster. she could outrun horses and outfight lions. when she bared her teeth even men would run from her, her belly was never empty long, and her fur kept her warm even when the wind was blowing cold. and her brothers and sisters were with her, many and more of them, fierce and terrible and hers. they would never leave her. but if her nights were full of wolves, her days belonged to the dog. sandor clegane made her get up every morning, whether she wanted to or not. he would curse at her in his raspy voice, or yank her to her feet and shake her. once he dumped a helm full of cold water all over her head. she bounced up sputtering and shivering and tried to kick him, but he only laughed. dry off and feed the bloody horses, he told her, and she did. they had two now, stranger and a sorrel palfrey mare arya had named craven, because sandor said she'd likely run off from the twins the same as them. they'd found her wandering riderless through a field the morning after the slaughter. she was a good enough horse, but arya could not love a coward. stranger would have fought. still, she tended the mare as best she knew. it was better than riding double with the hound. and craven might have been a coward, but she was young and strong as well. arya thought that she might be able to outrun stranger, if it came to it. the hound no longer watched her as closely as he had. sometimes he did not seem to care whether she stayed or went, and he no longer bound her up in a cloak at night. one night i'll kill him in his sleep, she told herself, but she never did. one day i'll ride away on craven, and he won't be able to catch me, she thought, but she never did that either. where would she go? winterfell was gone. her grandfather's brother was at riverrun, but he didn't know her, no more than she knew him. maybe lady smallwood would take her in at acorn hall, but maybe she wouldn't. besides, arya wasn't even sure she could find acorn hall again. sometimes she thought she might go back to shama's inn, if the floods hadn't washed it away. she could stay with hot pie, or maybe lord beric would find her there. anguy would teach her to use a bow, and she could ride with gendry and be an outlaw, like wenda the white fawn in the songs. but that was just stupid, like something sansa might dream. hot pie and gendry had left her just as soon as they could, and lord beric and the outlaws only wanted to ransom her, just like the hound. none of them wanted her around. they were never my pack, not even hot pie and gendry. i was stupid to think so, just a stupid little girl, and no wolf at all. so she stayed with the hound. they rode every day, never sleeping twice in the same place, avoiding towns and villages and castles as best they could. once she asked sandor clegane where they were going. away, he said. that's all you need to know. you're not worth spit to me now, and i don't want to hear your whining. i should have let you run into that bloody castle. you should have, she agreed, thinking of her mother. you'd be dead if i had. you ought to thank me. you ought to sing me a pretty little song, the way your sister did. did you hit her with an axe too? i hit you with the flat of the axe, you stupid little bitch. if i'd hit you with the blade there'd still be chunks of your head floating down the green fork. now shut your bloody mouth. if i had any sense i'd give you to the silent sisters. they cut the tongues out of girls who talk too much. that wasn't fair of him to say. aside from that one time, arya hardly talked at all. whole days passed when neither of them said anything. she was too empty to talk, and the hound was too angry. she could feel the fury in him; she could see it on his face, the way his mouth would tighten and twist, the looks he gave her. whenever he took his axe to chop some wood for a fire, he would slide into a cold rage, hacking savagely at the tree or the deadfall or the broken limb, until they had twenty times as much kindling and firewood as they'd needed. sometimes he would be so sore and tired afterward that he would lie down and go right to sleep without even lighting a fire. arya hated it when that happened, and hated him too. those were the nights when she stared the longest at the axe. it looks awfully heavy, but i bet i could swing it. she wouldn't hit him with the flat, either. sometimes in their wanderings they glimpsed other people; farmers in their fields, swineherds with their pigs, a milkmaid leading a cow, a squire carrying a message down a rutted road. she never wanted to speak to them either, it was as if they lived in some distant land and spoke a queer alien tongue; they had nothing to do with her, or her with them. besides, it wasn't safe to be seen. from time to time columns of horsemen passed down the winding farm roads, the twin towers of frey flying before them. hunting for stray northmen, the hound said when they had passed. any time you hear hooves, get your head down fast, it's not like to be a friend. one day, in an earthen hollow made by the roots of a fallen oak, they came face to face with another survivor of the twins. the badge on his breast showed a pink maiden dancing in a swirl of silk, and he told them he was ser marq piper's man; a bowman, though he'd lost his bow. his left shoulder was all twisted and swollen where it met his arm; a blow from a mace, he said, it had broken his shoulder and smashed his chainmail deep into his flesh. a northman, it was, he wept. his badge was a bloody man, and he saw mine and made a jape, red man and pink maiden, maybe they should get together. i drank to his lord bolton, he drank to ser marq, and we drank together to lord edmure and lady roslin and the king in the north. and then he killed me. his eyes were fever bright when he said that, and arya could tell that it was true. his shoulder was swollen grotesquely, and pus and blood had stained his whole left side. there was a stink to him too. he smells like a corpse. the man begged them for a drink of wine. if i'd had any wine, i'd have drunk it myself, the hound told him. i can give you water, and the gift of mercy. the archer looked at him a long while before he said, you're joffrey's dog. my own dog now. do you want the water? aye. the man swallowed. and the mercy. please. they had passed a small pond a short ways back. sandor gave arya his helm and told her to fill it, so she trudged back to the water's edge. mud squished over the toe of her boots. she used the dog's head as a pail. water ran out through the eyeholes, but the bottom of the helm still held a lot. when she came back, the archer turned his face up and she poured the water into his mouth. he gulped it down as fast as she could pour, and what he couldn't gulp ran down his cheeks into the brown blood that crusted his whiskers, until pale pink tears dangled from his beard. when the water was gone he clutched the helm and licked the steel. good, he said. i wish it was wine, though. i wanted wine. me too. the hound eased his dagger into the man's chest almost tenderly, the weight of his body driving the point through his surcoat, ringmail, and the quilting beneath. as he slid the blade back out and wiped it on the dead man, he looked at arya. that's where the heart is, girl. that's how you kill a man. that's one way. will we bury him? why? sandor said. he don't care, and we've got no spade. leave him for the wolves and wild dogs. your brothers and mine. he gave her a hard look. first we rob him, though. there were two silver stags in the archer's purse, and almost thirty coppers. his dagger had a pretty pink stone in the hilt. the hound hefted the knife in his hand, then flipped it toward arya. she caught it by the hilt, slid it through her belt, and felt a little better. it wasn't needle, but it was steel. the dead man had a quiver of arrows too, but arrows weren't much good without a bow. his boots were too big for arya and too small for the hound, so those they left. she took his kettle helm as well, even though it came down almost past her nose, so she had to tilt it back to see. he must have had a horse as well, or he wouldn't have got away, clegane said, peering about, but it's bloody well gone, i'd say. no telling how long he's been here. by the time they found themselves in the foothills of the mountains of the moon, the rains had mostly stopped. arya could see the sun and moon and stars, and it seemed to her that they were heading eastward. where are we going? she asked again. this time the hound answered her. you have an aunt in the eyrie. might be she'll want to ransom your scrawny arse, though the gods know why. once we find the high road, we can follow it all the way to the bloody gate. aunt lysa. the thought left arya feeling empty. it was her mother she wanted, not her mother's sister. she didn't know her mother's sister any more than she knew her great uncle blackfish. we should have gone into the castle. they didn't really know that her mother was dead, or robb either. it wasn't like they'd seen them die or anything. maybe lord frey had just taken them captive. maybe they were chained up in his dungeon, or maybe the freys were taking them to king's landing so joffrey could chop their heads off. they didn't know. we should go back, she suddenly decided. we should go back to the twins and get my mother. she can't be dead. we have to help her. i thought your sister was the one with a head full of songs, the hound growled. frey might have kept your mother alive to ransom, that's true. but there's no way in seven hells i'm going to pluck her out of his castle all by my bloody self. not by yourself. i'd come too. he made a sound that was almost a laugh. that will scare the piss out of the old man. you're just afraid to die! she said scornfully. now clegane did laugh. death don't scare me. only fire. now be quiet, or i'll cut your tongue out myself and save the silent sisters the bother. it's the vale for us. arya didn't think he'd really cut her tongue out; he was just saying that the way pinkeye used to say he'd beat her bloody. all the same, she wasn't going to try him. sandor clegane was no pinkeye. pinkeye didn't cut people in half or hit them with axes. not even with the flat of axes. that night she went to sleep thinking of her mother, and wondering if she should kill the hound in his sleep and rescue lady catelyn herself. when she closed her eyes she saw her mother's face against the back of her eyelids. she's so close i could almost smell her... ... and then she could smell her. the scent was faint beneath the other smells, beneath moss and mud and water, and the stench of rotting reeds and rotting men. she padded slowly through the soft ground to the river's edge, lapped up a drink, the lifted her head to sniff. the sky was grey and thick with cloud, the river green and full of floating things. dead men clogged the shallows, some still moving as the water pushed them, others washed up on the banks. her brothers and sisters swarmed around them, tearing at the rich ripe flesh. the crows were there too, screaming at the wolves and filling the air with feathers. their blood was hotter, and one of her sisters had snapped at one as it took flight and caught it by the wing. it made her want a crow herself. she wanted to taste the blood, to hear the bones crunch between her teeth, to fill her belly with warm flesh instead of cold. she was hungry and the meat was all around, but she knew she could not eat. the scent was stronger now. she pricked her ears up and listened to the grumbles of her pack, the shriek of angry crows, the whirr of wings and sound of running water. somewhere far off she could hear horses and the calls of living men, but they were not what mattered. only the scent mattered. she sniffed the air again. there it was, and now she saw it too, something pale and white drifting down the river, turning where it brushed against a snag. the reeds bowed down before it. she splashed noisily through the shallows and threw herself into the deeper water, her legs churning. the current was strong but she was stronger. she swam, following her nose. the river smells were rich and wet, but those were not the smells that pulled her. she paddled after the sharp red whisper of cold blood, the sweet cloying stench of death. she chased them as she had often chased a red deer through the trees, and in the end she ran them down, and her jaw closed around a pale white arm. she shook it to make it move, but there was only death and blood in her mouth. by now she was tiring, and it was all she could do to pull the body back to shore. as she dragged it up the muddy bank, one of her little brothers came prowling, his tongue lolling from his mouth. she had to snarl to drive him off, or else he would have fed. only then did she stop to shake the water from her fur. the white thing lay facedown in the mud, her dead flesh wrinkled and pale, cold blood trickling from her throat. rise, she thought. rise and eat and run with us. the sound of horses turned her head. men. they were coming from downwind, so she had not smelled them, but now they were almost here. men on horses, with flapping black and yellow and pink wings and long shiny claws in hand. some of her younger brothers bared their teeth to defend the food they'd found, but she snapped at them until they scattered. that was the way of the wild. deer and hares and crows fled before wolves, and wolves fled from men. she abandoned the cold white prize in the mud where she had dragged it, and ran, and felt no shame. when morning came, the hound did not need to shout at arya or shake her awake. she had woken before him for a change, and even watered the horses. they broke their fast in silence, until sandor said, this thing about your mother... it doesn't matter, arya said in a dull voice. i know she's dead. i saw her in a dream. the hound looked at her a long time, then nodded. no more was said of it. they rode on toward the mountains. in the higher hills, they came upon a tiny isolated village surrounded by grey-green sentinels and tall blue soldier pines, and clegane decided to risk going in. we need food, he said, and a roof over our heads. they're not like to know what happened at the twins, and with any luck they won't know me. the villagers were building a wooden palisade around their homes, and when they saw the breadth of the hound's shoulders they offered them food and shelter and even coin for work. if there's wine as well, i'll do it, he growled at them. in the end, he settled for ale, and drank himself to sleep each night. his dream of selling arya to lady arryn died there in the hills, though. there's frost above us and snow in the high passes, the village elder said. if you don't freeze or starve, the shadowcats will get you, or the cave bears. there's the clans as well. the burned men are fearless since timett one-eye came back from the war. and half a year ago, gunthor son of gurn led the stone crows down on a village not eight miles from here. they took every woman and every scrap of grain, and killed half the men. they have steel now, good swords and mail hauberks, and they watch the high road - the stone crows, the milk snakes, the sons of the mist, all of them. might be you'd take a few with you, but in the end they'd kill you and make off with your daughter. i'm not his daughter, arya might have shouted, if she hadn't felt so tired. she was no one's daughter now. she was no one. not arya, not weasel, not nan nor any nor squab, not even lumpyhead. she was only some girl who ran with a dog by day, and dreamed of wolves by night. it was quiet in the village. they had beds stuffed with straw and not too many lice, the food was plain but filling, and the air smelled of pines. all the same, arya soon decided that she hated it. the villagers were cowards. none of them would even look at the hound's face, at least not for long. some of the women tried to put her in a dress and make her do needlework, but they weren't lady smallwood and she was having none of it. and there was one girl who took to following her, the village elder's daughter. she was of an age with arya, but just a child; she cried if she skinned a knee, and carried a stupid cloth doll with her everywhere she went. the doll was made up to look like a man-at-arms, sort of, so the girl called him ser soldier and bragged how he kept her safe. go away, arya told her half a hundred times. just leave me be. she wouldn't, though, so finally arya took the doll away from her, ripped it open, and pulled the rag stuffing out of its belly with a finger. now he really looks like a soldier! she said, before she threw the doll in a brook. after that the girl stopped pestering her, and arya spent her days grooming craven and stranger or walking in the woods. sometimes she would find a stick and practice her needlework, but then she would remember what had happened at the twins and smash it against a tree until it broke. might be we should stay here awhile, the hound told her, after a fortnight. he was drunk on ale, but more brooding than sleepy. we'd never reach the eyrie, and the freys will still be hunting survivors in the riverlands. sounds like they need swords here, with these clansmen raiding. we can rest up, maybe find a way to get a letter to your aunt. arya's face darkened when she heard that. she didn't want to stay, but there was nowhere to go, either. the next morning, when the hound went off to chop down trees and haul logs, she crawled back into bed. but when the work was done and the tall wooden palisade was finished, the village elder made it plain that there was no place for them. come winter, we will be hard pressed to feed our own, he explained. and you... a man like you brings blood with him. sandor's mouth tightened. so you do know who i am. aye. we don't get travelers here, that's so, but we go to market, and to fairs. we know about king joffrey's dog. when these stone crows come calling, you might be glad to have a dog. might be. the man hesitated, then gathered up his courage. but they say you lost your belly for fighting at the blackwater. they say - i know what they say. sandor's voice sounded like two woodsaws grinding together. pay me, and we'll be gone. when they left, the hound had a pouch full of coppers, a skin of sour ale, and a new sword. it was a very old sword, if truth be told, though new to him. he swapped its owner the longaxe he'd taken at the twins, the one he'd used to raise the lump on arya's head. the ale was gone in less than a day, but clegane sharpened the sword every night, cursing the man he'd swapped with for every nick and spot of rust. if he lost his belly for fighting, why does he care if his sword is sharp? it was not a question arya dared ask him, but she thought on it a lot. was that why he'd run from the twins and carried her off? back in the riverlands, they found that the rains had ebbed away, and the flood waters had begun to recede. the hound turned south, back toward the trident. we'll make for riverrun, he told arya as they roasted a hare he'd killed. maybe the blackfish wants to buy himself a she- wolf he doesn't know me. he won't even know i'm really me. arya was tired of making for riverrun. she had been making for riverrun for years, it seemed, without ever getting there. every time she made for riverrun, she ended up someplace worse. he won't give you any ransom. he'll probably just hang you. he's free to try. he turned the spit. he doesn't talk like he's lost his belly for fighting. i know where we could go, arya said. she still had one brother left. jon will want me, even if no one else does. he'll call me little sister and muss my hair. it was a long way, though, and she didn't think she could get there by herself. she hadn't even been able to reach riverrun. we could go to the wall. sandor's laugh was half a growl. the little wolf bitch wants to join the night's watch, does she? my brother's on the wall, she said stubbornly. his mouth gave a twitch. the wall's a thousand leagues from here. we'd need to fight through the bloody freys just to reach the neck. there's lizard lions in those swamps that eat wolves every day for breakfast. and if we did reach the north with our skins intact, there's ironborn in half the castles, and thousands of bloody buggering northmen as well. are you scared of them? she asked. have you lost your belly for fighting? for a moment she thought he was going to hit her. by then the hare was brown, though, skin crackling and grease popping as it dripped down into the cookfire. sandor took it off the stick, ripped it apart with his big hands, and tossed half of it into arya's lap. there's nothing wrong with my belly, he said as he pulled off a leg, but i don't give a rat's arse for you or your brother. i have a brother too. outside the inn on a weathered gibbet, a woman's bones were twisting and rattling at every gust of wind. i know this inn. there hadn't been a gibbet outside the door when she had slept here with her sister sansa under the watchful eye of septa mordane, though. we don't want to go in, arya decided suddenly, there might be ghosts. you know how long it's been since i had a cup of wine? sandor swung down from the saddle. besides, we need to learn who holds the ruby ford. stay with the horses if you want, it's no hair off my arse. what if they know you? sandor no longer troubled to hide his face. he no longer seemed to care who knew him. they might want to take you captive. let them try. he loosened his longsword in its scabbard, and pushed through the door. arya would never have a better chance to escape. she could ride off on craven and take stranger too. she chewed her lip. then she led the horses to the stables, and went in after him. they know him. the silence told her that. but that wasn't the worst thing. she knew them too. not the skinny innkeep, nor the women, nor the fieldhands by the hearth. but the others. the soldiers. she knew the soldiers. looking for your brother, sandor? polliver's hand was down the bodice of the girl on his lap, but now he slid it out. looking for a cup of wine. innkeep, a flagon of red. clegane threw a handful of coppers on the floor. i don't want no trouble, ser, the innkeep said. then don't call me ser. his mouth twitched. are you deaf, fool? i ordered wine. as the man ran off, clegane shouted after him, two cups! the girl's thirsty too! there are only three, arya thought. polliver gave her a fleeting glance and the boy beside him never looked at her at all, but the third one gazed long and hard. he was a man of middling height and build, with a face so ordinary that it was hard to say how old he was. the tickler. the tickler and polliver both. the boy was a squire, judging by his age and dress. he had a big white pimple on one side of his nose, and some red ones on his forehead, is this the lost puppy ser gregor spoke of? he asked the tickler. the one who piddled in the rushes and ran off? the tickler put a warning hand on the boy's arm, and gave a short sharp shake of his head. arya read that plain enough. the squire didn't, or else he didn't care. ser said his puppy brother tucked his tail between his legs when the battle got too warm at king's landing. he said he ran off whimpering. he gave the hound a stupid mocking grin. clegane studied the boy and never said a word. polliver shoved the girl off his lap and got to his feet. the lad's drunk, he said. the man-at-arms was almost as tall as the hound, though not so heavily muscled. a spade-shaped beard covered his jaws and jowls, thick and black and neatly trimmed, but his head was more bald than not. he can't hold his wine, is all. then he shouldn't drink. the puppy doesn't scare... the boy began, till the tickler casually twisted his ear between thumb and forefinger. the words became a squeal of pain. the innkeep came scurrying back with two stone cups and a flagon on a pewter platter. sandor lifted the flagon to his mouth. arya could see the muscles in his neck working as he gulped. when he slammed it back down on the table, half the wine was gone. now you can pour. best pick up those coppers too, it's the only coin you're like to see today. we'll pay when we're done drinking, said polliver. when you're done drinking you'll tickle the innkeep to see where he keeps his gold. the way you always do. the innkeep suddenly remembered something in the kitchen. the locals were leaving too, and the girls were gone. the only sound in the common room was the faint crackling of the fire in the hearth. we should go too, arya knew. if you're looking for ser, you come too late, polliver said. he was at harrenhal, but now he's not. the queen sent for him. he wore three blades on his belt, arya saw; a longsword on his left hip, and on his right a dagger and a slimmer blade, too long to be a dirk and too short to be a sword. king joffrey's dead, you know, he added. poisoned at his own wedding feast. arya edged farther into the room. joffrey's dead. she could almost see him, with his blond curls and his mean smile and his fat soft lips. jofftey's dead! she knew it ought to make her happy, but somehow she still felt empty inside. joffrey was dead, but if robb was dead too, what did it matter? so much for my brave brothers of the kingsguard. the hound gave a snort of contempt. who killed him? the imp, it's thought. him and his little wife. what wife? i forgot, you've been hiding under a rock. the northern girl. winterfell's daughter. we heard she killed the king with a spell, and afterward changed into a wolf with big leather wings like a bat, and flew out a tower window. but she left the dwarf behind and cersei means to have his head. that's stupid, arya thought. sansa only knows songs, not spells, and she'd never marry the imp. the hound sat on the bench closest the door. his mouth twitched, but only the burned side. she ought to dip him in wildfire and cook him. or tickle him till the moon turns black. he raised his wine cup and drained it straightaway. he's one of them, arya thought when she saw that. she bit her lip so hard she tasted blood. he's just like they are. i should kill him when he sleeps. so gregor took harrenhal? sandor said. didn't require much taking, said polliver. the sellswords fled as soon as they knew we were coming, all but a few. one of the cooks opened a postern gate for us, to get back at hoat for cutting off his foot. he chuckled. we kept him to cook for us, a couple wenches to warm our beds, and put all the rest to the sword. all the rest? arya blurted out. well, ser kept hoat to pass the time. sandor said, the blackfish is still in riverrun? not for long, said polliver. he's under siege. old frey's going to hang edmure tully unless he yields the castle. the only real fighting's around raventree. blackwoods and brackens. the brackens are ours now. the hound poured a cup of wine for arya and another for himself, and drank it down while staring at the hearthfire. the little bird flew away, did she? well, bloody good for her. she shit on the imp's head and flew off. they'll find her, said polliver. if it takes half the gold in casterly rock. a pretty girl, i hear, said the tickler. honey sweet. he smacked his lips and smiled. and courteous, the hound agreed. a proper little lady. not like her bloody sister. they found her too, said polliver. the sister. she's for bolton's bastard, i hear. arya sipped her wine so they could not see her mouth. she didn't understand what polliver was talking about. sansa has no other sister. sandor clegane laughed aloud. what's so bloody funny? asked polliver. the hound never flicked an eye at arya. if i'd wanted you to know, i'd have told you. are there ships at saltpans? saltpans? how should i know? the traders are back at maidenpool, i heard. randyll tarly took the castle and locked mooton in a tower cell. i haven't heard shit about saltpans. the tickler leaned forward. would you put to sea without bidding farewell to your brother? it gave arya chills to hear him ask a question. ser would sooner you returned to harrenhal with us, sandor. i bet he would. or king's landing... bugger that. bugger him. bugger you. the tickler shrugged, straightened, and reached a hand behind his head to rub the back of his neck. everything seemed to happen at once then; sandor lurched to his feet, polliver drew his longsword, and the tickler's hand whipped around in a blur to send something silver flashing across the common room. if the hound had not been moving, the knife might have cored the apple of his throat; instead it only grazed his ribs, and wound up quivering in the wall near the door. he laughed then, a laugh as cold and hollow as if it had come from the bottom of a deep well. i was hoping you'd do something stupid. his sword slid from its scabbard just in time to knock aside polliver's first cut. arya took a step backward as the long steel song began. the tickler came off the bench with a shortsword in one hand and a dagger in the other. even the chunky brown-haired squire was up, fumbling for his swordhilt. she snatched her wine cup off the table and threw it at his face. her aim was better than it had been at the twins. the cup hit him right on his big white pimple and he went down hard on his tail. polliver was a grim, methodical fighter, and he pressed sandor steadily backward, his heavy longsword moving with brutal precision. the hound's own cuts were sloppier, his parries rushed, his feet slow and clumsy. he's drunk, arya realized with dismay. he drank too much too fast, with no food in his belly. and the tickler was sliding around the wall to get behind him. she grabbed the second wine cup and flung it at him, but he was quicker than the squire had been and ducked his head in time. the look he gave her then was cold with promise. is there gold hidden in the village? she could hear him ask. the stupid squire was clutching the edge of a table and pulling himself to his knees. arya could taste the beginnings of panic in the back of her throat. fear cuts deeper than swords. fears cuts deeper... sandor gave a grunt of pain. the burned side of his face ran red from temple to cheek, and the stub of his ear was gone. that seemed to make him angry. he drove back polliver with a furious attack, hammering at him with the old nicked longsword he had swapped for in the hills. the bearded man gave way, but none of the cuts so much as touched him. and then the tickler leapt over a bench quick as a snake, and slashed at the back of the hound's neck with the edge of his short sword. they're killing him. arya had no more cups, but there was something better to throw. she drew the dagger they'd robbed off the dying archer and tried to fling it at the tickler the way he'd done. it wasn't the same as throwing a rock or a crabapple, though. the knife wobbled, and hit him in the arm hilt first. he never even felt it. he was too intent on clegane. as he stabbed, clegane twisted violently aside, winning himself half a heartbeat's respite. blood ran down his face and from the gash in his neck. both of the mountain's men came after him hard, polliver hacking at his head and shoulders while the tickler darted in to stab at back and belly. the heavy stone flagon was still on the table. arya grabbed it with two hands, but as she lifted it someone grabbed her arm. the flagon slipped from her fingers and crashed to the floor. wrenched around, she found herself nose to nose with the squire. you stupid, you forgot all about him. his big white pimple had burst, she saw. are you the puppy's puppy? he had his sword in his right hand and her arm in his left, but her own hands were free, so she jerked his knife from its sheath and sheathed it again in his belly, twisting. he wasn't wearing mail or even boiled leather, so it went right in, the same way needle had when she killed the stableboy at king's landing. the squire's eyes got big and he let go of her arm. arya spun to the door and wrenched the tickler's knife from the wall. polliver and the tickler had driven the hound into a comer behind a bench, and one of them had given him an ugly red gash on his upper thigh to go with his other wounds. sandor was leaning against the wall, bleeding and breathing noisily. he looked as though he could barely stand, let alone fight. throw down the sword, and we'll take you back to harrenhal, polliver told him. so gregor can finish me himself? the tickler said, maybe he'll give you to me. if you want me, come get me. sandor pushed away from the wall and stood in a half-crouch behind the bench, his sword held across his body. you think we won't? said polliver. you're drunk. might be, said the hound, but you're dead. his foot lashed out and caught the bench, driving it hard into polliver's shins. somehow the bearded man kept his feet, but the hound ducked under his wild slash and brought his own sword up in a vicious backhand cut. blood spattered on the ceiling and walls. the blade caught in the middle of polliver's face, and when the hound wrenched it loose half his head came with it. the tickler backed away. arya could smell his fear. the shortsword in his hand suddenly seemed almost a toy against the long blade the hound was holding, and he wasn't armored either. he moved swiftly, light on his feet, never taking his eyes off sandor clegane. it was the easiest thing in the world for arya to step up behind him and stab him. is there gold hidden in the village? she shouted as she drove the blade up through his back. is there silver? gems? she stabbed twice more. is there food? where is lord beric? she was on top of him by then, still stabbing. where did he go? how many men were with him? how many knights? how many bowmen? how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many? is there gold in the village? her hands were red and sticky when sandor dragged her off him. enough, was all he said. he was bleeding like a butchered pig himself, and dragging one leg when he walked. there's one more, arya reminded him. the squire had pulled the knife out of his belly and was trying to stop the blood with his hands. when the hound yanked him upright, he screamed and started to blubber like a baby. mercy, he wept, please. don't kill me. mother have mercy. do i look like your bloody mother? the hound looked like nothing human. you killed this one too, he told arya. pricked him in his bowels, that's the end of him. he'll be a long time dying, though. the boy didn't seemed to hear him. i came for the girls, he whimpered. ... make me a man, polly said... oh, gods, please, take me to a castle... a maester, take me to a maester, my father's got gold... it was only for the girls... mercy, ser. the hound gave him a crack across the face that made him scream again. don't call me ser. he turned back to arya. this one is yours, she-wolf you do it. she knew what he meant. arya went to polliver and knelt in his blood long enough to undo his swordbelt. hanging beside his dagger was a slimmer blade, too long to be a dirk, too short to be a man's sword... but it felt just right in her hand. you remember where the heart is? the hound asked. she nodded. the squire rolled his eyes. mercy. needle slipped between his ribs and gave it to him. good. sandor's voice was thick with pain. if these three were whoring here, gregor must hold the ford as well as harrenhal. more of his pets could ride up any moment, and we've killed enough of the bloody buggers for one day. where will we go? she asked. saltpans. he put a big hand on her shoulder to keep from falling. get some wine, she-wolf. and take whatever coin they have as well, we'll need it. if there's ships at saltpans, we can reach the vale by sea. his mouth twitched at her, as more blood ran down from where his ear had been. maybe lady lysa will marry you to her little robert. there's a match i'd like to see. he started to laugh, then groaned instead. when the time came to leave, he needed arya's help to get back up on stranger. he had tied a strip of cloth about his neck and another around his thigh, and taken the squire's cloak off its peg by the door. the cloak was green, with a green arrow on a white bend, but when the hound wadded it up and pressed it to his ear it soon turned red. arya was afraid he would collapse the moment they set out, but somehow he stayed in the saddle. they could not risk meeting whoever held the ruby ford, so instead of following the kingsroad they angled south by east, through weedy fields, woods, and marshes. it was hours before they reached the banks of the trident. the river had returned meekly to its accustomed channel, arya saw, all its wet brown rage vanished with the rains. it's tired too, she thought. close by the water's edge, they found some willows rising from a jumble of weathered rocks. together the rocks and trees formed a sort of natural fort where they could hide from both river and trail. here will do, the hound said. water the horses and gather some deadwood for a fire. when he dismounted, he had to catch himself on a tree limb to keep from falling. won't the smoke be seen? anyone wants to find us, all they need to do is follow my blood. water and wood. but bring me that wineskin first. when he got the fire going, sandor propped up his helm in the flames, emptied half the wineskin into it, and collapsed back against a jut of moss-covered stone as if he never meant to rise again. he made arya wash out the squire's cloak and cut it into strips. those went into his helm as well. if i had more wine, i'd drink till i was dead to the world. maybe i ought to send you back to that bloody inn for another skin or three. no, arya said. he wouldn't, would he? if he does, i'll just leave him and ride off. sandor laughed at the fear on her face. a jest, wolf girl. a bloody jest. find me a stick, about so long and not too big around. and wash the mud off it. i hate the taste of mud. he didn't like the first two sticks she brought him. by the time she found one that suited him, the flames had scorched his dog's snout black all the way to the eyes. inside the wine was boiling madly. get the cup from my bedroll and dip it half full, he told her. be careful. you knock the damn thing over, i will send you back for more. take the wine and pour it on my wounds. think you can do that? arya nodded. then what are you waiting for? he growled. her knuckles brushed the steel the first time she filled the cup, burning her so badly she got blisters. arya had to bite her lip to keep from screaming. the hound used the stick for the same purpose, clamping it between his teeth as she poured. she did the gash in his thigh first, then the shallower cut on the back of his neck. sandor coiled his right hand into a fist and beat against the ground when she did his leg. when it came to his neck, he bit the stick so hard it broke, and she had to find him a new one. she could see the terror in his eyes. turn your head. she trickled the wine down over the raw red flesh where his ear had been, and fingers of brown blood and red wine crept over his jaw. he did scream then, despite the stick. then he passed out from the pain. arya figured the rest out by herself. she fished the strips they'd made of the squire's cloak out of the bottom of the helm and used them to bind the cuts. when she came to his ear, she had to wrap up half his head to stop the bleeding. by then dusk was settling over the trident. she let the horses graze, then hobbled them for the night and made herself as comfortable as she could in a niche between two rocks. the fire burned a while and died. arya watched the moon through the branches overhead. ser gregor the mountain, she said softly. dunsen, raff the sweetling, ser ilyn, ser meryn, queen cersei. it made her feel queer to leave out polliver and the tickler. and joffrey too. she was glad he was dead, but she wished she could have been there to see him die, or maybe kill him herself. polliver said that sansa killed him, and the imp. could that be true? the imp was a lannister, and sansa... i wish i could change into a wolf and grow wings and fly away. if sansa was gone too, there were no more starks but her. jon was on the wall a thousand leagues away, but he was a snow, and these different aunts and uncles the hound wanted to sell her to, they weren't starks either. they weren't wolves. sandor moaned, and she rolled onto her side to look at him. she had left his name out too, she realized. why had she done that? she tried to think of mycah, but it was hard to remember what he'd looked like. she hadn't known him long. all he ever did was play at swords with me. the hound, she whispered, and, valar morghulis. maybe he'd be dead by morning... but when the pale dawn light came filtering through the trees, it was him who woke her with the toe of his boot. she had dreamed she was a wolf again, chasing a riderless horse up a hill with a pack behind her, but his foot brought her back just as they were closing for the kill. the hound was still weak, every movement slow and clumsy. he slumped in the saddle, and sweated, and his ear began to bleed through the bandage. he needed all his strength just to keep from falling off stranger. had the mountain's men come hunting them, she doubted if he would even be able to lift a sword. arya glanced over her shoulder, but there was nothing behind them but a crow flitting from tree to tree. the only sound was the river. long before noon, sandor clegane was reeling. there were hours of daylight still remaining when he called a halt. i need to rest, was all he said. this time when he dismounted he did fall. instead of trying to get back up he crawled weakly under a tree, and leaned up against the trunk. bloody hell, he cursed. bloody hell. when he saw arya staring at him, he said, i'd skin you alive for a cup of wine, girl. she brought him water instead. he drank a little of it, complained that it tasted of mud, and slid into a noisy fevered sleep. when she touched him, his skin was burning up. arya sniffed at his bandages the way maester luwin had done sometimes when treating her cut or scrape. his face had bled the worst, but it was the wound on his thigh that smelled funny to her. she wondered how far this saltpans was, and whether she could find it by herself. i wouldn't have to kill him. if i just rode off and left him, he'd die all by himself. he'll die of fever, and lie there beneath that tree until the end of days. but maybe it would be better if she killed him herself. she had killed the squire at the inn and he hadn't done anything except grab her arm. the hound had killed mycah. mycah and more. i bet he's killed a hundred mycahs. he probably would have killed her too, if not for the ransom. needle glinted as she drew it. polliver had kept it nice and sharp, at least. she turned her body sideways in a water dancer's stance without even thinking about it. dead leaves crunched beneath her feet. quick as a snake, she thought. smooth as summer silk. his eyes opened. you remember where the heart is? he asked in a hoarse whisper. as still as stone she stood. i... i was only... don't lie, he growled. i hate liars. i hate gutless frauds even worse. go on, do it. when arya did not move, he said, i killed your butcher's boy. i cut him near in half, and laughed about it after. he made a queer sound, and it took her a moment to realize he was sobbing. and the little bird, your pretty sister, i stood there in my white cloak and let them beat her. i took the bloody song, she never gave it. i meant to take her too. i should have. i should have fucked her bloody and ripped her heart out before leaving her for that dwarf. a spasm of pain twisted his face. do you mean to make me beg, bitch? do it! the gift of mercy... avenge your little michael... mycah. arya stepped away from him. you don't deserve the gift of mercy. the hound watched her saddle craven through eyes bright with fever. not once did he attempt to rise and stop her. but when she mounted, he said, a real wolf would finish a wounded animal. maybe some real wolves will find you, arya thought. maybe they'll smell you when the sun goes down. then he would learn what wolves did to dogs. you shouldn't have hit me with an axe, she said. you should have saved my mother. she turned her horse and rode away from him, and never looked back once. on a bright morning six days later, she came to a place where the trident began to widen out and the air smelled more of salt than trees. she stayed close to the water, passing fields and farms, and a little after midday a town appeared before her. saltpans, she hoped. a small castle dominated the town; no more than a holdfast, really, a single tall square keep with a bailey and a curtain wall. most of the shops and inns and alehouses around the harbor had been plundered or burned, though some looked still inhabited. but the port was there, and eastward spread the bay of crabs, its waters shimmering blue and green in the sun. and there were ships. three, thought arya, there are three. two were only river galleys, shallow draft boats made to ply the waters of the trident. the third was bigger, a salt sea trader with two banks of oars, a gilded prow, and three tall masts with furled purple sails. her hull was painted purple too. arya rode craven down to the docks to get a better look. strangers are not so strange in a port as they are in little villages, and no one seemed to care who she was or why she was here. i need silver. the realization made her bite her lip. they had found a stag and a dozen coppers on polliver, eight silvers on the pimply squire she'd killed, and only a couple of pennies in the tickler's purse. but the hound had told her to pull off his boots and slice open his blood- drenched clothes, and she'd turned up a stag in each toe, and three golden dragons sewn in the lining of his jerkin. sandor had kept it all, though. that wasn't fair. it was mine as much as his. if she had given him the gift of mercy... she hadn't, though. she couldn't go back, no more than she could beg for help. begging for help never gets you any. she would have to sell craven, and hope she brought enough. the stable had been burnt, she learned from a boy by the docks, but the woman who'd owned it was still trading behind the sept. arya found her easily; a big, robust woman with a good horsey smell to her. she liked craven at first look, asked arya how she'd come by her, and grinned at her answer. she's a well-bred horse, that's plain enough, and i don't doubt she belonged to a knight, sweetling, she said. but the knight wasn't no dead brother o' yours. i been dealing with the castle there many a year, so i know what gentleborn folk is like. this mare is well-bred, but you're not. she poked a finger at arya's chest. found her or stole her, never mind which, that's how it was. only way a scruffy little thing like you comes to ride a palfrey. arya bit her lip. does that mean you won't buy her? the woman chuckled. it means you'll take what i give you, sweetling. else we go down to the castle, and maybe you get nothing. or even hanged, for stealing some good knight's horse. a half-dozen other saltpans folks were around, going about their business, so arya knew she couldn't kill the woman. instead she had to bite her lip and let herself be cheated. the purse she got was pitifully flat, and when she asked for more for the saddle and bridle and blanket, the woman just laughed at her. she would never have cheated the hound, she thought during the long walk back to the docks. the distance seemed to have grown by miles since she'd ridden it. the purple galley was still there. if the ship had sailed while she was being robbed, that would have been too much to bear. a cask of mead was being rolled up the plank when she arrived. when she tried to follow, a sailor up on deck shouted down at her in a tongue she did not know. i want to see the captain, arya told him. he only shouted louder. but the commotion drew the attention of a stout grey-haired man in a coat of purple wool, and he spoke the common tongue. i am captain here, he said. what is your wish? be quick, child, we have a tide to catch. i want to go north, to the wall. here, i can pay. she gave him the purse. the night's watch has a castle on the sea. eastwatch. the captain spilled out the silver onto his palm and frowned. is this all you have? it is not enough, arya knew without being told. she could see it on his face. i wouldn't need a cabin or anything, she said. i could sleep down in the hold, or... take her on as cabin girl, said a passing oarsman, a bolt of wool over one shoulder. she can sleep with me. mind your tongue, the captain snapped. i could work, said arya. i could scrub the decks. i scrubbed a castle steps once. or i could row... no, he said, you couldn't. he gave her back her coins. it would make no difference if you could, child. the north has nothing for us. ice and war and pirates. we saw a dozen pirate ships making north as we rounded crackclaw point, and i have no wish to meet them again. from here we bend our oars for home, and i suggest you do the same. i have no home, arya thought. i have no pack. and now i don't even have a horse. the captain was turning away when she said, what ship is this, my lord? he paused long enough to give her a weary smile. this is the galleas titan's daughter, of the free city of braavos. wait, arya said suddenly. i have something else. she had stuffed it down inside her smallclothes to keep it safe, so she had to dig deep to find it, while the oarsmen laughed and the captain lingered with obvious impatience. one more silver will make no difference, child, he finally said. it's not silver. her fingers closed on it. it's iron. here. she pressed it into his hand, the small black iron coin that jaqen hghar had given her, so worn the man whose head it bore had no features. it's probably worthless, but... the captain turned it over and blinked at it, then looked at her again. this... how... ? jaqen said to say the words too. arya crossed her arms against her chest. valar morghulis, she said, as loud as if she'd known what it meant. valar dohaeris, he replied, touching his brow with two fingers. of course you shall have a cabin. 