the ashes fell like a soft grey snow. he padded over dry needles and brown leaves, to the edge of the wood where the pines grew thin. beyond the open fields he could see the great piles of man-rock stark against the swirling flames. the wind blew hot and rich with the smell of blood and burnt meat, so strong he began to slaver. yet as one smell drew them onward, others warned them back. he sniffed at the drifting smoke. men, many men, many horses, and fire, fire, fire. no smell was more dangerous, not even the hard cold smell of iron, the stuff of mane laws and hardskin. the smoke and ash clouded his eyes, and in the sky he saw a great winged snake whose roar was a river of flame. he bared his teeth, but then the snake was gone. behind the cliffs tall fires were eating up the stars. all through the night the fires crackled, and once there was a great roar and a crash that made the earth jump under his feet. dogs barked and whined and horses screamed in terror. howls shuddered through the night; the howls of the man-pack, wails of fear and wild shouts, laughter and screams. no beast was as noisy as man. he pricked up his ears and listened, and his brother growled at every sound. they prowled under the trees as a piney wind blew ashes and embers through the sky. in time the flames began to dwindle, and then they were gone. the sun rose grey and smoky that morning. only then did he leave the trees, stalking slow across the fields. his brother ran with him, drawn to the smell of blood and death. they padded silent through the dens the men had built of wood and grass and mud. many and more were burned and many and more were collapsed; others stood as they had before. yet nowhere did they see or scent a living man. crows blanketed the bodies and leapt into the air screeching when his brother and he came near. the wild dogs slunk away before them. beneath the great grey cliffs a horse was dying noisily, struggling to rise on a broken leg and screaming when he fell. his brother circled round him, then tore out his throat while the horse kicked feebly and rolled his eyes. when he approached the carcass his brother snapped at him and laid back his ears, and he cuffed him with a forepaw and bit his leg. they fought amidst the grass and dirt and falling ashes beside the dead horse, until his brother rolled on his back in submission, tail tucked low. one more bite at his upturned throat; then he fed, and let his brother feed, and licked the blood off his black fur. the dark place was pulling at him by then, the house of whispers where all men were blind. he could feel its cold fingers on him. the stony smell of it was a whisper up the nose. he struggled against the pull. he did not like the darkness. he was wolf. he was hunter and stalker and slayer, and he belonged with his brothers and sisters in the deep woods, running free beneath a starry sky. he sat on his haunches, raised his head, and howled. i will not go, he cried. i am wolf, i will not go. yet even so the darkness thickened, until it covered his eyes and filled his nose and stopped his ears, so he could not see or smell or hear or run, and the grey cliffs were gone and the dead horse was gone and his brother was gone and all was black and still and black and cold and black and dead and black... bran, a voice was whispering softly. bran, come back. come back now, bran. bran... he closed his third eye and opened the other two, the old two, the blind two. in the dark place all men were blind. but someone was holding him. he could feel arms around him, the warmth of a body snuggled close. he could hear hodor singing hodor, hodor, hodor, quietly to himself. bran? it was meera's voice. you were thrashing, making terrible noises. what did you see? winterfell. his tongue felt strange and thick in his mouth. one day when i come back i won't know how to talk anymore. it was winterfell. it was all on fire. there were horse smells, and steel, and blood. they killed everyone, meera. he felt her hand on his face, stroking back his hair. you're all sweaty, she said. do you need a drink? a drink, he agreed. she held a skin to his lips, and bran swallowed so fast the water ran out of the corner of his mouth. he was always weak and thirsty when he came back. and hungry too. he remembered the dying horse, the taste of blood in his mouth, the smell of burnt flesh in the morning air. how long? three days, said jojen. the boy had come up softfoot, or perhaps he had been there all along; in this blind black world, bran could not have said. we were afraid for you. i was with summer, bran said. too long. you'll starve yourself. meera dribbled a little water down your throat, and we smeared honey on your mouth, but it is not enough. i ate, said bran. we ran down an elk and had to drive off a treecat that tried to steal him. the cat had been tan-and-brown, only half the size of the direwolves, but fierce. he remembered the musky smell of him, and the way he had snarled down at them from the limb of the oak. the wolf ate, jojen said. not you. take care, bran. remember who you are. he remembered who he was all too well; bran the boy, bran the broken. better bran the beastling. was it any wonder he would sooner dream his summer dreams, his wolf dreams? here in the chill damp darkness of the tomb his third eye had finally opened. he could reach summer whenever he wanted, and once he had even touched ghost and talked to jon. though maybe he had only dreamed that. he could not understand why joien was always trying to pull him back now. bran used the strength of his arms to squirm to a sitting position. i have to tell osha what i saw. is she here? where did she go? the wildling woman herself gave answer. nowhere, m'lord. i've had my fill o' blundering in the black. he heard the scrape of a heel on stone, turned his head toward the sound, but saw nothing. he thought he could smell her, but he wasn't sure. all of them stank alike, and he did not have summer's nose to tell one from the other. last night i pissed on a king's foot, osha went on. might be it was morning, who can say? i was sleeping, but now i'm not. they all slept a lot, not only bran. there was nothing else to do, sleep and eat and sleep again, and sometimes talk a little... but not too much, and only in whispers, just to be safe. osha might have liked it better if they had never talked at all, but there was no way to quiet rickon, or to stop hodor from muttering, hodor, hodor, hodor, endlessly to himself. osha, bran said, i saw winterfell burning. off to his left, he could hear the soft sound of rickon' s breathing. a dream, said osha. a wolf dream, said bran. i smelled it too. nothing smells like fire, or blood. whose blood? men, horses, dogs, everyone. we have to go see. this scrawny skin of mine's the only one i got, said osha. that squid prince catches hold o' me, they'll strip it off my back with a whip. meera's hand found bran's in the darkness and gave his fingers a squeeze. i'll go if you're afraid. bran heard fingers fumbling at leather, followed by the sound of steel on flint. then again. a spark flew, caught. osha blew softly. a long pale flame awoke, stretching upward like a girl on her toes. osha's face floated above it. she touched the flame with the head of a torch. bran had to squint as the pitch began to burn, filling the world with orange glare. the light woke rickon, who sat up yawning. when the shadows moved, it looked for an instant as if the dead were rising as well. lyanna and brandon, lord rickard stark their father, lord edwyle his father, lord willam and his brother artos the implacable, lord donnor and lord beron and lord rodwell, one-eyed lord jonnel, lord barth and lord brandon and lord cregan who had fought the dragonknight. on their stone chairs they sat with stone wolves at their feet. this was where they came when the warmth had seeped out of their bodies; this was the dark hall of the dead, where the living feared to tread. and in the mouth of the empty tomb that waited for lord eddard stark, beneath his stately granite likeness, the six fugitives huddled round their little cache of bread and water and dried meat. little enough left, osha muttered as she blinked down on their stores. i'd need to go up soon to steal food in any case, or we'd be down to eating hodor.  hodor, hodor said, grinning at her. is it day or night up there? osha wondered. i've lost all count o' such. day, bran told her, but it's dark from all the smoke. mtord is certain? never moving his broken body, he reached out all the same, and for an instant he was seeing double. there stood osha holding the torch, and meera and jojen and hodor, and the double row of tall granite pillars and long dead lords behind them stretching away into darkness... but there was winterfell as well, grey with drifting smoke, the massive oakand-iron gates charred and askew, the drawbridge down in a tangle of broken chains and missing planks. bodies floated in the moat, islands for the crows. certain, he declared. osha chewed on that a moment. i'll risk a look then. i want the lot o' you close behind. meera, get bran's basket. are we going home? rickon asked excitedly. i want my horse. and i want applecakes and butter and honey, and shaggy. are we going where shaggydog is? yes, bran promised, but you have to be quiet. meera strapped the wicker basket to hodor's back and helped lift bran into it, easing his useless legs through the holes. he had a queer flutter in his belly. he knew what awaited them above, but that did not make it any less fearful. as they set off, he turned to give his father one last look, and it seemed to bran that there was a sadness in lord eddard's eyes, as if he did not want them to go. we have to, he thought. it's time. osha carried her long oaken spear in one hand and the torch in the other. a naked sword hung down her back, one of the last to bear mikken's mark. he had forged it for lord eddard's tomb, to keep his ghost at rest. but with mikken slain and the ironmen guarding the armory, good steel had been hard to resist, even if it meant grave-robbing. meera had claimed lord rickard's blade, though she complained that it was too heavy. brandon took his namesake's, the sword made for the uncle he had never known. he knew he would not be much use in a fight, but even so the blade felt good in his hand. but it was only a game, and bran knew it. their footsteps echoed through the cavernous crypts. the shadows behind them swallowed his father as the shadows ahead retreated to unveil other statues; no mere lords, these, but the old kings in the north. on their brows they wore stone crowns. torrhen stark, the king who knelt. edwyn the spring king. theon stark, the hungry wolf. brandon the burner and brandon the shipwright. jorah and jonos, brandon the bad, walton the moon king, edderion the bridegroom, eyron, benjen the sweet and benjen the bitter, king edrick snowbeard. their faces were stern and strong, and some of them had done terrible things, but they were starks every one, and bran knew all their tales. he had never feared the crypts; they were part of his home and who he was, and he had always known that one day he would lie here too. but now he was not so certain. if i go up, will i ever come back down? where will i go when i die? wait, osha said when they reached the twisting stone stairs that led up to the surface, and down to the deeper levels where kings more ancient still sat their dark thrones. she handed meera the torch. i'll grope my way up. for a time they could hear the sound of her footfalls, but they grew softer and softer until they faded away entirely. hodor, said hodor nervously. bran had told himself a hundred times how much he hated hiding down here in the dark, how much he wanted to see the sun again, to ride his horse through wind and rain. but now that the moment was upon him, he was afraid. he'd felt safe in the darkness; when you could not even find your own hand in front of your face, it was easy to believe that no enemies could ever find you either. and the stone lords had given him courage. even when he could not see them, he had known they were there. it seemed a long while before they heard anything again. bran had begun to fear that something had happened to osha. his brother was squirming restlessly. i want to go home! he said loudly. hodor bobbed his head and said, hodor. then they heard the footsteps again, growing louder, and after a few minutes osba emerged into the light, looking grim. something is blocking the door. i can't move it. hodor can move anything, said bran. osha gave the huge stableboy an appraising look. might be he can. come on, then. the steps were narrow, so they had to climb in single file. osha led. behind came hodor, with bran crouched low on his back so his head wouldn't hit the ceiling. meera followed with the torch, and jojen brought up the rear, leading rickon by the hand. around and around they went, and up and up. bran thought he could smell smoke now, but perhaps that was only the torch. the door to the crypts was made of ironwood. it was old and heavy, and lay at a slant to the ground. only one person could approach it at a time. osha tried once more when she reached it, but bran could see that it was not budging. let hodor try. they had to pull bran from his basket first, so he would not get squished. meera squatted beside him on the steps, one arm thrown protectively across his shoulders, as osha and hodor traded places. open the door, hodor, bran said. the huge stableboy put both hands flat on the door, pushed, and grunted. hodor? he slammed a fist against the wood, and it did not so much as jump. hodor. use your back, urged bran. and your legs. turning, hodor put his back to the wood and shoved. again. again. hodor! he put one foot on a higher step so he was bent under the slant of the door and tried to rise. this time the wood groaned and creaked. hodor! the other foot came up a step, and hodor spread his legs apart, braced, and straightened. his face turned red, and bran could see cords in his neck bulging as he strained against the weight above him. hodor hodor hodor hodor hodor hodor! from above came a dull rumble. then suddenly the door jerked upward and a shaft of daylight fell across bran's face, blinding him for a moment. another shove brought the sound of shifting stone, and then the way was open. osha poked her spear through and slid out after it, and rickon squirmed through meera's legs to follow. hodor shoved the door open all the way and stepped to the surface. the reeds had to carry bran up the last few steps. the sky was a pale grey, and smoke eddied all around them. they stood in the shadow of the first keep, or what remained of it. one whole side of the building had torn loose and fallen away. stone and shattered gargoyles lay strewn across the yard. they fell just where i did, bran thought when he saw them. some of the gargoyles had broken into so many pieces it made him wonder how he was alive at all. nearby some crows were pecking at a body crushed beneath the tumbled stone, but he lay facedown and bran could not say who he was. the first keep had not been used for many hundreds of years, but now it was more of a shell than ever. the floors had burned inside it, and all the beams. where the wall had fallen away, they could see right into the rooms, even into the privy. yet behind, the broken tower still stood, no more burned than before. jojen reed was coughing from the smoke. take me home! rickon demanded. i want to be home! hodor stomped in a circle. hodor, he whimpered in a small voice. they stood huddled together with ruin and death all around them. we made noise enough to wake a dragon, osha said, but there's no one come. the castle's dead and burned, just as bran dreamed, but we had best- she broke off suddenly at a noise behind them, and whirled with her spear at the ready. two lean dark shapes emerged from behind the broken tower, padding slowly through the rubble. rickon gave a happy shout of shaggy! and the black direwolf came bounding toward him. summer advanced more slowly, rubbed his head up against bran's arm, and licked his face. we should go, said jojen. so much death will bring other wolves besides summer and shaggydog, and not all on four feet. aye, soon enough, osha agreed, but we need food, and there may be some survived this, stay together. meera, keep your shield up and guard our backs. it took the rest of the morning to make a slow circuit of the castle. the great granite walls remained, blackened here and there by fire but otherwise untouched. but within, all was death and destruction. the doors of the great hall were charred and smoldering, and inside the rafters had given way and the whole roof had crashed down onto the floor. the green and yellow panes of the glass gardens were all in shards, the trees and fruits and flowers torn up or left exposed to die. of the stables, made of wood and thatch, nothing remained but ashes, embers, and dead horses. bran thought of his dancer, and wanted to weep. there was a shallow steaming lake beneath the library tower, and hot water gushing from a crack in its side. the bridge between the bell tower and the rookery had collapsed into the yard below, and maester luwin's turret was gone. they saw a dull red glow shining up through the narrow cellar windows beneath the great keep, and a second fire still burning in one of the storehouses. osha called softly through the blowing smoke as they went, but no one answered. they saw one dog worrying at a corpse, but he ran when he caught the scents of the direwolves; the rest had been slain in the kennels. the maester's ravens were paying court to some of the corpses, while the crows from the broken tower attended others. bran recognized poxy tym, even though someone had taken an axe to his face. one charred corpse, outside the ashen shell of mother's sept, sat with his arms drawn up and his hands balled into hard black fists, as if to punch anyone who dared approach him. if the gods are good, osha said in a low angry voice, the others will take them that did this work. it was theon, bran said blackly. no. look. she pointed across the yard with her spear. that's one of his ironmen. and there. and that's greyjoy's warhorse, see? the black one with the arrows in him. she moved among the dead, frowning. and here's black lorren. he had been hacked and cut so badly that his beard looked a reddish-brown now. took a few with him, he did. osha turned over one of the other corpses with her foot. there's a badge. a little man, all red. the flayed man of the dreadfort, said bran. summer howled, and darted away. the godswood. meera reed ran after the direwolf, her shield and frog spear to hand. the rest of them trailed after, threading their way through smoke and fallen stones. the air was sweeter under the trees. a few pines along the edge of the wood had been scorched, but deeper in the damp soil and green wood had defeated the flames. there is a power in living wood, said jojen reed, almost as if he knew what bran was thinking, a power strong as fire. on the edge of the black pool, beneath the shelter of the heart tree, maester luwin lay on his belly in the dirt. a trail of blood twisted back through damp leaves where he had crawled. summer stood over him, and bran thought he was dead at first, but when meera touched his throat, the maester moaned. hodor? hodor said mournfully. hodor? gently, they eased luwin onto his back. he had grey eyes and grey hair, and once his robes had been grey as well, but they were darker now where the blood had soaked through. bran, he said softly when he saw him sitting tall on hodor's back. and rickon too. he smiled. the gods are good. i knew... knew? said bran uncertainly. the legs, i could tell... the clothes fit, but the muscles in his legs... poor lad... he coughed, and blood came up from inside him. you vanished... in the woods... how, though?  we never went, said bran. well, only to the edge, and then doubled back. i sent the wolves on to make a trail, but we hid in father's tomb. the crypts. luwin chuckled, a froth of blood on his lips. when the maester tried to move, he gave a sharp gasp of pain. tears filled bran's eyes. when a man was hurt you took him to the maester, but what could you do when your maester was hurt? we'll need to make a litter to carry him, said osha. no use, said luwin. i'm dying, woman. you can't, said rickon angrily. no you can't. beside him, shaggydog bared his teeth and growled. the maester smiled. hush now, child, i'm much older than you. i can... die as i please. hodor, down, said bran. hodor went to his knees beside the maester. listen, luwin said to osha, the princes... robb's heirs. not... not together... do you hear? the wildling woman leaned on her spear. aye. safer apart. but where to take them? i'd thought, might be these cerwyns... maester luwin shook his head, though it was plain to see what the effort cost him. cerwyn boy's dead. ser rodrik, leobald tallhart, lady hornwood... all slain. deepwood fallen, moat cailin, soon torrhen's square. ironmen on the stony shore. and east, the bastard of bolton. then where? asked osha. white harbor... the umbers... i do not know... war everywhere... each man against his neighbor, and winter coming... such folly, such black mad folly... maester luwin reached up and grasped bran's forearm, his fingers closing with a desperate strength. you must be strong now. strong. i will be, bran said, though it was hard. ser rodrik killed and maester luwin, everyone, everyone... good, the maester said. a good boy. your... your father's son, bran. now go. osha gazed up at the weirwood, at the red face carved in the pale trunk. and leave you for the gods? i beg... the maester swallowed a... a drink of water, and... another boon. if you would... aye. she turned to meera. take the boys. jojen and meera led rickon out between them. hodor followed. low branches whipped at bran's face as they pushed between the trees, and the leaves brushed away his tears. osha joined them in the yard a few moments later. she said no word of maester luwin. hodor must stay with bran, to be his legs, the wildling woman said briskly. i will take rickon with me. we'll go with bran, said jojen reed. aye, i thought you might, said osha. believe i'll try the east gate, and follow the kingsroad a ways. we'll take the hunter's gate, said meera. hodor, said hodor. they stopped at the kitchens first. osha found some loaves of burned bread that were still edible, and even a cold roast fowl that she ripped in half. meera unearthed a crock of honey and a big sack of apples. outside, they made their farewells. rickon sobbed and clung to hodor's leg until osha gave him a smack with the butt end of her spear. then he followed her quick enough. shaggydog stalked after them. the last bran saw of them was the direwolf s tail as it vanished behind the broken tower. the iron portcullis that closed the hunter's gate had been warped so badly by heat it could not be raised more than a foot. they had to squeeze beneath its spikes, one by one. will we go to your lord father? bran asked as they crossed the drawbridge between the walls. to greywater watch? meera looked to her brother for the answer. our road is north, jojen announced. at the edge of the wolfswood, bran turned in his basket for one last glimpse of the castle that had been his life. wisps of smoke still rose into the grey sky, but no more than might have risen from winterfell's chimneys on a cold autumn afternoon. soot stains marked some of the arrow loops, and here and there a crack or a missing merlon could be seen in the curtain wall, but it seemed little enough from this distance. beyond, the tops of the keeps and towers still stood as they had for hundreds of years, and it was hard to tell that the castle had been sacked and burned at all. the stone is strong, bran told himself, the roots of the trees go deep, and under the ground the kings of winter sit their thrones. so long as those remained, winterfell remained. it was not dead, just broken. like me, he thought. i'm not dead either. the ridge slanted sharply from the earth, a long fold of stone and soil shaped like a claw. trees clung to its lower slopes, pines and hawthorn and ash, but higher up the ground was bare, the ridgeline stark against the cloudy sky. he could feel the high stone calling him. up he went, loping easy at first, then faster and higher, his strong legs eating up the incline. birds burst from the branches overhead as he raced by, clawing and flapping their way into the sky. he could hear the wind sighing up amongst the leaves, the squirrels chittering to one another, even the sound a pinecone made as it tumbled to the forest floor. the smells were a song around him, a song that filled the good green world. gravel flew from beneath his paws as he gained the last few feet to stand upon the crest. the sun hung above the tall pines huge and red, and below him the trees and hills went on and on as far as he could see or smell. a kite was circling far above, dark against the pink sky. prince. the man-sound came into his head suddenly, yet he could feel the tightness of it. prince of the green, prince of the wolfswood. he was strong and swift and fierce, and all that lived in the good green world went in fear of him. far below, at the base of the woods, something moved amongst the trees. a flash of grey, quick-glimpsed and gone again, but it was enough to make his ears prick up. down there beside a swift green brook, another form slipped by, running. wolves, he knew. his little cousins, chasing down some prey. now the prince could see more of them, shadows on fleet grey paws. a pack. he had a pack as well, once. five they had been, and a sixth who stood aside. somewhere down inside him were the sounds the men had given them to tell one from the other, but it was not by their sounds he knew them. he remembered their scents, his brothers and his sisters. they all had smelled alike, had smelled of pack, but each was different too. his angry brother with the hot green eyes was near, the prince felt, though he had not seen him for many hunts. yet with every sun that set he grew more distant, and he had been the last. the others were far scattered, like leaves blown by the wild wind. sometimes he could sense them, though, as if they were still with him, only hidden from his sight by a boulder or a stand of trees. he could not smell them, nor hear their howls by night, yet he felt their presence at his back... all but the sister they had lost. his tail drooped when he remembered her. four now, not five. four and one more, the white who has no voice. these woods belonged to them, the snowy slopes and stony hills, the great green pines and the golden leaf oaks, the rushing streams and blue lakes fringed with fingers of white frost. but his sister had left the wilds, to walk in the halls of man-rock where other hunters ruled, and once within those halls it was hard to find the path back out. the wolf prince remembered. the wind shifted suddenly. deer, and fear, and blood. the scent of prey woke the hunger in him. the prince sniffed the air again, turning, and then he was off, bounding along the ridgetop with jaws half-parted. the far side of the ridge was steeper than the one he'd come up, but he flew surefoot over stones and roots and rotting leaves, down the slope and through the trees, long strides eating up the ground. the scent pulled him onward, ever faster. the deer was down and dying when he reached her, ringed by eight of his small grey cousins. the heads of the pack had begun to feed, the male first and then his female, taking turns tearing flesh from the red underbelly of their prey. the others waited patiently, all but the tail, who paced in a wary circle a few strides from the rest, his own tail tucked low. he would eat the last of all, whatever his brothers left him. the prince was downwind, so they did not sense him until he leapt up upon a fallen log six strides from where they fed. the tail saw him first, gave a piteous whine, and slunk away. his pack brothers turned at the sound and bared their teeth, snarling, all but the head male and female. the direwo if answered the snarls with a low warning growl and showed them his own teeth. he was bigger than his cousins, twice the size of the scrawny tail, half again as large as the two pack heads. he leapt down into their midst, and three of them broke, melting away into the brush. another came at him, teeth snapping. he met the attack head on, caught the wolfs leg in his jaws when they met, and flung him aside yelping and limping. and then there was only the head wolf to face, the great grey male with his bloody muzzle fresh from the prey's soft belly. there was white on his muzzle as well, to mark him as an old wolf, but when his mouth opened, red slaver ran from his teeth. he has no fear, the prince thought, no more than me. it would be a good fight. they went for each other. long they fought, rolling together over roots and stones and fallen leaves and the scattered entrails of the prey, tearing at each other with tooth and claw, breaking apart, circling each round the other, and bolting in to fight again. the prince was larger, and much the stronger, but his cousin had a pack. the female prowled around them closely, snuffing and snarling, and would interpose herself whenever her mate broke off bloodied. from time to time the other wolves would dart in as well, to snap at a leg or an ear when the prince was turned the other way. one angered him so much that he whirled in a black fury and tore out the attacker's throat. after that the others kept their distance. and as the last red light was filtering through green boughs and golden, the old wolf lay down weary in the dirt, and rolled over to expose his throat and belly. it was submission. the prince sniffed at him and licked the blood from fur and torn flesh. when the old wolf gave a soft whimper, the direwo if turned away. he was very hungry now, and the prey was his. hodor. the sudden sound made him stop and snarl. the wolves regarded him with green and yellow eyes, bright with the last light of day. none of them had heard it. it was a queer wind that blew only in his ears. he buried his jaws in the deer's belly and tore off a mouthful of flesh. hodor, hodor. no, he thought. no, i won't. it was a boy's thought, not a direwolf s. the woods were darkening all about him, until only the shadows of the trees remained, and the glow of his cousins' eyes. and through those and behind those eyes, he saw a big man's grinning face, and a stone vault whose walls were spotted with niter. the rich warm taste of blood faded on his tongue. no, don't, don't, i want to eat, i want to, i want... hodor, hodor, hodor, hodor, hodor, hodor chanted as he shook him softly by the shoulders, back and forth and back and forth. he was trying to be gentle, he always tried, but hodor was seven feet tall and stronger than he knew, and his huge hands rattled bran's teeth together. no! he shouted angrily. hodor, leave off, i'm here, i'm here. hodor stopped, looking abashed. hodor? the woods and wolves were gone. bran was back again, down in the damp vault of some ancient watchtower that must have been abandoned thousands of years before. it wasn't much of a tower now. even the tumbled stones were so overgrown with moss and ivy that you could hardly see them until you were right on top of them. tumbledown tower , bran had named the place; it was meera who found the way down into the vault, however. you were gone too long. jojen reed was thirteen, only four years older than bran. jojen wasn't much bigger either, no more than two inches or maybe three, but he had a solemn way of talking that made him seem older and wiser than he really was. at winterfell, old nan had dubbed him little grandfather. bran frowned at him. i wanted to eat. meera will be back soon with supper. i'm sick of frogs. meera was a frogeater from the neck, so bran couldn't really blame her for catching so many frogs, he supposed, but even so... i wanted to eat the deer. for a moment he remembered the taste of it, the blood and the raw rich meat, and his mouth watered. i won the fight for it. i won. did you mark the trees? bran flushed. jojen was always telling him to do things when he opened his third eye and put on summer's skin. to claw the bark of a tree, to catch a rabbit and bring it back in his jaws uneaten, to push some rocks in a line. stupid things. i forgot, he said. you always forget. it was true. he meant to do the things that jojen asked, but once he was a wolf they never seemed important. there were always things to see and things to smell, a whole green world to hunt. and he could run! there was nothing better than running, unless it was running after prey. i was a prince, jojen, he told the older boy. i was the prince of the woods. you are a prince, jojen reminded him softly. you remember, don't you? tell me who you are. you know jojen was his friend and his teacher, but sometimes bran just wanted to hit him. i want you to say the words. tell me who you are. bran, he said sullenly. bran the broken. brandon stark. the cripple boy. the prince of winterfell. of winterfell burned and tumbled, its people scattered and slain. the glass gardens were smashed, and hot water gushed from the cracked walls to steam beneath the sun. how can you be the prince of someplace you might never see again? and who is summer? jojen prompted. my direwolf. he smiled. prince of the green. bran the boy and summer the wolf. you are two, then? two, he sighed, and one. he hated jojen when he got stupid like this. at winterfell he wanted me to dream my wolf dreams, and now that i know how he's always calling me back. remember that, bran. remember yourself, or the wolf will consume you. when you join, it is not enough to run and hunt and howl in summer's skin. it is for me, bran thought. he liked summer's skin better than his own. what good is it to be a skinc hanger if you can't wear the skin you like? will you remember? and next time, mark the tree. any tree, it doesn't matter, so long as you do it. i will. i'll remember. i could go back and do it now, if you like. i won't forget this time. but i'll eat my deer first, and fight with those little wolves some more. jojen shook his head. no. best stay, and eat. with your own mouth. a warg cannot live on what his beast consumes. how would you know? bran thought resentfully. you've never been a warg, you don't know what it's like. hodor jerked suddenly to his feet, almost hitting his head on the barrelvaulted ceiling. hodor! he shouted, rushing to the door. meera pushed it open just before he reached it, and stepped through into their refuge. hodor, hodor, the huge stableboy said, grinning. meera reed was sixteen, a woman grown, but she stood no higher than her brother. all the crannogmen were small, she told bran once when he asked why she wasn't taller. brown-haired, green-eyed, and flat as a boy, she walked with a supple grace that bran could only watch and envy. meera wore a long sharp dagger, but her favorite way to fight was with a slender three- pronged frog spear in one hand and a woven net in the other. who's hungry? she asked, holding up her catch: two small silvery trout and six fat green frogs. i am, said bran. but not for frogs. back at winterfell before all the bad things had happened, the walders used to say that eating frogs would turn your teeth green and make moss grow under your arms. he wondered if the walders were dead. he hadn't seen their corpses at winterfell... but there had been a lot of corpses, and they hadn't looked inside the buildings. we'll just have to feed you, then. will you help me clean the catch, bran? he nodded. it was hard to sulk with meera. she was much more cheerful than her brother, and always seemed to know how to make him smile. nothing ever scared her or made her angry. well, except jojen, sometimes... jojen reed could scare most anyone. he dressed all in green, his eyes were murky as moss, and he had green dreams. what jojen dreamed came true. except he dreamed me dead, and i'm not. only he was, in a way. jojen sent hodor out for wood and built them a small fire while bran and meera were cleaning the fish and frogs. they used meera' s helm for a cooking pot, chopping up the catch into little cubes and tossing in some water and some wild onions hodor had found to make a froggy stew. it wasn't as good as deer, but it wasn't bad either, bran decided as he ate. thank you, meera, he said. my lady. you are most welcome, your grace. come the morrow, jojen announced, we had best move on. bran could see meera tense. have you had a green dream? no, he admitted. why leave, then? his sister demanded. tumbledown tower's a good place for us. no villages near, the woods are full of game, there's fish and frogs in the streams and lakes... and who is ever going to find us here? this is not the place we are meant to be. it is safe, though. it seems safe, i know, said jojen, but for how long? there was a battle at winterfell, we saw the dead. battles mean wars. if some army should take us unawares... it might be robb's army, said bran. robb will come back from the south soon, i know he will. he'll come back with all his banners and chase the ironmen away. your maester said naught of robb when he lay dying, jojen reminded him. ironmen on the stony shore, he said, and, east, the bastard of bolton. moat cailin and deepwood motte fallen, the heir to cerwyn dead, and the castellan of torrhen's square. war everywhere, he said, each man against his neighbor. we have plowed this field before, his sister said. you want to make for the wall, and your three-eyed crow. that's well and good, but the wall is a very long way and bran has no legs but hodor. if we were mounted... if we were eagles we might fly, said jojen sharply, but we have no wings, no more than we have horses. there are horses to be had, said meera. even in the deep of the wolfswood there are foresters, crofters, hunters. some will have horses. and if they do, should we steal them? are we thieves? the last thing we need is men hunting us. we could buy them, she said. trade for them. look at us, meera. a crippled boy with a direwolf, a simpleminded giant, and two crannogmen a thousand leagues from the neck. we will be known. and word will spread. so long as bran remains dead, he is safe. alive, he becomes prey for those who want him dead for good and true. jojen went to the fire to prod the embers with a stick. somewhere to the north, the three- eyed crow awaits us. bran has need of a teacher wiser than me. how, jojen? his sister asked. how? a foot, he answered. a step at a time. the road from greywater to winterfell went on forever, and we were mounted then. you want us to travel a longer road on foot, without even knowing where it ends. beyond the wall, you say. i haven't been there, no more than you, but i know that beyond the wall's a big place, jojen. are there many three-eyed crows, or only one? how do we find him? perhaps he will find us. before meera could find a reply to that, they heard the sound; the distant howl of a wolf, drifting through the night. summer? asked jojen, listening. no. bran knew the voice of his direwolf are you certain? said the little grandfather. certain. summer had wandered far afield today, and would not be back till dawn. maybe jojen dreams green, but he can't tell a wolf from a direwolf. he wondered why they all listened to jojen so much. he was not a prince like bran, nor big and strong like hodor, nor as good a hunter as meera, yet somehow it was always jojen telling them what to do. we should steal horses like meera wants, bran said, and ride to the umbers up at last hearth. he thought a moment. or we could steal a boat and sail down the white knife to white harbor town. that fat lord manderly rules there, he was friendly at the harvest feast. he wanted to build ships. maybe he built some, and we could sail to riverrun and bring robb home with all his army. then it wouldn't matter who knew i was alive. robb wouldn't let anyone hurt us. hodor! burped hodor. hodor, hodor. he was the only one who liked bran's plan, though. meera just smiled at him and jojen frowned. they never listened to what he wanted, even though bran was a stark and a prince besides, and the reeds of the neck were stark bannermen. hoooodor, said hodor, swaying. hooooooodor, hoooooodor, hodor, hodor, hodor. sometimes he liked to do this, just saying his name different ways, over and over and over. other times, he would stay so quiet you forgot he was there. there was never any knowing with hodor. hodor, hodor, hodor! he shouted. he is not going to stop, bran realized. hodor, he said, why don't you go outside and train with your sword? the stableboy had forgotten about his sword, but now he remembered. hodor! he burped. he went for his blade. they had three tomb swords taken from the crypts of winterfell where bran and his brother rickon had hidden from theon greyjoy's ironmen. bran claimed his uncle brandon's sword, meera the one she found upon the knees of his grandfather lord rickard. hodor's blade was much older, a huge heavy piece of iron, dull from centuries of neglect and well spotted with rust. he could swing it for hours at a time. there was a rotted tree near the tumbled stones that he had hacked half to pieces. even when he went outside they could hear him through the walls, bellowing hodor! as he cut and slashed at his tree. thankfully the wolfswood was huge, and there was not like to be anyone else around to hear. jojen, what did you mean about a teacher? bran asked. you're my teacher. i know i never marked the tree, but i will the next time. my third eye is open like you wanted... so wide open that i fear you may fall through it, and live all the rest of your days as a wolf of the woods. i won't, i promise. the boy promises. will the wolf remember? you run with summer, you hunt with him, kill with him... but you bend to his will more than him to yours. i just forget, bran complained. i'm only nine. i'll be better when i'm older. even florian the fool and prince aemon the dragonknight weren't great knights when they were nine. that is true, said jojen, and a wise thing to say, if the days were still growing longer... but they aren't. you are a summer child, i know. tell me the words of house stark. winter is coming. just saying it made bran feel cold. jojen gave a solemn nod. i dreamed of a winged wolfhound to earth by chains of stone, and came to winterfell to free him. the chains are off you now, yet still you do not fly. then you teach me. bran still feared the three-eyed crow who haunted his dreams sometimes, pecking endlessly at the skin between his eyes and telling him to fly. you're a greenseer. no, said jojen, only a boy who dreams. the greenseers were more than that. they were wargs as well, as you are, and the greatest of them could wear the skins of any beast that flies or swims or crawls, and could look through the eyes of the weirwoods as well, and see the truth that lies beneath the world. the gods give many gifts, bran. my sister is a hunter. it is given to her to run swiftly, and stand so still she seems to vanish. she has sharp ears, keen eyes, a steady hand with net and spear. she can breathe mud and fly through trees. i could not do these things, no more than you could. to me the gods gave the green dreams, and to you... you could be more than me, bran. you are the winged wolf, and there is no saying how far and high you might fly... if you had someone to teach you. how can i help you master a gift i do not understand? we remember the first men in the neck, and the children of the forest who were their friends... but so much is forgotten, and so much we never knew. meera took bran by the hand. if we stay here, troubling no one, you'll be safe until the war ends. you will not learn, though, except what my brother can teach you, and you've heard what he says. if we leave this place to seek refuge at last hearth or beyond the wall, we risk being taken. you are only a boy, i know, but you are our prince as well, our lord's son and our king's true heir. we have sworn you our faith by earth and water, bronze and iron, ice and fire. the risk is yours, bran, as is the gift. the choice should be yours too, i think. we are your servants to command. she grinned. at least in this. you mean, bran said, you'll do what i say? truly? truly, my prince, the girl replied, so consider well. bran tried to think it through, the way his father might have. the greatjon's uncles hother whoresbane and mors crowfood were fierce men, but he thought they would be loyal. and the karstarks, them too. karhold was a strong castle, father always said. we would be safe with the umbers or the karstarks. or they could go south to fat lord manderly. at winterfell, he'd laughed a lot, and never seemed to look at bran with so much pity as the other lords. castle cerwyn was closer than white harbor, but maester luwin had said that cley cerwyn was dead. the umbers and the karstarks and the manderlys may all be dead as well, he realized. as he would be, if he was caught by the ironmen or the bastard of bolton. if they stayed here, hidden down beneath tumbledown tower, no one would find them. he would stay alive. and crippled. bran realized he was crying. stupid baby, he thought at himself. no matter where he went, to karhold or white harbor or greywater watch, he'd be a cripple when he got there. he balled his hands into fists. i want to fly, he told them. please. take me to the crow. no roads ran through the twisted mountain valleys where they walked now. between the grey stone peaks lay still blue lakes, long and deep and narrow, and the green gloom of endless piney woods. the russet and gold of autumn leaves grew less common when they left the wolfswood to climb amongst the old flint hills, and vanished by the time those hills had turned to mountains. giant grey-green sentinels loomed above them now, and spruce and fir and soldier pines in endless profusion. the undergrowth was sparse beneath them, the forest floor carpeted in dark green needles. when they lost their way, as happened once or twice, they need only wait for a clear cold night when the clouds did not intrude, and look up in the sky for the ice dragon. the blue star in the dragon's eye pointed the way north, as osha told him once. thinking of osha made bran wonder where she was. he pictured her safe in white harbor with rickon and shaggydog, eating eels and fish and hot crab pie with fat lord manderly. or maybe they were warming themselves at the last hearth before the greatjon's fires. but bran's life had turned into endless chilly days on hodor's back, riding his basket up and down the slopes of mountains. up and down, meera would sigh sometimes as they walked, then down and up. then up and down again. i hate these stupid mountains of yours, prince bran. yesterday you said you loved them. oh, i do. my lord father told me about mountains, but i never saw one till now. i love them more than i can say. bran made a face at her. but you just said you hated them. why can't it be both? meera reached up to pinch his nose. because they're different, he insisted. like night and day, or ice and fire. if ice can burn, said jojen in his solemn voice, then love and hate can mate. mountain or marsh, it makes no matter. the land is one. one, his sister agreed, but over wrinkled. the high glens seldom did them the courtesy of running north and south, so often they found themselves going long leagues in the wrong direction, and sometimes they were forced to double back the way they'd come. if we took the kingsroad we could be at the wall by now, bran would remind the reeds. he wanted to find the three-eyed crow, so he could learn to fly. haifa hundred times he said it if he said it once, until meera started teasing by saying it along with him. if we took the kingsroad we wouldn't be so hungry either, he started saying then. down in the hills they'd had no lack of food. meera was a fine huntress, and even better at taking fish from streams with her three-pronged frog spear. bran liked to watch her, admiring her quickness, the way she sent the spear lancing down and pulled it back with a silvery trout wriggling on the end of it. and they had summer hunting for them as well. the direwo if vanished most every night as the sun went down, but he was always back again before dawn, most often with something in his jaws, a squirrel or a hare. but here in the mountains, the streams were smaller and more icy, and the game scarcer. meera still hunted and fished when she could, but it was harder, and some nights even summer found no prey. often they went to sleep with empty bellies. but jojen remained stubbornly determined to stay well away from roads. where you find roads you find travelers, he said in that way he had, and travelers have eyes to see, and mouths to spread tales of the crippled boy, his giant, and the wolf that walks beside them. no one could get as stubborn as jojen, so they struggled on through the wild, and every day climbed a little higher, and moved a little farther north. some days it rained, some days were windy, and once they were caught in a sleet storm so fierce that even hodor bellowed in dismay. on the clear days, it often seemed as if they were the only living things in all the world. does no one live up here? meera reed asked once, as they made their way around a granite upthrust as large as winterfell. there's people, bran told her. the umbers are mostly east of the kingsroad, but they graze their sheep in the high meadows in summer. there are wulls west of the mountains along the bay of ice, hare lays back behind us in the hills, and knotts and liddles and norreys and even some flints up here in the high places. his father's mother's mother had been a flint of the mountains. old nan once said that it was her blood in him that made bran such a fool for climbing before his fall. she had died years and years and years before he was born, though, even before his father had been born. wull? said meera. jojen, wasn't there a wull who rode with father during the war? theo wull. jojen was breathing hard from the climb. buckets, they used to call him. that's their sigil, said bran. three brown buckets on a blue field, with a border of white and grey checks. lord wull came to winterfell once, to do his fealty and talk with father, and he had the buckets on his shield. he's no true lord, though. well, he is, but they call him just the wull, and there's the knott and the norrey and the liddle too. at winterfell we called them lords, but their own folk don't. jojen reed stopped to catch his breath. do you think these mountain folk know we're here? they know. bran had seen them watching; not with his own eyes, but with summer's sharper ones, that missed so little. they won't bother us so long as we don't try and make off with their goats or horses. nor did they. only once did they encounter any of the mountain people, when a sudden burst of freezing rain sent them looking for shelter. summer found it for them, sniffing out a shallow cave behind the greygreen branches of a towering sentinel tree, but when hodor ducked beneath the stony overhang, bran saw the orange glow of fire farther back and realized they were not alone. come in and warm yourselves, a man's voice called out. there's stone enough to keep the rain off all our heads. he offered them oatcakes and blood sausage and a swallow of ale from a skin he carried, but never his name; nor did he ask theirs. bran figured him for a liddle. the clasp that fastened his squirrelskin cloak was gold and bronze and wrought in the shape of a pinecone, and the liddles bore pinecones on the white half of their green-and-white shields. is it far to the wall? bran asked him as they waited for the rain to stop. not so far as the raven flies, said the liddle, if that was who he was. farther, for them as lacks wings. bran started, i'd bet we'd be there if... ... we took the kingsroad, meera. finished with him. the liddle took out a knife and whittled at a stick. when there was a stark in winterfell, a maiden girl could walk the kingsroad in her name-day gown and still go unmolested, and travelers could find fire, bread, and salt at many an inn and holdfast. but the nights are colder now, and doors are closed. there's squids in the wolfswood, and flayed men ride the kingsroad asking after strangers. the reeds exchanged a look. flayed men? said jojen. the bastard's boys, aye. he was dead, but now he's not. and paying good silver for wolfskins, a man hears, and maybe gold for word of certain other walking dead. he looked at bran when he said that, and at summer stretched out beside him. as to that wall, the man went on, it's not a place that i'd be going. the old bear took the watch into the haunted woods, and all that come back was his ravens, with hardly a message between them. dark wings, dark words, me mother used to say, but when the birds fly silent, seems to me that's even darker. he poked at the fire with his stick. it was different when there was a stark in winterfell. but the old wolfs dead and young one's gone south to play the game of thrones, and all that's left us is the ghosts. the wolves will come again, said jojen solemnly. and how would you be knowing, boy? i dreamed it. some nights i dream of me mother that i buried nine years past, the man said, but when i wake, she's not come back to us. there are dreams and dreams, my lord. hodor, said hodor. they spent that night together, for the rain did not let up till well past dark, and only summer seemed to want to leave the cave. when the fire had burned down to embers, bran let him go. the direwolf did not feel the damp as people did, and the night was calling him. moonlight painted the wet woods in shades of silver and turned the grey peaks white. owls hooted through the dark and flew silently between the pines, while pale goats moved along the mountainsides. bran closed his eyes and gave himself up to the wolf dream, to the smells and sounds of midnight. when they woke the next morning, the fire had gone out and the liddle was gone, but he'd left a sausage for them, and a dozen oatcakes folded up neatly in a green and white cloth. some of the cakes had pinenuts baked in them and some had blackberries. bran ate one of each, and still did not know which sort he liked the best. one day there would be starks in winterfell again, he told himself, and then he'd send for the liddles and pay them back a hundredfold for every nut and berry. the trail they followed was a little easier that day, and by noon the sun came breaking through the clouds. bran sat in his basket up on hodor's back and felt almost content. he dozed off once, lulled to sleep by the smooth swing of the big stableboy's stride and the soft humming sound he made sometimes when he walked. meera woke him up with a light touch on his arm. look, she said, pointing at the sky with her frog spear, an eagle. bran lifted his head and saw it, its grey wings spread and still as it floated on the wind. he followed it with his eyes as it circled higher, wondering what it would be like to soar about the world so effortless. better than climbing, even. he tried to reach the eagle, to leave his stupid crippled body and rise into the sky to join it, the way he joined with summer. the greenseers could do it. i should be able to do it too. he tried and tried, until the eagle vanished in the golden haze of the afternoon. it's gone, he said, disappointed. we'll see others, said meera. they live up here. i suppose. hodor, said hodor. hodor, bran agreed. jojen kicked a pinecone. hodor likes it when you say his name, i think. hodor's not his true name, bran explained. it's just some word he says. his real name is walder, old nan told me. she was his grandmother's grandmother or something. talking about old nan made him sad. do you think the ironmen killed her? they hadn't seen her body at winterfell. he didn't remember seeing any women dead, now that he thought back. she never hurt no one, not even theon. she just told stories. theon wouldn't hurt someone like that. would he? some people hurt others just because they can, said jojen. and it wasn't theon who did the killing at winterfell, said meera. too many of the dead were ironmen. she shifted her frog spear to her other hand. remember old nan's stories, bran. remember the way she told them, the sound of her voice. so long as you do that, part of her will always be alive in you. i'll remember, he promised. they climbed without speaking for a long time, following a crooked game trail over the high saddle between two stony peaks. scrawny soldier pines clung to the slopes around them. far ahead bran could see the icy glitter of a stream where it tumbled down a mountainside. he found himself listening to jojen's breathing and the crunch of pine needles under hodor's feet. do you know any stories? he asked the reeds all of a sudden. meera laughed. oh, a few. a few, her brother admitted. hodor, said hodor, humming. you could tell one, said bran. while we walked. hodor likes stories about knights. i do, too. there are no knights in the neck, said jojen. above the water, his sister corrected. the bogs are full of dead ones, though. that's true, said jojen. andals and ironmen, freys and other fools, all those proud warriors who set out to conquer greywater. not one of them could find it. they ride into the neck, but not back out. and sooner or later they blunder into the bogs and sink beneath the weight of all that steel and drown there in their armor. the thought of drowned knights under the water gave bran the shivers. he didn't object, though; he liked the shivers. there was one knight, said meera, in the year of the false spring. the knight of the laughing tree, they called him. he might have been a crannogman, that one. or not. jojen's face was dappled with green shadows. prince bran has heard that tale a hundred times, i'm sure. no, said bran. i haven't. and if i have it doesn't matter. sometimes old nan would tell the same story she'd told before, but we never minded, if it was a good story. old stories are like old friends, she used to say. you have to visit them from time to time. that's true. meera walked with her shield on her back, pushing an occasional branch out of the way with her frog spear, just when bran began to think that she wasn't going to tell the story after all, she began, once there was a curious lad who lived in the neck. he was small like all crannogmen, but brave and smart and strong as well. he grew up hunting and fishing and climbing trees, and learned all the magics of my people. bran was almost certain he had never heard this story. did he have green dreams like jojen? no, said meera, but he could breathe mud and run on leaves, and change earth to water and water to earth with no more than a whispered word. he could talk to trees and weave words and make castles appear and disappear. i wish i could, bran said plaintively. when does he meet the tree knight? meera made a face at him. sooner if a certain prince would be quiet. i was just asking. the lad knew the magics of the crannogs, she continued, but he wanted more. our people seldom travel far from home, you know. we're a small folk, and our ways seem queer to some, so the big people do not always treat us kindly. but this lad was bolder than most, and one day when he had grown to manhood he decided he would leave the crannogs and visit the isle of faces. no one visits the isle of faces, objected bran. that's where the green men live. it was the green men he meant to find. so he donned a shirt sewn with bronze scales, like mine, took up a leathern shield and a threepronged spear, like mine, and paddled a little skin boat down the green fork. bran closed his eyes to try and see the man in his little skin boat. in his head, the crannogman looked like jojen, only older and stronger and dressed like meera. he passed beneath the twins by night so the freys would not attack him, and when he reached the trident he climbed from the river and put his boat on his head and began to walk. it took him many a day, but finally he reached the gods eye, threw his boat in the lake, and paddled out to the isle of faces. did he meet the green men? yes, said meera, but that's another story, and not for me to tell. my prince asked for knights. green men are good too. they are, she agreed, but said no more about them. all that winter the crannogman stayed on the isle, but when the spring broke he heard the wide world calling and knew the time had come to leave. his skin boat was just where he'd left it, so he said his farewells and paddled off toward shore. he rowed and rowed, and finally saw the distant towers of a castle rising beside the lake. the towers reached ever higher as he neared shore, until he realized that this must be the greatest castle in all the world. harrenhal! bran knew at once. it was harrenhal! meera smiled. was it? beneath its walls he saw tents of many colors, bright banners cracking in the wind, and knights in mail and plate on barded horses. he smelled roasting meats, and heard the sound of laughter and the blare of heralds' trumpets. a great tourney was about to commence, and champions from all over the land had come to contest it. the king himself was there, with his son the dragon prince. the white swords had come, to welcome a new brother to their ranks. the storm lord was on hand, and the rose lord as well. the great lion of the rock had quarreled with the king and stayed away, but many of his bannermen and knights attended all the same. the crannogman had never seen such pageantry, and knew he might never see the like again. part of him wanted nothing so much as to be part of it. bran knew that feeling well enough. when he'd been little, all he had ever dreamed of was being a knight. but that had been before he fell and lost his legs. the daughter of the great castle reigned as queen of love and beauty when the tourney opened. five champions had sworn to defend her crown; her four brothers of harrenhal, and her famous uncle, a white knight of the kingsguard. was she a fair maid? she was, said meera, hopping over a stone, but there were others fairer still. one was the wife of the dragon prince, who'd brought a dozen lady companions to attend her. the knights all begged them for favors to tie about their lances. this isn't going to be one of those love stories, is it? bran asked suspiciously. hodor doesn't like those so much. hodor, said hodor agreeably. he likes the stories where the knights fight monsters. sometimes the knights are the monsters, bran. the little crannogman was walking across the field, enjoying the warm spring day and harming none, when he was set upon by three squires. they were none older than fifteen, yet even so they were bigger than him, all three. this was their world, as they saw it, and he had no right to be there. they snatched away his spear and knocked him to the ground, cursing him for a frogeater. were they walders? it sounded like something little walder frey might have done. none offered a name, but he marked their faces well so he could revenge himself upon them later. they shoved him down every time he tried to rise, and kicked him when he curled up on the ground. but then they heard a roar. 'that's my father's man you're kicking, howled the she- wolf a wolf on four legs, or two? two, said meera. the she-wolf laid into the squires with a tourney sword, scattering them all. the crannogman was bruised and bloodied, so she took him back to her lair to clean his cuts and bind them up with linen. there he met her pack brothers: the wild wolf who led them, the quiet wolf beside him, and the pup who was youngest of the four. that evening there was to be a feast in harrenhal, to mark the opening of the tourney, and the she -wolf insisted that the lad attend. he was of high birth, with as much a right to a place on the bench as any other man. she was not easy to refuse, this wolf maid, so he let the young pup find him garb suitable to a king's feast, and went up to the great castle. under harren's roof he ate and drank with the wolves, and many of their sworn swords besides, barrowdown men and moose and bears and mermen. the dragon prince sang a song so sad it made the wolf maid sniffle, but when her pup brother teased her for crying she poured wine over his head. a black brother spoke, asking the knights to join the night's watch. the storm lord drank down the knight of skulls and kisses in a wine-cup war. the crannogman saw a maid with laughing purple eyes dance with a white sword, a red snake, and the lord of griffins, and lastly with the quiet wolf... but only after the wild wolf spoke to her on behalf of a brother too shy to leave his bench. amidst all this merriment, the little crannogman spied the three squires who'd attacked him. one served a pitchfork knight, one a porcupine, while the last attended a knight with two towers on his surcoat, a sigil all crannogmen know well. the freys, said bran. the freys of the crossing. then, as now, she agreed. the wolf maid saw them too, and pointed them out to her brothers. t could find you a horse, and some armor that might fit', the pup offered. the little crannogman thanked him, but gave no answer. his heart was torn. crannogmen are smaller than most, but just as proud. the lad was no knight, no more than any of his people. we sit a boat more often than a horse, and our hands are made for oars, not lances. much as he wished to have his vengeance, he feared he would only make a fool of himself and shame his people. the quiet wolf had offered the little crannogman a place in his tent that night, but before he slept he knelt on the lakeshore, looking across the water to where the isle of faces would be, and said a prayer to the old gods of north and neck... you never heard this tale from your father? asked jojen. it was old nan who told the stories. meera, go on, you can't stop there. hodor must have felt the same. hodor, he said, and then, hodor hodor hodor hodor. well, said meera, if you would hear the rest... yes. tell it. five days of jousting were planned, she said. there was a great seven-sided melee as well, and archery and axethrowing, a horse race and tourney of singers. .. never mind about all that. bran squirmed impatiently in his basket on hodor's back. tell about the jousting. as my prince commands. the daughter of the castle was the queen of love and beauty, with four brothers and an uncle to defend her, but all four sons of harrenhal were defeated on the first day. their conquerors reigned briefly as champions, until they were vanquished in turn. as it happened, the end of the first day saw the porcupine knight win a place among the champions, and on the morning of the second day the pitchfork knight and the knight of the two towers were victorious as well. but late on the afternoon of that second day, as the shadows grew long, a mystery knight appeared in the lists. bran nodded sagely. mystery knights would oft appear at tourneys, with helms concealing their faces, and shields that were either blank or bore some strange device. sometimes they were famous champions in disguise. the dragonknight once won a tourney as the knight of tears, so he could name his sister the queen of love and beauty in place of the king's mistress. and barristan the bold twice donned a mystery knight's armor, the first time when he was only ten. it was the little crannogman, i bet. no one knew, said meera, but the mystery knight was short of stature, and clad in ill-fitting armor made up of bits and pieces. the device upon his shield was a heart tree of the old gods, a white weirwood with a laughing red face. maybe he came from the isle of faces, said bran. was he green? in old nan's stories, the guardians had dark green skin and leaves instead of hair. sometimes they had antlers too, but bran didn't see how the mystery knight could have worn a helm if he had antlers. i bet the old gods sent him. perhaps they did. the mystery knight dipped his lance before the king and rode to the end of the lists, where the five champions had their pavilions. you know the three he challenged. the porcupine knight, the pitchfork knight, and the knight of the twin towers. bran had heard enough stories to know that. he was the little crannogman, i told you. whoever he was, the old gods gave strength to his arm. the porcupine knight fell first, then the pitchfork knight, and lastly the knight of the two towers. none were well loved, so the common folk cheered lustily for the knight of the laughing tree, as the new champion soon was called. when his fallen foes sought to ransom horse and armor, the knight of the laughing tree spoke in a booming voice through his helm, saying, 'teach your squire honor, that shall be ransom enough.' once the defeated knights chastised their squires sharply, their horses and armor were returned. and so the little crannogman's prayer was answered... by the green men, or the old gods, or the children of the forest, who can say? it was a good story, bran decided after thinking about it a moment or two. then what happened? did the knight of the laughing tree win the tourney and marry a princess? no, said meera. that night at the great castle, the storm lord and the knight of skulls and kisses each swore they would unmask him, and the king himself urged men to challenge him, declaring that the face behind that helm was no friend of his. but the next morning, when the heralds blew their trumpets and the king took his seat, only two champions appeared. the knight of the laughing tree had vanished. the king was wroth, and even sent his son the dragon prince to seek the man, but all they ever found was his painted shield, hanging abandoned in a tree, it was the dragon prince who won that tourney in the end. oh. bran thought about the tale awhile. that was a good story. but it should have been the three bad knights who hurt him, not their squires. then the little crannogman could have killed them all. the part about the ransoms was stupid. and the mystery knight should win the tourney, defeating every challenger, and name the wolf maid the queen of love and beauty. she was, said meera, but that's a sadder story. are you certain you never heard this tale before, bran? asked jojen. your lord father never told it to you? bran shook his head. the day was growing old by then, and long shadows were creeping down the mountainsides to send black fingers through the pines. if the little crannogman could visit the isle of faces, maybe i could too. all the tales agreed that the green men had strange magic powers. maybe they could help him walk again, even turn him into a knight. they turned the little crannogman into a knight, even if it was only for a day, he thought. a day would be enough. the tower stood upon an island, its twin reflected on the still blue waters. when the wind blew, ripples moved across the surface of the lake, chasing one another like boys at play. oak trees grew thick along the lakeshore, a dense stand of them with a litter of fallen acorns on the ground beneath. beyond them was the village, or what remained of it. it was the first village they had seen since leaving the foothills. meera had scouted ahead to make certain there was no one lurking amongst the ruins. sliding in and amongst oaks and apple trees with her net and spear in hand, she startled three red deer and sent them bounding away through the brush. summer saw the flash of motion and was after them at once. bran watched the direwolf lope off, and for a moment wanted nothing so much as to slip his skin and run with him, but meera was waving for them to come ahead. reluctantly, he turned away from summer and urged hodor on, into the village. jojen walked with them. the ground from here to the wall was grasslands, bran knew; fallow fields and low rolling hills, high meadows and lowland bogs. it would be much easier going than the mountains behind, but so much open space made meera uneasy. i feel naked, she confessed. there's no place to hide. who holds this land? jojen asked bran. the night's watch, he answered. this is the gift. the new gift, and north of that brandon's gift. maester luwin had taught him the history. brandon the builder gave all the land south of the wall to the black brothers, to a distance of twenty- five leagues. for their... for their sustenance and support. he was proud that he still remembered that part. some maesters say it was some other brandon, not the builder, but it's still brandon's gift. thousands of years later, good queen alysanne visited the wall on her dragon silverwing, and she thought the night's watch was so brave that she had the old king double the size of their lands, to fifty leagues. so that was the new gift. he waved a hand. here. all this. no one had lived in the village for long years, bran could see. all the houses were falling down. even the inn. it had never been much of an inn, to look at it, but now all that remained was a stone chimney and two cracked walls, set amongst a dozen apple trees. one was growing up through the common room, where a layer of wet brown leaves and rotting apples carpeted the floor. the air was thick with the smell of them, a cloying cidery scent that was almost overwhelming. meera stabbed a few apples with her frog spear, trying to find some still good enough to eat, but they were all too brown and wormy. it was a peaceful spot, still and tranquil and lovely to behold, but bran thought there was something sad about an empty inn, and hodor seemed to feel it too. hodor? he said in a confused sort of way. hodor? hodor? this is good land. jojen picked up a handful of dirt, rubbing it between his fingers. a village, an inn, a stout holdfast in the lake, all these apple trees... but where are the people, bran? why would they leave such a place? they were afraid of the wildlings, said bran. wildlings come over the wall or through the mountains, to raid and steal and carry off women. if they catch you, they make your skull into a cup to drink blood, old nan used to say. the night's watch isn't so strong as it was in brandon's day or queen alysanne's, so more get through. the places nearest the wall got raided so much the smallfolk moved south, into the mountains or onto the umber lands east of the kingsroad. the greatjon's people get raided too, but not so much as the people who used to live in the gift. jojen reed turned his head slowly, listening to music only he could hear. we need to shelter here. there's a storm coming. a bad one. bran looked up at the sky. it had been a beautiful crisp clear autumn day, sunny and almost warm, but there were dark clouds off to the west now, that was true, and the wind seemed to be picking up. there's no roof on the inn and only the two walls, he pointed out. we should go out to the holdfast. hodor, said hodor. maybe he agreed. we have no boat, bran. meera poked through the leaves idly with her frog spear. there's a causeway. a stone causeway, hidden under the water. we could walk out. they could, anyway; he would have to ride on hodor's back, but at least he'd stay dry that way. the reeds exchanged a look. how do you know that? asked jojen. have you been here before, my prince? no. old nan told me. the holdfast has a golden crown, see? he pointed across the lake. you could see patches of flaking gold paint up around the crenellations. queen alysanne slept there, so they painted the merlons gold in her honor. a causeway? jojen studied the lake. you are certain? certain, said bran. meera found the foot of it easily enough, once she knew to look; a stone pathway three feet wide, leading right out into the lake. she took them out step by careful step, probing ahead with her frog spear. they could see where the path emerged again, climbing from the water onto the island and turning into a short flight of stone steps that led to the holdfast door. path, steps, and door were in a straight line, which made you think the causeway ran straight, but that wasn't so. under the lake it zigged and zagged, going a third of a way around the island before jagging back. the turns were treacherous, and the long path meant that anyone approaching would be exposed to arrow fire from the tower for a long time. the hidden stones were slimy and slippery too; twice hodor almost lost his footing and shouted hodor! in alarm before regaining his balance. the second time scared bran badly. if hodor fell into the lake with him in his basket, he could well drown, especially if the huge stableboy panicked and forgot that bran was there, the way he did sometimes. maybe we should have stayed at the inn, under the apple tree, he thought, but by then it was too late. thankfully there was no third time, and the water never got up past hodor's waist, though the reeds were in it up to their chests. and before long they were on the island, climbing the steps to the holdfast. the door was still stout, though its heavy oak planks had warped over the years and it could no longer be closed completely. meera shoved it open all the way, the rusted iron hinges screaming. the lintel was low. duck down, hodor, bran said, and he did, but not enough to keep bran from hitting his head. that hurt, he complained. hodor, said hodor, straightening. they found themselves in a gloomy strongroom, barely large enough to hold the four of them. steps built into the inner wall of the tower curved away upward to their left, downward to their right, behind iron grates. bran looked up and saw another grate just above his head. a murder hole. he was glad there was no one up there now to pour boiling oil down on them. the grates were locked, but the iron bars were red with rust. hodor grabbed hold of the lefthand door and gave it a pull, grunting with effort. nothing happened. he tried pushing with no more success. he shook the bars, kicked, shoved against them and rattled them and punched the hinges with a huge hand until the air was filled with flakes of rust, but the iron door would not budge. the one down to the undervault was no more accommodating. no way in, said meera, shrugging. the murder hole was just above bran's head, as he sat in his basket on hodor's back. he reached up and grabbed the bars to give them a try. when he pulled down the grating came out of the ceiling in a cascade of rust and crumbling stone. hodor! hodor shouted. the heavy iron grate gave bran another bang in the head, and crashed down near jojen's feet when he shoved it off of him. meera laughed. look at that, my prince, she said, you're stronger than hodor. bran blushed. with the grate gone, hodor was able to boost meera and jojen up through the gaping murder hole. the crannogmen took bran by the arms and drew him up after them. getting hodor inside was the hard part. he was too heavy for the reeds to lift the way they'd lifted bran. finally bran told him to go look for some big rocks. the island had no lack of those, and hodor was able to pile them high enough to grab the crumbling edges of the hole and climb through. hodor, he panted happily, grinning at all of them. they found themselves in a maze of small cells, dark and empty, but meera explored until she found the way back to the steps. the higher they climbed, the better the light; on the third story the thick outer wall was pierced by arrow slits, the fourth had actual windows, and the fifth and highest was one big round chamber with arched doors on three sides opening onto small stone balconies. on the fourth side was a privy chamber perched above a sewer chute that dropped straight down into the lake. by the time they reached the roof the sky was completely overcast, and the clouds to the west were black. the wind was blowing so strong it lifted up bran's cloak and made it flap and snap. hodor, hodor said at the noise. meera spun in a circle. i feel almost a giant, standing high above the world. there are trees in the neck that stand twice as tall as this, her brother reminded her. aye, but they have other trees around them just as high, said meera. the world presses close in the neck, and the sky is so much smaller. here... feel that wind, brother? and look how large the world has grown. it was true, you could see a long ways from up here. to the south the foothills rose, with the mountains grey and green beyond them. the rolling plains of the new gift stretched away to all the other directions, as far as the eye could see. i was hoping we could see the wall from here, said bran, disappointed. that was stupid, we must still be fifty leagues away. just speaking of it made him feel tired, and cold as well. jojen, what will we do when we reach the wall? my uncle always said how big it was. seven hundred feet high, and so thick at the base that the gates are more like tunnels through the ice. how are we going to get past to find the three-eyed crow? there are abandoned castles along the wall, i've heard, jojen answered. fortresses built by the night's watch but now left empty. one of them may give us our way through. the ghost castles, old nan had called them. maester luwin had once made bran learn the names of every one of the forts along the wall. that had been hard; there were nineteen of them all told, though no more than seventeen had ever been manned at any one time. at the feast in honor of king robert's visit to winterfell, bran had recited the names for his uncle benjen, east to west and then west to east. benjen stark had laughed and said, you know them better than i do, bran. perhaps you should be first ranger. i'll stay here in your place. that was before bran fell, though. before he was broken. by the time he'd woken crippled from his sleep, his uncle had gone back to castle black. my uncle said the gates were sealed with ice and stone whenever a castle had to be abandoned, said bran. then we'll have to open them again, said meera. that made him uneasy. we shouldn't do that. bad things might come through from the other side. we should just go to castle black and tell the lord commander to let us pass. your grace, said jojen, we must avoid castle black, just as we avoided the kingsroad. there are hundreds of men there. men of the night's watch, said bran. they say vows, to take no part in wars and stuff. aye, said jojen, but one man willing to forswear himself would be enough to sell your secret to the ironmen or the bastard of bolton. and we cannot be certain that the watch would agree to let us pass. they might decide to hold us or send us back. but my father was a friend of the night's watch, and my uncle is first ranger. he might know where the three-eyed crow lives. and jon's at castle black too. bran had been hoping to see jon again, and their uncle too. the last black brothers to visit winterfell said that benjen stark had vanished on a ranging, but surely he would have made his way back by now. i bet the watch would even give us horses, he went on. quiet. jojen shaded his eyes with a hand and gazed off toward the setting sun. look. there's something... a rider, i think. do you see him? bran shaded his eyes as well, and even so he had to squint. he saw nothing at first, till some movement made him turn. at first he thought it might be summer, but no. a man on a horse. he was too far away to see much else. hodor? hodor had put a hand over his eyes as well, only he was looking the wrong way. hodor? he is in no haste, said meera, but he's making for this village, it seems to me. we had best go inside, before we're seen, said jojen. summer's near the village, bran objected. summer will be fine, meera promised. it's only one man on a tired horse. a few fat wet drops began to patter against the stone as they retreated to the floor below. that was well timed; the rain began to fall in earnest a short time later. even through the thick walls they could hear it lashing against the surface of the lake. they sat on the floor in the round empty room, amidst gathering gloom. the north-facing balcony looked out toward the abandoned village. meera crept out on her belly to peer across the lake and see what had become of the horseman. he's taken shelter in the ruins of the inn, she told them when she came back, it looks as though he's making a fire in the hearth. i wish we could have a fire, bran said. i'm cold. there's broken furniture down the stairs, i saw it. we could have hodor chop it up and get warm. hodor liked that idea. hodor, he said hopefully. jojen shook his head. fire means smoke. smoke from this tower could be seen a long way off. if there were anyone to see, his sister argued. there's a man in the village. one man. one man would be enough to betray bran to his enemies, if he's the wrong man. we still have half a duck from yesterday. we should eat and rest. come morning the man will go on his way, and we will do the same. jojen had his way; he always did. meera divided the duck between the four of them. she'd caught it in her net the day before, as it tried to rise from the marsh where she'd surprised it. it wasn't as tasty cold as it had been hot and crisp from the spit, but at least they did not go hungry. bran and meera shared the breast while jojen ate the thigh. hodor devoured the wing and leg, muttering hodor and licking the grease off his fingers after every bite. it was bran's turn to tell a story, so he told them about another brandon stark, the one called brandon the shipwright, who had sailed off beyond the sunset sea. dusk was settling by the time duck and tale were done, and the rain still fell. bran wondered how far summer had roamed and whether he had caught one of the deer. grey gloom filled the tower, and slowly changed to darkness. hodor grew restless and walked awhile, striding round and round the walls and stopping to peer into the privy on every circuit, as if he had forgotten what was in there. jojen stood by the north balcony, hidden by the shadows, looking out at the night and the rain. somewhere to the north a lightning bolt crackled across the sky, brightening the inside of the tower for an instant. hodor jumped and made a frightened noise. bran counted to eight, waiting for the thunder. when it came, hodor shouted, hodor! i hope summer isn't scared too, bran thought. the dogs in winterfell's kennels had always been spooked by thunderstorms, just like hodor. i should go see, to calm him... the lightning flashed again, and this time the thunder came at six. hodor! hodor yelled again. hodor! hodor! he snatched up his sword, as if to fight the storm. jojen said, be quiet, hodor. bran, tell him not to shout. can you get the sword away from him, meera? i can try. hodor, hush, said bran. be quiet now. no more stupid hodoring. sit down. hodor? he gave the longsword to meera meekly enough, but his face was a mask of confusion. jojen turned back to the darkness, and they all heard him suck in his breath. what is it? meera asked. men in the village. the man we saw before? other men. armed. i saw an axe, and spears as well. jojen had never sounded so much like the boy he was. i saw them when the lightning flashed, moving under the trees. how many? many and more. too many to count. mounted? no. hodor. hodor sounded frightened. hodor. hodor. bran felt a little scared himself, though he didn't want to say so in front of meera. what if they come out here? they won't. she sat down beside him. why should they? for shelter. jojen's voice was grim. unless the storm lets up. meera, could you go down and bar the door? i couldn't even close it. the wood's too warped. they won't get past those iron gates, though. they might. they could break the lock, or the hinges. or climb up through the murder hole as we did. lightning slashed the sky, and hodor whimpered. then a clap of thunder rolled across the lake. hodor! he roared, clapping his hands over his ears and stumbling in a circle through the darkness. hodor! hodor! hodor! no! bran shouted back. no hodoring! it did no good. hoooodor! moaned hodor. meera tried to catch him and calm him, but he was too strong. he flung her aside with no more than a shrug. hoooooodooooooor! the stableboy screamed as lightning filled the sky again, and even jojen was shouting now, shouting at bran and meera to shut him up. be quiet! bran said in a shrill scared voice, reaching up uselessly for hodor's leg as he crashed past, reaching, reaching. hodor staggered, and closed his mouth. he shook his head slowly from side to side, sank back to the floor, and sat cross-legged. when the thunder boomed, he scarcely seemed to hear it. the four of them sat in the dark tower, scarce daring to breathe. bran, what did you do? meera whispered. nothing. bran shook his head. i don't know. but he did. i reached for him, the way i reach for summer. he had been hodor for half a heartbeat. it scared him. something is happening across the lake, said jojen. i thought i saw a man pointing at the tower. i won't be afraid. he was the prince of winterfell, eddard stark's son, almost a man grown and a warg too, not some little baby boy like rickon. summer would not be afraid. most like they're just some umbers, he said. or they could be knotts or norreys or flints come down from the mountains, or even brothers from the night's watch. were they wearing black cloaks, jojen? by night all cloaks are black, your grace. and the flash came and went too fast for me to tell what they were wearing. meera was wary. if they were black brothers, they'd be mounted, wouldn't they? bran had thought of something else. it doesn't matter, he said confidently. they couldn't get out to us even if they wanted. not unless they had a boat, or knew about the causeway. the causeway! meera mussed bran's hair and kissed him on the forehead. our sweet prince! he's right, jojen, they won't know about the causeway. even if they did they could never find the way across at night in the rain. the night will end, though. if they stay till morning... jojen left the rest unsaid. after a few moments he said, they are feeding the fire the first man started. lightning crashed through the sky, and light filled the tower and etched them all in shadow. hodor rocked back and forth, humming. bran could feel summer's fear in that bright instant. he closed two eyes and opened a third, and his boy's skin slipped off him like a cloak as he left the tower behind... ... and found himself out in the rain, his belly full of deer, cringing in the brush as the sky broke and boomed above him. the smell of rotten apples and wet leaves almost drowned the scent of man, but it was there. he heard the clink and slither of hardskin, saw men moving under the trees. a man with a stick blundered by, a skin pulled up over his head to make him blind and deaf. the wolf went wide around him, behind a dripping thornbush and beneath the bare branches of an apple tree. he could hear them talking, and there beneath the scents of rain and leaves and horse came the sharp red stench of fear... it is only another empty castle, meera reed said as she gazed across the desolation of rubble, ruins, and weeds. no, thought bran, it is the nightfort, and this is the end of the world. in the mountains, all he could think of was reaching the wall and finding the three-eyed crow, but now that they were here he was filled with fears. the dream he'd had... the dream summer had had... no, i mustn't think about that dream. he had not even told the reeds, though meera at least seemed to sense that something was wrong. if he never talked of it maybe he could forget he ever dreamed it, and then it wouldn't have happened and robb and grey wind would still be... hodor. hodor shifted his weight, and bran with it. he was tired. they had been walking for hours. at least he's not afraid. bran was scared of this place, and almost as scared of admitting it to the reeds. i'm a prince of the north, a stark of winterfell, almost a man grown, i have to be as brave as robb. jojen gazed up at him with his dark green eyes. there's nothing here to hurt us, your grace. bran wasn't so certain. the nightfort had figured in some of old nan's scariest stories. it was here that night's king had reigned, before his name was wiped from the memory of man. this was where the rat cook had served the andal king his prince-and-bacon pie, where the seventy- nine sentinels stood their watch, where brave young danny flint had been raped and murdered. this was the castle where king sherrit had called down his curse on the andals of old, where the 'prentice boys had faced the thing that came in the night, where blind symeon star-eyes had seen the hellhounds fighting. mad axe had once walked these yards and climbed these towers, butchering his brothers in the dark. all that had happened hundreds and thousands of years ago, to be sure, and some maybe never happened at all. maester luwin always said that old nan's stories shouldn't be swallowed whole. but once his uncle came to see father, and bran asked about the nightfort. benjen stark never said the tales were true, but he never said they weren't; he only shrugged and said, we left the nightfort two hundred years ago, as if that was an answer. bran forced himself to look around. the morning was cold but bright, the sun shining down from a hard blue sky, but he did not like the noises. the wind made a nervous whistling sound as it shivered through the broken towers, the keeps groaned and settled, and he could hear rats scrabbling under the floor of the great hall. the rat cook's children running from their father. the yards were small forests where spindly trees rubbed their bare branches together and dead leaves scuttled like roaches across patches of old snow. there were trees growing where the stables had been, and a twisted white weirwood pushing up through the gaping hole in the roof of the burned kitchen. even summer was not at ease here. bran slipped inside his skin, just for an instant, to get the smell of the place. he did not like that either. and there was no way through. bran had told them there wouldn't be. he had told them and told them, but jojen reed had insisted on seeing for himself. he had had a green dream, he said, and his green dreams did not lie. they don't open any gates either, thought bran. the gate the nightfort guarded had been sealed since the day the black brothers had loaded up their mules and garrons and departed for deep lake; its iron portcullis lowered, the chains that raised it carried off, the tunnel packed with stone and rubble all frozen together until they were as impenetrable as the wall itself. we should have followed jon, bran said when he saw it. he thought of his bastard brother often, since the night that summer had watched him ride off through the storm. we should have found the kingsroad and gone to castle black. we dare not, my prince, jojen said. i've told you why. but there are wildlings. they killed some man and they wanted to kill jon too. jojen, there were a hundred of them. so you said. we are four. you helped your brother, if that was him in truth, but it almost cost you summer. i know, said bran miserably. the direwolf had killed three of them, maybe more, but there had been too many. when they formed a tight ring around the tall earless man, he had tried to slip away through the rain, but one of their arrows had come flashing after him, and the sudden stab of pain had driven bran out of the wolfs skin and back into his own. after the storm finally died, they had huddled in the dark without a fire, talking in whispers if they talked at all, listening to hodor's heavy breathing and wondering if the wildlings might try and cross the lake in the morning. bran had reached out for summer time and time again, but the pain he found drove him back, the way a red-hot kettle makes you pull your hand back even when you mean to grab it. only hodor slept that night, muttering hodor, hodor, as he tossed and turned. bran was terrified that summer was off dying in the darkness. please, you old gods, he prayed, you took winterfell, and my father, and my legs, please don't take summer too. and watch over jon snow too, and make the wildlings go away. no weirwoods grew on that stony island in the lake, yet somehow the old gods must have heard. the wildlings took their sweet time about departing the next morning, stripping the bodies of their dead and the old man they'd killed, even pulling a few fish from the lake, and there was a scary moment when three of them found the causeway and started to walk out... but the path turned and they didn't, and two of them nearly drowned before the others pulled them out. the tall bald man yelled at them, his words echoing across the water in some tongue that even jojen did not know, and a little while later they gathered up their shields and spears and marched off north by east, the same way jon had gone. bran wanted to leave too, to look for summer, but the reeds said no. we will stay another night, said jojen, put some leagues between us and the wildlings. you don't want to meet them again, do you? late that afternoon summer returned from wherever he'd been hiding, dragging his back leg. he ate parts of the bodies in the inn, driving off the crows, then swam out to the island. meera had drawn the broken arrow from his leg and rubbed the wound with the juice of some plants she found growing around the base of the tower. the direwolf was still limping, but a little less each day, it seemed to bran. the gods had heard. maybe we should try another castle, meera said to her brother. maybe we could get through the gate somewhere else. i could go scout if you wanted, i'd make better time by myself. bran shook his head. if you go east there's deep lake, then queensgate. west is icemark. but they'll be the same, only smaller. all the gates are sealed except the ones at castle black, eastwatch, and the shadow tower. hodor said, hodor, to that, and the reeds exchanged a look. at least i should climb to the top of the wall, meera decided. maybe i'll see something up there. what could you hope to see? jojen asked. something, said meera, and for once she was adamant. it should be me. bran raised his head to look up at the wall, and imagined himself climbing inch by inch, squirming his fingers into cracks in the ice and kicking footholds with his toes. that made him smile in spite of everything, the dreams and the wildlings and jon and everything. he had climbed the walls of winterfell when he was little, and all the towers too, but none of them had been so high, and they were only stone. the wall could look like stone, all grey and pitted, but then the clouds would break and the sun would hit it differently, and all at once it would transform, and stand there white and blue and glittering. it was the end of the world, old nan always said. on the other side were monsters and giants and ghouls, but they could not pass so long as the wall stood strong. i want to stand on top with meera, bran thought. i want to stand on top and see. but he was a broken boy with useless legs, so all he could do was watch from below as meera went up in his stead. she wasn't really climbing, the way he used to climb. she was only walking up some steps that the night's watch had hewn hundreds and thousands of years ago. he remembered maester luwin saying the nightfort was the only castle where the steps had been cut from the ice of the wall itself. or maybe it had been uncle benjen. the newer castles had wooden steps, or stone ones, or long ramps of earth and gravel. ice is too treacherous. it was his uncle who'd told him that. he said that the outer surface of the wall wept icy tears sometimes, though the core inside stayed frozen hard as rock. the steps must have melted and refrozen a thousand times since the last black brothers left the castle, and every time they did they shrunk a little and got smoother and rounder and more treacherous. and smaller. it's almost like the wall was swallowing them back into itself. meera reed was very surefooted, but even so she was going slowly, moving from nub to nub. in two places where the steps were hardly there at all she got down on all fours. it will be worse when she comes down, bran thought, watching. even so, he wished it was him up there. when she reached the top, crawling up the icy knobs that were all that remained of the highest steps, meera vanished from his sight. when will she come down? bran asked jojen. when she is ready. she will want to have a good look... at the wall and what's beyond. we should do the same down here. hodor? said hodor, doubtfully. we might find something, jojen insisted. or something might find us. bran couldn't say it, though; he did not want jojen to think he was craven. so they went exploring, jojen reed leading, bran in his basket on hodor's back, summer padding by their side. once the direwo if bolted through a dark door and returned a moment later with a grey rat between his teeth. the rat cook, bran thought, but it was the wrong color, and only as big as a cat. the rat cook was white, and almost as huge as a sow... there were a lot of dark doors in the nightfort, and a lot of rats. bran could hear them scurrying through the vaults and cellars, and the maze of pitch-black tunnels that connected them. jojen wanted to go poking around down there, but hodor said hodor to that, and bran said no. there were worse things than rats down in the dark beneath the nightfort. this seems an old place, jojen said as they walked down a gallery where the sunlight fell in dusty shafts through empty windows. twice as old as castle black, bran said, remembering. it was the first castle on the wall, and the largest. but it had also been the first abandoned, all the way back in the time of the old king. even then it had been three-quarters empty and too costly to maintain. good queen alysanne had suggested that the watch replace it with a smaller, newer castle at a spot only seven miles east, where the wall curved along the shore of a beautiful green lake. deep lake had been paid for by the queen's jewels and built by the men the old king had sent north, and the black brothers had abandoned the nightfort to the rats. that was two centuries past, though. now deep lake stood as empty as the castle it had replaced, and the nightfort... there are ghosts here, bran said. hodor had heard all the stories before, but jojen might not have. old ghosts, from before the old king, even before aegon the dragon, seventy-nine deserters who went south to be outlaws. one was lord ryswell's youngest son, so when they reached the barrowlands they sought shelter at his castle, but lord ryswell took them captive and returned them to the nightfort. the lord commander had holes hewn in the top of the wall and he put the deserters in them and sealed them up alive in the ice. they have spears and horns and they all face north. the seventy-nine sentinels, they're called. they left their posts in life, so in death their watch goes on forever. years later, when lord ryswell was old and dying, he had himself carried to the nightfort so he could take the black and stand beside his son. he'd sent him back to the wall for honor's sake, but he loved him still, so he came to share his watch. they spent half the day poking through the castle. some of the towers had fallen down and others looked unsafe, but they climbed the bell tower (the bells were gone) and the rookery (the birds were gone). beneath the brewhouse they found a vault of huge oaken casks that boomed hollowly when hodor knocked on them. they found a library (the shelves and bins had collapsed, the books were gone, and rats were everywhere). they found a dank and dim-lit dungeon with cells enough to hold five hundred captives, but when bran grabbed hold of one of the rusted bars it broke off in his hand. only one crumbling wall remained of the great hall, the bathhouse seemed to be sinking into the ground, and a huge thornbush had conquered the practice yard outside the armory where black brothers had once labored with spear and shield and sword. the armory and the forge still stood, however, though cobwebs, rats, and dust had taken the places of blades, bellows, and anvil. sometimes summer would hear sounds that bran seemed deaf to, or bare his teeth at nothing, the fur on the back of his neck bristling... but the rat cook never put in an appearance, nor the seventy-nine sentinels, nor mad axe. bran was much relieved. maybe it is only a ruined empty castle. by the time meera returned, the sun was only a sword's breath above the western hills. what did you see? her brother jojen asked her. i saw the haunted forest, she said in a wistful tone. hills rising wild as far as the eye can see, covered with trees that no axe has ever touched. i saw the sunlight glinting off a lake, and clouds sweeping in from the west. i saw patches of old snow, and icicles long as pikes. i even saw an eagle circling. i think he saw me too. i waved at him. did you see a way down? asked jojen. she shook her head. no. it's a sheer drop, and the ice is so smooth i might be able to make the descent if i had a good rope and an axe to chop out handholds, but... ... but not us, jojen finished. no, his sister agreed. are you sure this is the place you saw in your dream? maybe we have the wrong castle. no. this is the castle. there is a gate here. yes, thought bran, but it's blocked by stone and ice. as the sun began to set the shadows of the towers lengthened and the wind blew harder, sending gusts of dry dead leaves rattling through the yards. the gathering gloom put bran in mind of another of old nan's stories, the tale of night's king. he had been the thirteenth man to lead the night's watch, she said; a warrior who knew no fear. and that was the fault in him, she would add, for all men must know fear. a woman was his downfall; a woman glimpsed from atop the wall, with skin as white as the moon and eyes like blue stars. fearing nothing, he chased her and caught her and loved her, though her skin was cold as ice, and when he gave his seed to her he gave his soul as well. he brought her back to the nightfort and proclaimed her a queen and himself her king, and with strange sorceries he bound his sworn brothers to his will. for thirteen years they had ruled, night's king and his corpse queen, till finally the stark of winterfell and joramun of the wildlings had joined to free the watch from bondage. after his fall, when it was found he had been sacrificing to the others, all records of night's king had been destroyed, his very name forbidden. some say he was a bolton, old nan would always end. some say a magnar out of skagos, some say umber, flint, or norrey. some would have you think he was a woodfoot, from them who ruled bear island before the ironmen came. he never was. he was a stark, the brother of the man who brought him down. she always pinched bran on the nose then, he would never forget it. he was a stark of winterfell, and who can say? mayhaps his name was brandon. mayhaps he slept in this very bed in this very room. no, bran thought, but he walked in this castle, where we'll sleep tonight. he did not like that notion very much at all. night's king was only a man by light of day, old nan would always say, but the night was his to rule. and it's getting dark. the reeds decided that they would sleep in the kitchens, a stone octagon with a broken dome, it looked to offer better shelter than most of the other buildings, even though a crooked weirwood had burst up through the slate floor beside the huge central well, stretching slantwise toward the hole in the roof, its bone-white branches reaching for the sun. it was a queer kind of tree, skinnier than any other weirwood that bran had ever seen and faceless as well, but it made him feel as if the old gods were with him here, at least. that was the only thing he liked about the kitchens, though. the roof was mostly there, so they'd be dry if it rained again, but he didn't think they would ever get warm here. you could feel the cold seeping up through the slate floor. bran did not like the shadows either, or the huge brick ovens that surrounded them like open mouths, or the rusted meat hooks, or the scars and stains he saw in the butcher's block along one wall. that was where the rat cook chopped the prince to pieces, he knew, and he baked the pie in one of these ovens. the well was the thing he liked the least, though. it was a good twelve feet across, all stone, with steps built into its side, circling down and down into darkness. the walls were damp and covered with niter, but none of them could see the water at the bottom, not even meera with her sharp hunter's eyes. maybe it doesn't have a bottom, bran said uncertainly. hodor peered over the knee-high lip of the well and said, hodor! the word echoed down the well, hodorhodorhodorhodor, fainter and fainter, hodorhodorhodorhodor, until it was less than a whisper. hodor looked startled. then he laughed, and bent to scoop a broken piece of slate off the floor. hodor, don't! said bran, but too late. hodor tossed the slate over the edge. you shouldn't have done that. you don't know what's down there. you might have hurt something, or... or woken something up.,, hodor looked at him innocently. hodor? far, far, far below, they heard the sound as the stone found water, it wasn't a splash, not truly. it was more a gulp, as if whatever was below had opened a quivering gelid mouth to swallow hodor's stone. faint echoes traveled up the well, and for a moment bran thought he heard something moving, thrashing about in the water. maybe we shouldn't stay here, he said uneasily. by the well? asked meera. or in the nightfort? yes, said bran. she laughed, and sent hodor out to gather wood. summer went too. it was almost dark by then, and the direwo if wanted to hunt. hodor returned alone with both arms full of deadwood and broken branches. jojen reed took his flint and knife and set about lighting a fire while meera boned the fish she'd caught at the last stream they'd crossed. bran wondered how many years had passed since there had last been a supper cooked in the kitchens of the nightfort. he wondered who had cooked it too, though maybe it was better not to know. when the flames were blazing nicely meera put the fish on. at least it's not a meat pie. the rat cook had cooked the son of the andal king in a big pie with onions, carrots, mushrooms, lots of pepper and salt, a rasher of bacon, and a dark red dornish wine. then he served him to his father, who praised the taste and had a second slice. afterward the gods transformed the cook into a monstrous white rat who could only cat his own young. he had roamed the nightfort ever since, devouring his children, but still his hunger was not sated. it was not for murder that the gods cursed him, old nan said, nor for serving the andal king his son in a pie. a man has a right to vengeance. but he slew a guest beneath his roof, and that the gods cannot forgive. we should sleep, jojen said solemnly, after they were full. the fire was burning low. he stirred it with a stick. perhaps i'll have another green dream to show us the way. hodor was already curled up and snoring lightly. from time to time he thrashed beneath his cloak, and whimpered something that might have been hodor. bran wriggled closer to the fire. the warmth felt good, and the soft crackling of flames soothed him, but sleep would not come. outside the wind was sending armies of dead leaves marching across the courtyards to scratch faintly at the doors and windows. the sounds made him think of old nan's stories. he could almost hear the ghostly sentinels calling to each other atop the wall and winding their ghostly warhorns. pale moonlight slanted down through the hole in the dome, painting the branches of the weirwood as they strained up toward the roof. it looked as if the tree was trying to catch the moon and drag it down into the well. old gods, bran prayed, if you hear me, don't send a dream tonight. or if you do, make it a good dream. the gods made no answer. bran made himself close his eyes. maybe he even slept some, or maybe he was just drowsing, floating the way you do when you are half awake and half asleep, trying not to think about mad axe or the rat cook or the thing that came in the night. then he heard the noise. his eyes opened. what was that? he held his breath. did i dream it? was i having a stupid nightmare? he didn't want to wake meera and jojen for a bad dream, but... there... a soft scuffling sound, far off... leaves, it's leaves rattling off the walls outside and rustling together... or the wind, it could be the wind... the sound wasn't coming from outside, though. bran felt the hairs on his arm start to rise. the sound's inside, it's in here with us, and it's getting louder. he pushed himself up onto an elbow, listening. there was wind, and blowing leaves as well, but this was something else. footsteps. someone was coming this way. something was coming this way. it wasn't the sentinels, he knew. the sentinels never left the wall. but there might be other ghosts in the nightfort, ones even more terrible. he remembered what old nan had said of mad axe, how he took his boots off and prowled the castle halls barefoot in the dark, with never a sound to tell you where he was except for the drops of blood that fell from his axe and his elbows and the end of his wet red beard. or maybe it wasn't mad axe at all, maybe it was the thing that came in the night. the 'prentice boys all saw it, old nan said, but afterward when they told their lord commander every description had been different. and three died within the year, and the fourth went mad, and a hundred years later when the thing had come again, the 'prentice boys were seen shambling along behind it, all in chains. that was only a story, though. he was just scaring himself. there was no thing that comes in the night, maester luwin had said so. if there had ever been such a thing, it was gone from the world now, like giants and dragons. it's nothing, bran thought. but the sounds were louder now. it's coming from the well, he realized. that made him even more afraid. something was coming up from under the ground, coming up out of the dark. hodor woke it up. he woke it up with that stupid piece of slate, and now it's coming. it was hard to hear over hodor's snores and the thumping of his own heart. was that the sound blood made dripping from an axe? or was it the faint, far-off rattling of ghostly chains? bran listened harder. footsteps. it was definitely footsteps, each one a little louder than the one before. he couldn't tell how many, though. the well made the sounds echo. he didn't hear any dripping, or chains either, but there was something else... a high thin whimpering sound, like someone in pain, and heavy muffled breathing. but the footsteps were loudest. the footsteps were coming closer. bran was too frightened to shout. the fire had burned down to a few faint embers and his friends were all asleep. he almost slipped his skin and reached out for his wolf, but summer might be miles away. he couldn't leave his friends helpless in the dark to face whatever was coming up out of the well. i told them not to come here, he thought miserably. i told them there were ghosts. i told them that we should go to castle black. the footfalls sounded heavy to bran, slow, ponderous, scraping against the stone. it must be huge. mad axe had been a big man in old nan's story, and the thing that came in the night had been monstrous. back in winterfell, sansa had told him that the demons of the dark couldn't touch him if he hid beneath his blanket. he almost did that now, before he remembered that he was a prince, and almost a man grown. bran wriggled across the floor, dragging his dead legs behind him until he could reach out and touch meera on the foot. she woke at once. he had never known anyone to wake as quick as meera reed, or to be so alert so fast. bran pressed a finger to his mouth so she'd know not to speak. she heard the sound at once, he could see that on her face; the echoing footfalls, the faint whimpering, the heavy breathing. meera rose to her feet without a word and reclaimed her weapons. with her three-pronged frog spear in her right hand and the folds of her net dangling from her left, she slipped barefoot toward the well. jojen dozed on, oblivious, while hodor muttered and thrashed in restless sleep. she kept to the shadows as she moved, stepped around the shaft of moonlight as quiet as a cat. bran was watching her all the while, and even he could barely see the faint sheen of her spear. i can't let her fight the thing alone, he thought. summer was far away, but... ... he slipped his skin, and reached for hodor. it was not like sliding into summer. that was so easy now that bran hardly thought about it. this was harder, like trying to pull a left boot on your right foot. it fit all wrong, and the boot was scared too, the boot didn't know what was happening, the boot was pushing the foot away. he tasted vomit in the back of hodor's throat, and that was almost enough to make him flee. instead he squirmed and shoved, sat up, gathered his legs under him - his huge strong legs - and rose. i'm standing. he took a step. i'm walking. it was such a strange feeling that he almost fell. he could see himself on the cold stone floor, a little broken thing, but he wasn't broken now. he grabbed hodor's longsword. the breathing was as loud as a blacksmith's bellows. from the well came a wail, a piercing creech that went through him like a knife. a huge black shape heaved itself up into the darkness and lurched toward the moonlight, and the fear rose up in bran so thick that before he could even think of drawing hodor's sword the way he'd meant to, he found himself back on the floor again with hodor roaring hodor hodor hodor, the way he had in the lake tower whenever the lightning flashed. but the thing that came in the night was screaming too, and thrashing wildly in the folds of meera's net. bran saw her spear dart out of the darkness to snap at it, and the thing staggered and fell, struggling with the net. the wailing was still coming from the well, even louder now. on the floor the black thing flopped and fought, screeching, no, no, don't, please, don't... meera stood over him, the moonlight shining silver off the prongs of her frog spear. who are you? she demanded. i'm sam, the black thing sobbed. sam, sam, i'm sam, let me out, you stabbed me... he rolled through the puddle of moonlight, flailing and flopping in the tangles of meera's net. hodor was still shouting, hodor hodor hodor. it was jojen who fed the sticks to the fire and blew on them until the flames leapt up crackling. then there was light, and bran saw the pale thin- faced girl by the lip of the well, all bundled up in furs and skins beneath an enormous black cloak, trying to shush the screaming baby in her arms. the thing on the floor was pushing an arm through the net to reach his knife, but the loops wouldn't let him. he wasn't any monster beast, or even mad axe drenched in gore; only a big fat man dressed up in black wool, black fur, black leather, and black mail. he's a black brother, said bran. meera, he's from the night's watch. hodor? hodor squatted down on his haunches to peer at the man in the net. hodor, he said again, hooting. the night's watch, yes. the fat man was still breathing like a bellows. i'm a brother of the watch. he had one cord under his chins, forcing his head up, and others digging deep into his cheeks. i'm a crow, please. let me out of this. bran was suddenly uncertain. are you the three-eyed crow? he can't be the three-eyed crow i don't think so. the fat man rolled his eyes, but there were only two of them. i'm only sam. samwell tarly. let me out, it's hurting me. he began to struggle again. meera made a disgusted sound. stop flopping around. if you tear my net i'll throw you back down the well. just lie still and i'll untangle you. who are you? jojen asked the girl with the baby. gilly, she said. for the gillyflower. he's sam. we never meant to scare you. she rocked her baby and murmured at it, and finally it stopped crying. meera was untangling the fat brother. jojen went to the well and peered down. where did you come from? from craster's, the girl said. are you the one? jojen turned to look at her. the one? he said that sam wasn't the one, she explained. there was someone else, he said. the one he was sent to find. who said? bran demanded. coldhands, gilly answered softly. meera peeled back one end of her net, and the fat man managed to sit up. he was shaking, bran saw, and still struggling to catch his breath. he said there would be people, he huffed. people in the castle. i didn't know you'd be right at the top of the steps, though. i didn't know you'd throw a net on me or stab me in the stomach. he touched his belly with a black-gloved hand. am i bleeding? i can't see. it was just a poke to get you off your feet, said meera. here, let me have a look. she went to one knee, and felt around his navel. you're wearing mail. i never got near your skin. well, it hurt all the same, sam complained. are you really a brother of the night's watch? bran asked. the fat man's chins jiggled when he nodded. his skin looked pale and saggy. only a steward. i took care of lord mormont's ravens. for a moment he looked like he was going to cry. i lost them at the fist, though. it was my fault. i got us lost too. i couldn't even find the wall. it's a hundred leagues long and seven hundred feet high and i couldn't find it! well, you've found it now, said meera. lift your rump off the ground, i want my net back. how did you get through the wall? jojen demanded as sam struggled to his feet. does the well lead to an underground river, is that where you came from? you're not even wet... there's a gate, said fat sam. a hidden gate, as old as the wall itself. the black gate, he called it. the reeds exchanged a look. we'll find this gate at the bottom of the well? asked jojen. sam shook his head. you won't. i have to take you. why? meera demanded. if there's a gate... you won't find it. if you did it wouldn't open. not for you. it's the black gate. sam plucked at the faded black wool of his sleeve. only a man of the night's watch can open it, he said. a sworn brother who has said his words. he said. jojen frowned. this... coldhands? that wasn't his true name, said gilly, rocking. we only called him that, sam and me. his hands were cold as ice, but he saved us from the dead men, him and his ravens, and he brought us here on his elk. his elk? said bran, wonderstruck. his elk? said meera, startled. his ravens? said jojen. hodor? said hodor. was he green? bran wanted to know. did he have antlers? the fat man was confused. the elk? coldhands, said bran impatiently. the green men ride on elks, old nan used to say. sometimes they have antlers too. he wasn't a green man. he wore blacks, like a brother of the watch, but he was pale as a wight, with hands so cold that at first i was afraid. the wights have blue eyes, though, and they don't have tongues, or they've forgotten how to use them. the fat man turned to jojen. he'll be waiting. we should go. do you have anything warmer to wear? the black gate is cold, and the other side of the wall is even colder. you - why didn't he come with you? meera gestured toward gilly and her babe. they came with you, why not him? why didn't you bring him through this black gate too? he... he can't. why not? the wall. the wall is more than just ice and stone, he said. there are spells woven into it... old ones, and strong. he cannot pass beyond the wall. it grew very quiet in the castle kitchen then. bran could hear the soft crackle of the flames, the wind stirring the leaves in the night, the creak of the skinny weirwood reaching for the moon. beyond the gates the monsters live, and the giants and the ghouls, he remembered old nan saying, but they cannot pass so long as the wall stands strong. so go to sleep, my little brandon, my baby boy. you needn't fear. there are no monsters here. i am not the one you were told to bring, jojen reed told fat sam in his stained and baggy blacks. he is. oh. sam looked down at him uncertainly. it might have been just then that he realized bran was crippled. i don't... i'm not strong enough to carry you, i... hodor can carry me. bran pointed at his basket. i ride in that, up on his back. sam was staring at him. you're jon snow's brother. the one who fell... no, said jojen. that boy is dead. don't tell, bran warned. please. sam looked confused for a moment, but finally he said, i... i can keep a secret. gilly too. when he looked at her, the girl nodded. jon ...jon was my brother too. he was the best friend i ever had, but he went off with qhorin halfhand to scout the frostfangs and never came back. we were waiting for him on the fist when... when... jon's here, bran said. summer saw him. he was with some wildlings, but they killed a man and jon took his horse and escaped. i bet he went to castle black. sam turned big eyes on meera. you're certain it was jon? you saw him? i'm meera, meera said with a smile. summer is... a shadow detached itself from the broken dome above and leapt down through the moonlight. even with his injured leg, the wolf landed as light and quiet as a snowfall. the girl gilly made a frightened sound and clutched her babe so hard against her that it began to cry again. he won't hurt you, bran said. that's summer. jon said you all had wolves. sam pulled off a glove. i know ghost. he held out a shaky hand, the fingers white and soft and fat as little sausages. summer padded closer, sniffed them, and gave the hand a lick. that was when bran made up his mind. we'll go with you. all of you? sam seemed surprised by that. meera ruffled bran's hair. he's our prince. summer circled the well, sniffing. he paused by the top step and looked back at bran. he wants to go. will gilly be safe if i leave her here till i come back? sam asked them. she should be, said meera. she's welcome to our fire. jojen said, the castle is empty. gilly looked around. craster used to tell us tales of castles, but i never knew they'd be so big. it's only the kitchens. bran wondered what she'd think when she saw winterfell, if she ever did. it took them a few minutes to gather their things and hoist bran into his wicker seat on hodor's back. by the time they were ready to go, gilly sat nursing her babe by the fire. you'll come back for me, she said to sam. as soon as i can, he promised, then we'll go somewhere warm. when he heard that, part of bran wondered what he was doing. will i ever go someplace warm again? i'll go first, i know the way. sam hesitated at the top. there's just so many steps, he sighed, before he started down. jojen followed, then summer, then hodor with bran riding on his back. meera took the rear, with her spear and net in hand. it was a long way down. the top of the well was bathed in moonlight, but it grew smaller and dimmer every time they went around. their footsteps echoed off the damp stones, and the water sounds grew louder. should we have brought torches? jojen asked. your eyes will adjust, said sam. keep one hand on the wall and you won't fall. the well grew darker and colder with every turn. when bran finally lifted his head around to look back up the shaft, the top of the well was no bigger than a half- moon. hodor, hodor whispered, hodorhodorhodorhodorhodorhodor, the well whispered back. the water sounds were close, but when bran peered down he saw only blackness. a turn or two later sam stopped suddenly. he was a quarter of the way around the well from bran and hodor and six feet farther down, yet bran could barely see him. he could see the door, though. the black gate, sam had called it, but it wasn't black at all. it was white weirwood, and there was a face on it. a glow came from the wood, like milk and moonlight, so faint it scarcely seemed to touch anything beyond the door itself, not even sam standing right before it. the face was old and pale, wrinkled and shrunken. it looks dead. its mouth was closed, and its eyes; its cheeks were sunken, its brow withered, its chin sagging. if a man could live for a thousand years and never die but just grow older, his face might come to look like that. the door opened its eyes. they were white too, and blind. who are you? the door asked, and the well whispered, who -who -who -who -who -who who .  i am the sword in the darkness, samwell tarly said. i am the watcher on the walls. i am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers. i am the shield that guards the realms of men. then pass, the door said, its lips opened, wide and wider and wider still, until nothing at all remained but a great gaping mouth in a ring of wrinkles. sam stepped aside and waved jojen through ahead of him. summer followed, sniffing as he went, and then it was bran's turn. hodor ducked, but not low enough. the door's upper lip brushed softly against the top of bran's head, and a drop of water fell on him and ran slowly down his nose. it was strangely warm, and salty as a tear. 