ser desmond grell had served house tully all his life. he had been a squire when catelyn was born, a knight when she learned to walk and ride and swim, master-at-arms by the day that she was wed. he had seen lord hoster's little cat become a young woman, a great lord's lady, mother to a king. and now he has seen me become a traitor as well. her brother edmure had named ser desmond castellan of riverrun when he rode off to battle, so it fell to him to deal with her crime. to ease his discomfort he brought her father's steward with him, dour utherydes wayn. the two men stood and looked at her; ser desmond stout, red- faced, embarrassed, utherydes grave, gaunt, melancholy. each waited for the other to speak. they have given their lives to my father's service, and i have repaid them with disgrace, catelyn thought wearily. your sons, ser desmond said at last. maester vyman told us. the poor lads. terrible. terrible. but... we share your grief, my lady, said utherydes wayn. all riverrun mourns with you, but... the news must have driven you mad, ser desmond broke in, a madness of grief, a mother's madness, men will understand. you did not know... i did, catelyn said firmly. i understood what i was doing and knew it was treasonous. if you fail to punish me, men will believe that we connived together to free jaime lannister. it was mine own act and mine alone, and i alone must answer for it. put me in the kingslayer's empty irons, and i will wear them proudly, if that is how it must be. fetters? the very word seemed to shock poor ser desmond. for the king's mother, my lord's own daughter? impossible. mayhaps, said the steward utherydes wayn, my lady would consent to be confined to her chambers until ser edmure returns. a time alone, to pray for her murdered sons? confined, aye, ser desmond said. confined to a tower cell, that would serve. if i am to be confined, let it be in my father's chambers, so i might comfort him in his last days. ser desmond considered a moment. very well. you shall lack no comfort nor courtesy, but freedom of the castle is denied you. visit the sept as you need, but elsewise remain in lord hoster's chambers until lord edmure returns. as you wish. her brother was no lord while their father lived, but catelyn did not correct him. set a guard on me if you must, but i give you my pledge that i shall attempt no escape. ser desmond nodded, plainly glad to be done with his distasteful task, but sad-eyed utherydes wayn lingered a moment after the castellan took his leave. it was a grave thing you did, my lady, but for naught. ser desmond has sent ser robin ryger after them, to bring back the kings layer... or failing that, his head. catelyn had expected no less. may the warrior give strength to your sword arm, brienne, she prayed. she had done all she could; nothing remained but to hope. her things were moved into her father's bedchamber, dominated by the great canopied bed she had been born in, its pillars carved in the shapes of leaping trout. her father himself had been moved half a turn down the stair, his sickbed placed to face the triangular balcony that opened off his solar, from whence he could see the rivers that he had always loved so well. lord hoster was sleeping when catelyn entered. she went out to the balcony and stood with one hand on the rough stone balustrade. beyond the point of the castle the swift tumblestone joined the placid red fork, and she could see a long way downriver. if a striped sail comes from the east, it will be ser robin returning. for the moment the surface of the waters was empty. she thanked the gods for that, and went back inside to sit with her father. catelyn could not say if lord hoster knew that she was there, or if her presence brought him any comfort, but it gave her solace to be with him. what would you say if you knew my crime, father? she wondered. would you have done as i did, if it were lysa and me in the hands of our enemies? or would you condemn me too, and call it mother's madness? there was a smell of death about that room; a heavy smell, sweet and foul, clinging. it reminded her of the sons that she had lost, her sweet bran and her little rickon, slain at the hand of theon greyjoy, who had been ned's ward. she still grieved for ned, she would always grieve for ned, but to have her babies taken as well... it is a monstrous cruel thing to lose a child, she whispered softly, more to herself than to her father. lord hoster's eyes opened. tansy, he husked in a voice thick with pain. he does not know me. catelyn had grown accustomed to him taking her for her mother or her sister lysa, but tansy was a name strange to her. it's catelyn, she said. it's cat, father. forgive me... the blood... oh, please... tansy... could there have been another woman in her father's life? some village maiden he had wronged when he was young, perhaps? could he have found comfort in some serving wench's arms after mother died? it was a queer thought, unsettling. suddenly she felt as though she had not known her father at all. who is tansy, my lord? do you want me to send for her, father? where would i find the woman? does she still live? lord hoster groaned. dead. his hand groped for hers. you'll have others... sweet babes, and trueborn. others? catelyn thought. has he forgotten that ned is gone? is he still talking to tansy, or is it me now, or lysa, or mother? when he coughed, the sputum came up bloody. he clutched her fingers ... be a good wife and the gods will bless you... sons... trueborn sons... aaahhh. the sudden spasm of pain made lord hoster's hand tighten. his nails dug into her hand, and he gave a muffled scream. maester vyman came quickly, to mix another dose of milk of the poppy and help his lord swallow it down. soon enough, lord hoster tully had fallen back into a heavy sleep. he was asking after a woman, said cat. tansy. tansy? the maester looked at her blankly. you know no one by that name? a serving girl, a woman from some nearby village? perhaps someone from years past? catelyn had been gone from riverrun for a very long time. no, my lady. i can make inquiries, if you like. utherydes wayn would surely know if any such person ever served at riverrun. tansy, did you say? the smallfolk often name their daughters after flowers and herbs. the maester looked thoughtful. there was a widow, i recall, she used to come to the castle looking for old shoes in need of new soles. her name was tansy, now that i think on it. or was it pansy? some such. but she has not come for many years... her name was violet, said catelyn, who remembered the old woman very well. was it? the maester looked apologetic. my pardons, lady catelyn, but i may not stay. ser desmond has decreed that we are to speak to you only so far as our duties require. then you must do as he commands. catelyn could not blame ser desmond; she had given him small reason to trust her, and no doubt he feared that she might use the loyalty that many of the folk of riverrun would still feel toward their lord's daughter to work some further mischief. i am free of the war, at least, she told herself, if only for a little while. after the maester had gone, she donned a woolen cloak and stepped out onto the balcony once more. sunlight shimmered on the rivers, gilding the surface of the waters as they rolled past the castle. catelyn shaded her eyes against the glare, searching for a distant sail, dreading the sight of one. but there was nothing, and nothing meant that her hopes were still alive. all that day she watched, and well into the night, until her legs ached from the standing. a raven came to the castle in late afternoon, flapping down on great black wings to the rookery. dark wings, dark words, she thought, remembering the last bird that had come and the horror it had brought. maester vyman returned at evenfall to minister to lord tully and bring catelyn a modest supper of bread, cheese, and boiled beef with horseradish. i spoke to utherydes wayn, my lady. he is quite certain that no woman by the name of tansy has ever been at riverrun during his service. there was a raven today, i saw. has jaime been taken again? or slain, gods forbid? no, my lady, we've had no word of the kingslayer. is it another battle, then? is edmure in difficulty? or robb? please, be kind, put my fears at rest. my lady, i should not... vyman glanced about, as if to make certain no one else was in the room. lord tywin has left the riverlands. all's quiet on the fords. whence came the raven, then? from the west, he answered, busying himself with lord hoster's bedclothes and avoiding her eyes. was it news of robb? he hesitated. yes, my lady. something is wrong. she knew it from his manner. he was hiding something from her. tell me. is it robb? is he hurt? not dead, gods be good, please do not tell me that he is dead. his grace took a wound storming the crag, maester vyman said, still evasive, but writes that it is no cause for concern, and that he hopes to return soon. a wound? what sort of wound? how serious? no cause for concern, he writes. all wounds concern me. is he being cared for? i am certain of it. the maester at the crag will tend to him, i have no doubt. where was he wounded? my lady, i am commanded not to speak with you. i am sorry. gathering up his potions, vyman made a hurried exit, and once again catelyn was left alone with her father. the milk of the poppy had done its work, and lord hoster was sunk in heavy sleep. a thin line of spittle ran down from one comer of his open mouth to dampen his pillow. catelyn took a square of linen and wiped it away gently. when she touched him, lord hoster moaned. forgive me, he said, so softly she could scarcely hear the words. tansy... blood... the blood... gods be kind... his words disturbed her more than she could say, though she could make no sense of them. blood, she thought. must it all come back to blood? father, who was this woman, and what did you do to her that needs so much forgiveness? that night catelyn slept fitfully, haunted by formless dreams of her children, the lost and the dead. well before the break of day, she woke with her father's words echoing in her ears. sweet babes, and trueborn... why would he say that, unless... could he have fathered a bastard on this woman tansy? she could not believe it. her brother edmure, yes; it would not have surprised her to learn that edmure had a dozen natural children. but not her father, not lord hoster tully, never. could tansy be some pet name he called lysa, the way he called me cat? lord hoster had mistaken her for her sister before. you'll have others, he said. sweet babes, and trueborn. lysa had miscarried five times, twice in the eyrie, thrice at king's landing... but never at riverrun, where lord hoster would have been at hand to comfort her. never, unless... unless she was with child, that first time... she and her sister had been married on the same day, and left in their father's care when their new husbands had ridden off to rejoin robert's rebellion. afterward, when their moon blood did not come at the accustomed time, lysa had gushed happily of the sons she was certain they carried. your son will be heir to winterfell and mine to the eyrie. oh, they'll be the best of friends, like your ned and lord robert. they'll be more brothers than cousins, truly, i just know it. she was so happy. but lysa's blood had come not long after, and all the joy had gone out of her. catelyn had always thought that lysa had simply been a little late, but if she had been with child... she remembered the first time she gave her sister robb to hold; small, red- faced, and squalling, but strong even then, full of life. no sooner had catelyn placed the babe in her sister's arms than lysa's face dissolved into tears. hurriedly she had thrust the baby back at catelyn and fled. if she had lost a child before, that might explain father's words, and much else besides... lysa's match with lord arryn had been hastily arranged, and jon was an old man even then, older than their father. an old man without an heir. his first two wives had left him childless, his brother's son had been murdered with brandon stark in king's landing, his gallant cousin had died in the battle of the bells. he needed a young wife if house arryn was to continue... a young wife known to be fertile. catelyn rose, threw on a robe, and descended the steps to the darkened solar to stand over her father. a sense of helpless dread filled her. father, she said, father, i know what you did. she was no longer an innocent bride with a head full of dreams. she was a widow, a traitor, a grieving mother, and wise, wise in the ways of the world. you made him take her, she whispered. lysa was the price jon arryn had to pay for the swords and spears of house tully. small wonder her sister's marriage had been so loveless. the arryns were proud, and prickly of their honor. lord jon might wed lysa to bind the tullys to the cause of the rebellion, and in hopes of a son, but it would have been hard for him to love a woman who came to his bed soiled and unwilling. he would have been kind, no doubt; dutiful, yes; but lysa needed warmth. the next day, as she broke her fast, catelyn asked for quill and paper and began a letter to her sister in the vale of arryn. she told lysa of bran and rickon, struggling with the words, but mostly she wrote of their father. his thoughts are all of the wrong he did you, now that his time grows short. maester vyman says he dare not make the milk of the poppy any stronger. it is time for father to lay down his sword and shield. it is time for him to rest. yet he fights on grimly, will not yield. it is for your sake, i think. he needs your forgiveness. the war has made the road from the eyrie to riverrun dangerous to travel, i know, but surely a strong force of knights could see you safely through the mountains of the moon? a hundred men, or a thousand? and if you cannot come, will you not write him at least? a few words of love, so he might die in peace? write what you will, and i shall read it to him, and ease his way. even as she set the quill aside and asked for sealing wax, catelyn sensed that the letter was like to be too little and too late. maester vyman did not believe lord hoster would linger long enough for a raven to reach the eyrie and return. though he has said much the same before... tully men did not surrender easily, no matter the odds. after she entrusted the parchment to the maester's care, catelyn went to the sept and lit a candle to the father above for her own father's sake, a second to the crone, who had let the first raven into the world when she peered through the door of death, and a third to the mother, for lysa and all the children they had both lost. later that day, as she sat at lord hoster's bedside with a book, reading the same passage over and over, she heard the sound of loud voices and a trumpet's blare. ser robin, she thought at once, flinching. she went to the balcony, but there was nothing to be seen out on the rivers, but she could hear the voices more clearly from outside, the sound of many horses, the clink of armor, and here and there a cheer. catelyn made her way up the winding stairs to the roof of the keep. ser desmond did not forbid me the roof, she told herself as she climbed. the sounds were coming from the far side of the castle, by the main gate. a knot of men stood before the portcullis as it rose in jerks and starts, and in the fields beyond, outside the castle, were several hundred riders. when the wind blew, it lifted their banners, and she trembled in relief at the sight of the leaping trout of riverrun. edmure. it was two hours before he saw fit to come to her. by then the castle rang to the sound of noisy reunions as men embraced the women and children they had left behind. three ravens had risen from the rookery, black wings beating at the air as they took flight. catelyn watched them from her father's balcony. she had washed her hair, changed her clothing, and prepared herself for her brother's reproaches... but even so, the waiting was hard. when at last she heard sounds outside her door, she sat and folded her hands in her lap. dried red mud spattered edmure's boots, greaves, and surcoat. to look at him, you would never know he had won his battle. he was thin and drawn, with pale cheeks, unkempt beard, and too-bright eyes. edmure, catelyn said, worried, you look unwell. has something happened? have the lannisters crossed the river? i threw them back. lord tywin, gregor clegane, addam marbrand, i turned them away. stannis, though... he grimaced. stannis? what of stannis? he lost the battle at king's landing, edmure said unhappily. his fleet was burned, his army routed. a lannister victory was ill tidings, but catelyn could not share her brother's obvious dismay. she still had nightmares about the shadow she had seen slide across renly's tent and the way the blood had come flowing out through the steel of his gorget. stannis was no more a friend than lord tywin. you do not understand. highgarden has declared for joffrey. dome as well. all the south. his mouth tightened. and you see fit to loose the kingslayer. you had no right. i had a mother's right. her voice was calm, though the news about highgarden was a savage blow to robb's hopes. she could not think about that now, though. no right, edmure repeated. he was robb's captive, your king's captive, and robb charged me to keep him safe. brienne will keep him safe. she swore it on her sword. that woman? she will deliver jaime to king's landing, and bring arya and sansa back to us safely. cersei will never give them up.  not cersei. tyrion. he swore it, in open court. and the kingslayer swore it as well. jaime's word is worthless. as for the imp, it's said he took an axe in the head during the battle. he'll be dead before your brienne reaches king's landing, if she ever does. dead? could the gods truly be so merciless? she had made jaime swear a hundred oaths, but it was his brother's promise she had pinned her hopes on. edmure was blind to her distress. jaime was my charge, and i mean to have him back. i've sent ravens. ravens to whom? how many? three, he said, so the message will be certain to reach lord bolton. by river or road, the way from riverrun to king's landing must needs take them close by harrenhal. harrenhal. the very word seemed to darken the room. horror thickened her voice as she said, edmure, do you know what you have done? have no fear, i left your part out. i wrote that jaime had escaped, and offered a thousand dragons for his recapture. worse and worse, catelyn thought in despair. my brother is a fool. unbidden, unwanted, tears filled her eyes. if this was an escape, she said softly, and not an exchange of hostages, why should the lannisters give my daughters to brienne? it will never come to that. the kingslayer will be returned to us, i have made certain of it. all you have made certain is that i shall never see my daughters again. brienne might have gotten him to king's landing safely... so long as no one was hunting for them. but now... catelyn could not go on. leave me, edmure. she had no right to command him, here in the castle that would soon be his, yet her tone would brook no argument. leave me to father and my grief, i have no more to say to you. go. go. all she wanted was to lie down, to close her eyes and sleep, and pray no dreams would come. robb, she knew, the moment she heard the kennels erupt. her son had returned to riverrun, and grey wind with him. only the scent of the great grey direwo if could send the hounds into such a frenzy of baying and barking. he will come to me, she knew. edmure had not returned after his first visit, preferring to spend his days with marq piper and patrek mallister, listening to rymund the rhymer's verses about the battle at the stone mill. robb is not edmure, though. robb will see me. it had been raining for days now, a cold grey downpour that well suited catelyn's mood. her father was growing weaker and more delirious with every passing day, waking only to mutter, tansy, and beg forgiveness. edmure shunned her, and ser desmond grell still denied her freedom of the castle, however unhappy it seemed to make him. only the return of ser robin ryger and his men, footweary and drenched to the bone, served to lighten her spirits. they had walked back, it seemed. somehow the kingslayer had contrived to sink their galley and escape, maester vyman confided. catelyn asked if she might speak with ser robin to learn more of what had happened, but that was refused her. something else was wrong as well. on the day her brother returned, a few hours after their argument, she had heard angry voices from the yard below. when she climbed to the roof to see, there were knots of men gathered across the castle beside the main gate. horses were being led from the stables, saddled and bridled, and there was shouting, though catelyn was too far away to make out the words. one of robb's white banners lay on the ground, and one of the knights turned his horse and trampled over the direwo if as he spurred toward the gate. several others did the same. those are men who fought with edmure on the fords, she thought. what could have made them so angry? has my brother slighted them somehow, given them some insult? she thought she recognized ser perwyn frey, who had traveled with her to bitterbridge and storm's end and back, and his bastard half brother martyn rivers as well, but from this vantage it was hard to be certain. close to forty men poured out through the castle gates, to what end she did not know. they did not come back. nor would maester vyman tell her who they had been, where they had gone, or what had made them so angry. i am here to see to your father, and only that, my lady, he said. your brother will soon be lord of riverrun. what he wishes you to know, he must tell you. but now robb was returned from the west, returned in triumph. he will forgive me, catelyn told herself. he must forgive me, he is my own son, and arya and sansa are as much his blood as mine. he will free me from these rooms and then i will know what has happened. by the time ser desmond came for her, she had bathed and dressed and combed out her auburn hair. king robb has returned from the west, my lady, the knight said, and commands that you attend him in the great hall. it was the moment she had dreamt of and dreaded. have i lost two sons, or three? she would know soon enough. the hall was crowded when they entered. every eye was on the dais, but catelyn knew their backs: lady mormont's patched ringmail, the greatjon and his son looming above every other head in the hall, lord jason mallister white-haired with his winged helm in the crook of his arm, tytos blackwood in his magnificent raven- feather cloak... half of them will want to hang me now. the other half may only turn their eyes away. she had the uneasy feeling that someone was missing, too. robb stood on the dais. he is a boy no longer, she realized with a pang. he is sixteen now, a man grown. just look at him. war had melted all the softness from his face and left him hard and lean. he had shaved his beard away, but his auburn hair fell uncut to his shoulders. the recent rains had rusted his mail and left brown stains on the white of his cloak and surcoat. or perhaps the stains were blood. on his head was the sword crown they had fashioned him of bronze and iron. he bears it more comfortably now he bears it like a king. edmure stood below the crowded dais, head bowed modestly as robb praised his victory. ... fell at the stone mill shall never be forgotten. small wonder lord tywin ran off to fight stannis. he'd had his fill of northmen and rivermen both. that brought laughter and approving shouts, but robb raised a hand for quiet. make no mistake, though. the lannisters will march again, and there will be other battles to win before the kingdom is secure. the greatjon roared out, king in the north! and thrust a mailed fist into the air. the river lords answered with a shout of king of the trident! the hall grew thunderous with pounding fists and stamping feet. only a few noted catelyn and ser desmond amidst the tumult, but they elbowed their fellows, and slowly a hush grew around her. she held her head high and ignored the eyes. let them think what they will. it is robb's judgment that matters. the sight of ser brynden tully's craggy face on the dais gave her comfort. a boy she did not know seemed to be acting as robb's squire. behind him stood a young knight in a sand-colored surcoat blazoned with seashells, and an older one who wore three black pepperpots on a saffron bend, across a field of green and silver stripes. between them were a handsome older lady and a pretty maid who looked to be her daughter. there was another girl as well, near sansa's age. the seashells were the sigil of some lesser house, catelyn knew; the older man's she did not recognize. prisoners? why would robb bring captives onto the dais? utherydes wayn banged his staff on the floor as ser desmond escorted her forward. if robb looks at me as edmure did, i do not know what i will do. but it seemed to her that it was not anger she saw in her son's eyes, but something else... apprehension, perhaps? no, that made no sense. what should he fear? he was the young wolf, king of the trident and the north. her uncle was the first to greet her. as black a fish as ever, ser brynden had no care for what others might think. he leapt off the dais and pulled catelyn into his arms. when he said, it is good to see you home, cat, she had to struggle to keep her composure. and you, she whispered. mother. catelyn looked up at her tall kingly son. your grace, i have prayed for your safe return. i had heard you were wounded. i took an arrow through the arm while storming the crag, he said. it's healed well, though. i had the best of care. the gods are good, then. catelyn took a deep breath. say it. it cannot be avoided. they will have told you what i did. did they tell you my reasons? for the girls. i had five children. now i have three. aye, my lady. lord rickard karstark pushed past the greatjon, like some grim specter with his black mail and long ragged grey beard, his narrow face pinched and cold. and i have one son, who once had three. you have robbed me of my vengeance. catelyn faced him calmly. lord rickard, the kingslayer's dying would not have bought life for your children. his living may buy life for mine. the lord was unappeased. jaime lannister has played you for a fool. you've bought a bag of empty words, no more. my torrhen and my eddard deserved better of you. leave off, karstark, rumbled the greatjon, crossing his huge arms against his chest. it was a mother's folly. women are made that way. a mother's folly? lord karstark rounded on lord umber. i name it treason. enough. for just an instant robb sounded more like brandon than his father. no man calls my lady of winter fell a traitor in my hearing, lord rickard. when he turned to catelyn, his voice softened. if i could wish the kingslayer back in chains i would. you freed him without my knowledge or consent... but what you did, i know you did for love. for arya and sansa, and out of grief for bran and rickon. love's not always wise, i've learned. it can lead us to great folly, but we follow our hearts... wherever they take us. don't we, mother? is that what i did? if my heart led me into folly, i would gladly make whatever amends i can to lord karstark and yourself. lord rickard's face was implacable. will your amends warm torrhen and eddard in the cold graves where the kingslayer laid them? he shouldered between the greatjon and maege mormont and left the hall. robb made no move to detain him. forgive him, mother. if you will forgive me. i have. i know what it is to love so greatly you can think of nothing else. catelyn bowed her head. thank you. i have not lost this child, at least. we must talk, robb went on. you and my uncles. of this and... other things. steward, call an end. utherydes wayn slammed his staff on the floor and shouted the dismissal, and river lords and northerners alike moved toward the doors. it was only then that catelyn realized what was amiss. the wolf. the wolf is not here. where is grey wind? she knew the direwolf had returned with robb, she had heard the dogs, but he was not in the hall, not at her son's side where he belonged. before she could think to question robb, however, she found herself surrounded by a circle of well-wishers. lady mormont took her hand and said, my lady, if cersei lannister held two of my daughters, i would have done the same. the greatjon, no respecter of proprieties, lifted her off her feet and squeezed her arms with his huge hairy hands. your wolf pup mauled the kings layer once, he'll do it again if need be. galbart glover and lord jason mallister were cooler, and jonos bracken almost icy, but their words were courteous enough. her brother was the last to approach her. i pray for your girls as well, cat. i hope you do not doubt that. of course not. she kissed him. i love you for it. when all the words were done, the great hall of riverrun was empty save for robb, the three tullys, and the six strangers catelyn could not place. she eyed them curiously. my lady, sers, are you new to my son's cause? new, said the younger knight, him of the seashells, but fierce in our courage and firm in our loyalties, as i hope to prove to you, my lady. robb looked uncomfortable. mother, he said, may i present the lady sybell, the wife of lord gawen westerling of the crag. the older woman came forward with solemn mien. her husband was one of those we took captive in the whispering wood. westerling, yes, catelyn thought. their banner is six seashells, white on sand. a minor house sworn to the lannisters. robb beckoned the other strangers forward, each in turn. ser rolph spicer, lady sybell' s brother. he was castellan at the crag when we took it. the pepperpot knight inclined his head. a square-built man with a broken nose and a close-cropped grey beard, he looked doughty enough. the children of lord gawen and lady sybell. ser raynald westerling. the seashell knight smiled beneath a bushy mustache. young, lean, rough-hewn, he had good teeth and a thick mop of chestnut hair. elenya. the little girl did a quick curtsy. rollarn westerling, my squire. the boy started to kneel, saw no one else was kneeling, and bowed instead. the honor is mine, catelyn said. can robb have won the crag's allegiance? if so, it was no wonder the westerlings were with him. casterly rock did not suffer such betrayals gently. not since tywin lannister had been old enough to go to war... the maid came forward last, and very shy. robb took her hand. mother, he said, i have the great honor to present you the lady jeyne westerling. lord gawen's elder daughter, and my... ah... my lady wife. the first thought that flew across catelyn' s mind was, no, that cannot be, you are only a child. the second was, and besides, you have pledged another. the third was, mother have mercy, robb, what have you done? only then came her belated remembrance. follies done for love? he has bagged me neat as a hare in a snare. i seem to have already forgiven him. mixed with her annoyance was a rueful admiration; the scene had been staged with the cunning worthy of a master mummer... or a king. catelyn saw no choice but to take jeyne westerling's hands. i have a new daughter, she said, more stiffly than she'd intended. she kissed the terrified girl on both cheeks. be welcome to our hall and hearth. thank you, my lady. i shall be a good and true wife to robb, i swear. and as wise a queen as i can. queen. yes, this pretty little girl is a queen, i must remember that. she was pretty, undeniably, with her chestnut curls and heart-shaped face, and that shy smile. slender, but with good hips, catelyn noted. she should have no trouble bearing children, at least. lady sybell took a hand before any more was said. we are honored to be joined to house stark, my lady, but we are also very weary. we have come a long way in a short time. perhaps we might retire to our chambers, so you may visit with your son? that would be best. robb kissed his jeyne. the steward will find you suitable accommodations. i'll take you to him, ser edmure tully volunteered. you are most kind, said lady sybell. must i go too? asked the boy, rollam. i'm your squire. robb laughed. but i'm not in need of squiring just now. oh. his grace has gotten along for sixteen years without you, rollam, said ser raynald of the seashells. he will survive a few hours more, i think. taking his little brother firmly by the hand, he walked him from the hall. your wife is lovely, catelyn said when they were out of earshot, and the westerlings seem worthy... though lord gawen is tywin lannister's sworn man, is he not? yes. jason mallister captured him in the whispering wood and has been holding him at seagard for ransom. of course i'll free him now, though he may not wish to join me. we wed without his consent, i fear, and this marriage puts him in dire peril. the crag is not strong. for love of me, jeyne may lose all. and you, she said softly, have lost the freys. his wince told all. she understood the angry voices now, why perwyn frey and martyn rivers had left in such haste, trampling robb's banner into the ground as they went. dare i ask how many swords come with your bride, robb? fifty. a dozen knights. his voice was glum, as well it might be. when the marriage contract had been made at the twins, old lord walder frey had sent robb off with a thousand mounted knights and near three thousand foot. jeyne is bright as well as beautiful. and kind as well. she has a gentle heart. it is swords you need, not gentle hearts. how could you do this, robb? how could you be so heedless, so stupid? how could you be so... so very... young. reproaches would not serve here, however. all she said was, tell me how this came to be. i took her castle and she took my heart.,' robb smiled. the crag was weakly garrisoned, so we took it by storm one night. black walder and the smalljon led scaling parties over the walls, while i broke the main gate with a ram. i took an arrow in the arm just before ser rolph yielded us the castle. it seemed nothing at first, but it festered. jeyne had me taken to her own bed, and she nursed me until the fever passed. and she was with me when the greatjon brought me the news of... of winterfell. bran and rickon. he seemed to have trouble saying his brothers' names. that night, she... she comforted me, mother. catelyn did not need to be told what sort of comfort jeyne westerling had offered her son. and you wed her the next day. he looked her in the eyes, proud and miserable all at once. it was the only honorable thing to do. she's gentle and sweet, mother, she will make me a good wife. perhaps. that will not appease lord frey. i know, her son said, stricken. i've made a botch of everything but the battles, haven't i? i thought the battles would be the hard part, but... if i had listened to you and kept theon as my hostage, i'd still rule the north, and bran and rickon would be alive and safe in winterfell. perhaps. or not. lord balon might still have chanced war. the last time he reached for a crown, it cost him two sons. he might have thought it a bargain to lose only one this time. she touched his arm. what happened with the freys, after you wed? robb shook his head. with ser stevron, i might have been able to make amends, but ser ryman is dull-witted as a stone, and black walder... that one was not named for the color of his beard, i promise you. he went so far as to say that his sisters would not be loath to wed a widower. i would have killed him for that if jeyne had not begged me to be merciful. you have done house frey a grievous insult, robb. i never meant to. ser stevron died for me, and olyvar was as loyal a squire as any king could want. he asked to stay with me, but ser ryman took him with the rest. all their strength. the greatjon urged me to attack them... fighting your own in the midst of your enemies? she said. it would have been the end of you. yes. i thought perhaps we could arrange other matches for lord walder's daughters. ser wendel manderly has offered to take one, and the greatjon tells me his uncles wish to wed again. if lord walder will be reasonable - he is not reasonable, said catelyn. he is proud, and prickly to a fault. you know that. he wanted to be grandfather to a king. you will not appease him with the offer of two hoary old brigands and the second son of the fattest man in the seven kingdoms. not only have you broken your oath, but you've slighted the honor of the twins by choosing a bride from a lesser house. robb bristled at that. the westerlings are better blood than the freys. they're an ancient line, descended from the first men. the kings of the rock sometimes wed westerlings before the conquest, and there was another jeyne westerling who was queen to king maegor three hundred years ago. all of which will only salt lord walder's wounds. it has always rankled him that older houses look down on the freys as upstarts. this insult is not the first he's borne, to hear him tell it. jon arryn was disinclined to foster his grandsons, and my father refused the offer of one of his daughters for edmure. she inclined her head toward her brother as he rejoined them. your grace, brynden blackflsh said, perhaps we had best continue this in private. yes. robb sounded tired. i would kill for a cup of wine. the audience chamber, i think. as they started up the steps, catelyn asked the question that had been troubling her since she entered the hall. robb, where is grey wind? in the yard, with a haunch of mutton. i told the kennelmaster to see that he was fed. you always kept him with you before. a hall is no place for a wolf. he gets restless, you've seen. growling and snapping. i should never have taken him into battle with me. he's killed too many men to fear them now. jeyne's anxious around him, and he terrifies her mother. and there's the heart of it, catelyn thought. he is part of you, robb. to fear him is to fear you. i am not a wolf, no matter what they call me. robb sounded cross. grey wind killed a man at the crag, another at ashemark, and six or seven at oxcross. if you had seen - i saw bran's wolf tear out a man's throat at winterfell, she said sharply, and loved him for it. that's different. the man at the crag was a knight jeyne had known all her life. you can't blame her for being afraid. grey wind doesn't like her uncle either. he bares his teeth every time ser rolph comes near him. a chill went through her. send ser rolph away. at once. where? back to the crag, so the lannisters can mount his head on a spike? jeyne loves him. he's her uncle, and a fair knight besides. i need more men like rolph spicer, not fewer. i am not going to banish him just because my wolf doesn't seem to like the way he smells. robb. she stopped and held his arm. i told you once to keep theon greyjoy close, and you did not listen. listen now. send this man away. i am not saying you must banish him. find some task that requires a man of courage, some honorable duty, what it is matters not... but do not keep him near you. he frowned. should i have grey wind sniff all my knights? there might be others whose smell he mislikes. any man grey wind mislikes is a man i do not want close to you. these wolves are more than wolves, robb. you must know that. i think perhaps the gods sent them to us. your father's gods, the old gods of the north. five wolf pups, robb, five for five stark children. six, said robb. there was a wolf for jon as well. i found them, remember? i know how many there were and where they came from. i used to think the same as you, that the wolves were our guardians, our protectors, until... until? she prompted. robb's mouth tightened. until they told me that theon had murdered bran and rickon. small good their wolves did them. i am no longer a boy, mother. i'm a king, and i can protect myself. he sighed. i will find some duty for ser rolph, some pretext to send him away. not because of his smell, but to ease your mind. you have suffered enough. relieved, catelyn kissed him lightly on the cheek before the others could come around the turn of the stair, and for a moment he was her boy again, and not her king. lord hoster's private audience chamber was a small room above the great hall, better suited to intimate discussions. robb took the high seat, removed his crown, and set it on the floor beside him as catelyn rang for wine. edmure was filling his uncle's ear with the whole story of the fight at the stone mill. it was only after the servants had come and gone that the blackfish cleared his throat and said, i think we've all heard sufficient of your boasting, nephew. edmure was taken aback. boasting? what do you mean? i mean, said the blackfish, that you owe his grace your thanks for his forbearance. he played out that mummer's farce in the great hall so as not to shame you before your own people. had it been me i would have flayed you for your stupidity rather than praising this folly of the fords. good men died to defend those fords, uncle. edmure sounded outraged. what, is no one to win victories but the young wolf? did i steal some glory meant for you, robb? your grace, robb corrected, icy. you took me for your king, uncle or have you forgotten that as well? the blackfish said, you were commanded to hold riverrun, edmure, no more. i held riverrun, and i bloodied lord tywin's nose. so you did, said robb. but a bloody nose won't win the war, will it? did you ever think to ask yourself why we remained in the west so long after oxcross? you knew i did not have enough men to threaten lannisport or casterly rock. why... there were other castles... gold, cattle... you think we stayed for plunder? robb was incredulous. uncle, i wanted lord tywin to come west. we were all horsed, ser brynden said. the lannister host was mainly foot. we planned to run lord tywin a merry chase up and down the coast, then slip behind him to take up a strong defensive position athwart the gold road, at a place my scouts had found where the ground would have been greatly in our favor. if he had come at us there, he would have paid a grievous price. but if he did not attack, he would have been trapped in the west, a thousand leagues from where he needed to be. all the while we would have lived off his land, instead of him living off ours. lord stannis was about to fall upon king's landing, robb said. he might have rid us of joffrey, the queen, and the imp in one red stroke. then we might have been able to make a peace. edmure looked from uncle to nephew. you never told me. i told you to hold riverrun, said robb. what part of that command did you fail to comprehend? when you stopped lord tywin on the red fork, said the blackfish, you delayed him just long enough for riders out of bitterbridge to reach him with word of what was happening to the east. lord tywin turned his host at once, joined up with matthis rowan and randyll tarly near the headwaters of the blackwater, and made a forced march to tumbler's falls, where he found mace tyrell and two of his sons waiting with a huge host and a fleet of barges. they floated down the river, disembarked half a day's ride from the city, and took stannis in the rear. catelyn remembered king renly's court, as she had seen it at bitterbridge. a thousand golden roses streaming in the wind, queen margaery's shy smile and soft words, her brother the knight of flowers with the bloody linen around his temples. if you had to fall into a woman's arms, my son, why couldn't they have been margaery tyrell's? the wealth and power of highgarden could have made all the difference in the fighting yet to come. and perhaps grey wind would have liked the smell of her as well. edmure looked ill. i never meant... never, robb, you must let me make amends. i will lead the van in the next battle! for amends, brother? or for glory? catelyn wondered. the next battle, robb said. well, that will be soon enough. once joffrey is wed, the lannisters will take the field against me once more, i don't doubt, and this time the tyrells will march beside them. and i may need to fight the freys as well, if black walder has his way... so long as theon greyjoy sits in your father's seat with your brothers' blood on his hands, these other foes must wait, catelyn told her son. your first duty is to defend your own people, win back winterfell, and hang theon in a crow's cage to die slowly. or else put off that crown for good, robb, for men will know that you are no true king at all. from the way robb looked at her, she could tell that it had been a long while since anyone had dared speak to him so bluntly. when they told me winterfell had fallen, i wanted to go north at once, he said, with a hint of defensiveness. i wanted to free bran and rickon, but i thought... i never dreamed that theon could harm them, truly. if i had... it is too late for ifs, and too late for rescues, catelyn said. all that remains is vengeance. the last word we had from the north, ser rodrik had defeated a force of ironmen near torrhen's square, and was assembling a host at castle cerwyn to retake winterfell said robb. by now he may have done it. there has been no news for a long while. and what of the trident, if i turn north? i can't ask the river lords to abandon their own people. no, said catelyn. leave them to guard their own, and win back the north with northmen. how will you get the northmen to the north? her brother edmure asked. the ironmen control the sunset sea. the greyjoys hold moat cailin as well. no army has ever taken moat cailin from the south. even to march against it is madness. we could be trapped on the causeway, with the ironborn before us and angry freys at our backs. we must win back the freys, said robb. with them, we still have some chance of success, however small. without them, i see no hope. i am willing to give lord walder whatever he requires... apologies, honors, lands, gold... there must be something that would soothe his pride... not something, said catelyn. someone. they carried the corpses in upon their shoulders and laid them beneath the dais. a silence fell across the torchlit hall, and in the quiet catelyn could hear grey wind howling half a castle away. he smells the blood, she thought, through stone walls and wooden doors, through night and rain, he still knows the scent of death and ruin. she stood at robb's left hand beside the high seat, and for a moment felt almost as if she were looking down at her own dead, at bran and rickon. these boys had been much older, but death had shrunken them. naked and wet, they seemed such little things, so still it was hard to remember them living. the blond boy had been trying to grow a beard. pale yellow peach fuzz covered his cheeks and jaw above the red ruin the knife had made of his throat. his long golden hair was still wet, as if he had been pulled from a bath. by the look of him, he had died peacefully, perhaps in sleep, but his brown-haired cousin had fought for life. his arms bore slashes where he'd tried to block the blades, and red still trickled slowly from the stab wounds that covered his chest and belly and back like so many tongueless mouths, though the rain had washed him almost clean. robb had donned his crown before coming to the hall, and the bronze shone darkly in the torchlight. shadows hid his eyes as he looked upon the dead. does he see bran and rickon as well? she might have wept, but there were no tears left in her. the dead boys were pale from long imprisonment, and both had been fair; against their smooth white skin, the blood was shockingly red, unbearable to look upon. will they lay sansa down naked beneath the iron throne after they have killed her? will her skin seem as white, her blood as red? from outside came the steady wash of rain and the restless howling of a wolf. her brother edmure stood to robb's right, one hand upon the back of his father's seat, his face still puffy from sleep. they had woken him as they had her, pounding on his door in the black of night to yank him rudely from his dreams. were they good dreams, brother? do you dream of sunlight and laughter and a maiden's kisses? i pray you do. her own dreams were dark and laced with terrors. robb's captains and lords bannermen stood about the hall, some mailed and armed, others in various states of dishevelment and undress. ser raynald and his uncle ser rolph were among them, but robb had seen fit to spare his queen this ugliness. the crag is not far from casterly rock, catelyn recalled. jeyne may well have played with these boys when all of them were children. she looked down again upon the corpses of the squires tion frey and willem lannister, and waited for her son to speak. it seemed a very long time before robb lifted his eyes from the bloody dead. smalljon, he said, tell your father to bring them in. wordless, smalljon umber turned to obey, his steps echoing in the great stone hall. as the greatjon marched his prisoners through the doors, catelyn made note of how some other men stepped back to give them room, as if treason could somehow be passed by a touch, a glance, a cough. the captors and the captives looked much alike; big men, every one, with thick beards and long hair. two of the greatjon' s men were wounded, and three of their prisoners. only the fact that some had spears and others empty scabbards served to set them apart. all were clad in mail hauberks or shirts of sewn rings, with heavy boots and thick cloaks, some of wool and some of fur. the north is hard and cold, and has no mercy, ned had told her when she first came to winterfell a thousand years ago. five, said robb when the prisoners stood before him, wet and silent. is that all of them? there were eight, rumbled the greatjon. we killed two taking them, and a third is dying now. robb studied the faces of the captives. it required eight of you to kill two unarmed squires. edmure tully spoke up. they murdered two of my men as well, to get into the tower. delp and elwood. it was no murder, ser, said lord rickard karstark, no more discomfited by the ropes about his wrists than by the blood that trickled down his face. any man who steps between a father and his vengeance asks for death. his words rang against catelyn's ears, harsh and cruel as the pounding of a war drum. her throat was dry as bone. i did this. these two boys died so my daughters might live. i saw your sons die, that night in the whispering wood, robb told lord karstark. tion frey did not kill torrhen. willem lannister did not slay eddard. how then can you call this vengeance? this was folly, and bloody murder. your sons died honorably on a battlefield, with swords in their hands. they died, said rickard karstark, yielding no inch of ground. the kingslayer cut them down. these two were of his ilk. only blood can pay for blood. the blood of children? robb pointed at the corpses. how old were they? twelve, thirteen? squires. squires die in every battle. die fighting, yes. tion frey and willem lannister gave up their swords in the whispering wood. they were captives, locked in a cell, asleep, unarmed... boys. look at them! lord karstark looked instead at catelyn. tell your mother to look at them, he said. she slew them, as much as i. catelyn put a hand on the back of robb's seat. the hall seemed to spin about her. she felt as though she might retch. my mother had naught to do with this, robb said angrily. this was your work. your murder. your treason. how can it be treason to kill lannisters, when it is not treason to free them? asked karstark harshly. has your grace forgotten that we are at war with casterly rock? in war you kill your enemies. didn't your father teach you that, boy? boy? the greatjon dealt rickard karstark a buffet with a mailed fist that sent the other lord to his knees. leave him! robb's voice rang with command. umber stepped back away from the captive. lord karstark spit out a broken tooth. yes, lord umber, leave me to the king. he means to give me a scolding before he forgives me. that's how he deals with treason, our king in the north. he smiled a wet red smile, or should i call you the king who lost the north, your grace? the greatjon snatched a spear from the man beside him and jerked it to his shoulder. let me spit him, sire. let me open his belly so we can see the color of his guts. the doors of the hall crashed open, and the blackfish entered with water running from his cloak and helm. tully men-at-arms followed him in, while outside lightning cracked across the sky and a hard black rain pounded against the stones of riverrun. ser brynden removed his helm and went to one knee. your grace, was all he said, but the grimness of his tone spoke volumes. i will hear ser brynden privily, in the audience chamber. robb rose to his feet. greatjon, keep lord karstark here till i return, and hang the other seven. the greatjon lowered the spear. even the dead ones? yes. i will not have such fouling my lord uncle's rivers. let them feed the crows. one of the captives dropped to his knees. mercy, sire. i killed no one, i only stood at the door to watch for guards. robb considered that a moment. did you know what lord rickard intended? did you see the knives drawn? did you hear the shouts, the screams, the cries for mercy? aye, i did, but i took no part. i was only the watcher, i swear it... lord umber, said robb, this one was only the watcher. hang him last, so he may watch the others die. mother, uncle, with me, if you please. he turned away as the greatjon's men closed upon the prisoners and drove them from the hall at spearpoint. outside the thunder crashed and boomed, so loud it sounded as if the castle were coming down about their ears. is this the sound of a kingdom falling? catelyn wondered. it was dark within the audience chamber, but at least the sound of the thunder was muffled by another thickness of wall. a servant entered with an oil lamp to light the fire, but robb sent him away and kept the lamp. there were tables and chairs, but only edmure sat, and he rose again when he realized that the others had remained standing. robb took off his crown and placed it on the table before him. the blackfish shut the door. the karstarks are gone. all? was it anger or despair that thickened robb's voice like that? even catelyn was not certain. all the fighting men, ser brynden replied. a few camp followers and serving men were left with their wounded. we questioned as many as we needed, to be certain of the truth. they started leaving at nightfall, stealing off in ones and twos at first, and then in larger groups. the wounded men and servants were told to keep the campfires lit so no one would know they'd gone, but once the rains began it didn't matter. will they re-form, away from riverrun? asked robb. no. they've scattered, hunting. lord karstark has sworn to give the hand of his maiden daughter to any man highborn or low who brings him the head of the kingslayer. gods be good. catelyn felt ill again. near three hundred riders and twice as many mounts, melted away in the night. robb rubbed his temples, where the crown had left its mark in the soft skin above his ears. all the mounted strength of karhold, lost. lost by me. by me, may the gods forgive me. catelyn did not need to be a soldier to grasp the trap robb was in. for the moment he held the riverlands, but his kingdom was surrounded by enemies to every side but east, where lysa sat aloof on her mountaintop. even the trident was scarce secure so long as the lord of the crossing withheld his allegiance. and now to lose the karstarks as well... no word of this must leave riverrun, her brother edmure said. lord tywin would... the lannisters pay their debts, they are always saying that. mother have mercy, when he hears. sansa. catelyn' s nails dug into the soft flesh of her palms, so hard did she close her hand. robb gave edmure a look that chilled. would you make me a liar as well as a murderer, uncle? we need speak no falsehood. only say nothing. bury the boys and hold our tongues till the war's done. willem was son to ser kevan lannister, and lord tywin's nephew. tion was lady genna's, and a frey. we must keep the news from the twins as well, until... until we can bring the murdered dead back to life? said brynden blackfish sharply. the truth escaped with the karstarks, edmure. it is too late for such games. i owe their fathers truth, said robb. and justice. i owe them that as well. he gazed at his crown, the dark gleam of bronze, the circle of iron swords. lord rickard defied me. betrayed me. i have no choice but to condemn him. gods know what the karstark foot with roose bolton will do when they hear i've executed their liege for a traitor. bolton must be warned. lord karstark's heir was at harrenhal as well, ser brynden reminded him. the eldest son, the one the lannisters took captive on the green fork. harrion. his name is harrion. robb laughed bitterly. a king had best know the names of his enemies, don't you think? the blackfish looked at him shrewdly. you know that for a certainty? that this will make young karstark your enemy? what else would he be? i am about to kill his father, he's not like to thank me. he might. there are sons who hate their fathers, and in a stroke you will make him lord of karhold. robb shook his head. even if harrion were that sort, he could never openly forgive his father's killer. his own men would turn on him. these are northmen, uncle. the north remembers. pardon him, then, urged edmure tully. robb stared at him in frank disbelief. under that gaze, edmure's face reddened. spare his life, i mean. i don't like the taste of it any more than you, sire. he slew my men as well. poor delp had only just recovered from the wound ser jaime gave him. karstark must be punished, certainly. keep him in chains, say. a hostage? said catelyn. it might be best... yes, a hostage! her brother seized on her musing as agreement. tell the son that so long as he remains loyal, his father will not be harmed. otherwise... we have no hope of the freys now, not if i offered to marry all lord walder's daughters and carry his litter besides. if we should lose the karstarks as well, what hope is there? what hope... robb let out a breath, pushed his hair back from his eyes, and said, we've had naught from ser rodrik in the north, no response from walder frey to our new offer, only silence from the eyrie. he appealed to his mother. will your sister never answer us? how many times must i write her? i will not believe that none of the birds have reached her. her son wanted comfort, catelyn realized; he wanted to hear that it would be all right. but her king needed truth. the birds have reached her. though she may tell you they did not, if it ever comes to that. expect no help from that quarter, robb. lysa was never brave. when we were girls together, she would run and hide whenever she'd done something wrong. perhaps she thought our lord father would forget to be wroth with her if he could not find her. it is no different now. she ran from king's landing for fear, to the safest place she knows, and she sits on her mountain hoping everyone will forget her. the knights of the vale could make all the difference in this war, said robb, but if she will not fight, so be it. i've asked only that she open the bloody gate for us, and provide ships at gulltown to take us north. the high road would be hard, but not so hard as fighting our way up the neck. if i could land at white harbor i could flank moat cailin and drive the ironmen from the north in half a year. it will not happen, sire, said the blackfish. cat is right. lady lysa is too fearful to admit an army to the vale. any army. the bloody gate will remain closed. the others can take her, then, robb cursed, in a fury of despair. bloody rickard karstark as well. and theon greyjoy, walder frey, tywin lannister, and all the rest of them. gods be good, why would any man ever want to be king? when everyone was shouting king in the north, king in the north, i told myself... swore to myself... that i would be a good king, as honorable as father, strong, just, loyal to my friends and brave when i faced my enemies... now i can't even tell one from the other. how did it all get so confused? lord rickard's fought at my side in half a dozen battles. his sons died for me in the whispering wood. tion frey and willem lannister were my enemies. yet now i have to kill my dead friends' father for their sakes. he looked at them all. will the lannisters thank me for lord rickard's head? will the freys? no, said brynden blackfish, blunt as ever. all the more reason to spare lord rickard's life and keep him hostage, edmure urged. robb reached down with both hands, lifted the heavy bronze-and-iron crown, and set it back atop his head, and suddenly he was a king again. lord rickard dies. but why- said edmure. you said yourself- i know what i said, uncle. it does not change what i must do. the swords in his crown stood stark and black against his brow. in battle i might have slain tion and willem myself, but this was no battle. they were asleep in their beds, naked and unarmed, in a cell where i put them. rickard karstark killed more than a frey and a lannister. he killed my honor. i shall deal with him at dawn. when day broke, grey and chilly, the storm had diminished to a steady, soaking rain, yet even so the godswood was crowded. river lords and northmen, highborn and low, knights and sellswords and stableboys, they stood amongst the trees to see the end of the night's dark dance. edmure had given commands, and a headsman's block had been set up before the heart tree. rain and leaves fell all around them as the greatjon's men led lord rickard karstark through the press, hands still bound. his men already hung from riverrun's high walls, slumping at the end of long ropes as the rain washed down their darkening faces. long lew waited beside the block, but robb took the poleaxe from his hand and ordered him to step aside. this is my work, he said. he dies at my word. he must die by my hand. lord rickard karstark dipped his head stiffly. for that much, i thank you. but for naught else. he had dressed for death in a long black wool surcoat emblazoned with the white sunburst of his house. the blood of the first men flows in my veins as much as yours, boy. you would do well to remember that. i was named for your grandfather. i raised my banners against king aerys for your father, and against king joffrey for you. at oxcross and the whispering wood and in the battle of the camps, i rode beside you, and i stood with lord eddard on the trident. we are kin, stark and karstark. this kinship did not stop you from betraying me, robb said. and it will not save you now. kneel, my lord. lord rickard had spoken truly, catelyn knew. the karstarks traced their descent to karlon stark, a younger son of winterfell who had put down a rebel lord a thousand years ago, and been granted lands for his valor. the castle he built had been named karl's hold, but that soon became karhold, and over the centuries the karhold starks had become karstarks. old gods or new, it makes no matter, lord rickard told her son, no man is so accursed as the kins layer. kneel, traitor, robb said again. or must i have them force your head onto the block? lord karstark knelt. the gods shall judge you, as you have judged me. he laid his head upon the block. rickard karstark, lord of karhold. robb lifted the heavy axe with both hands. here in sight of gods and men, i judge you guilty of murder and high treason. in mine own name i condemn you. with mine own hand i take your life. would you speak a final word? kill me, and be cursed. you are no king of mine. the axe crashed down. heavy and well-honed, it killed at a single blow, but it took three to sever the man's head from his body, and by the time it was done both living and dead were drenched in blood. robb flung the poleaxe down in disgust, and turned wordless to the heart tree. he stood shaking with his hands half-clenched and the rain running down his cheeks. gods forgive him, catelyn prayed in silence. he is only a boy, and he had no other choice. that was the last she saw of her son that day. the rain continued all through the morning, lashing the surface of the rivers and turning the godswood grass into mud and puddles. the blackfish assembled a hundred men and rode out after karstarks, but no one expected he would bring back many. i only pray i do not need to hang them, he said as he departed. when he was gone, catelyn retreated to her father's solar, to sit once more beside lord hoster's bed. it will not be much longer, maester vyman warned her, when he came that afternoon. his last strength is going, though still he tries to fight. he was ever a fighter, she said. a sweet stubborn man. yes, the maester said, but this battle he cannot win. it is time he lay down his sword and shield. time to yield. to yield, she thought, to make a peace. was it her father the maester was speaking of, or her son? at evenfall, jeyne westerling came to see her. the young queen entered the solar timidly. lady catelyn, i do not mean to disturb you... you are most welcome here, your grace. catelyn had been sewing, but she put the needle aside now. please. call me jeyne. i don't feel like a grace. you are one, nonetheless. please, come sit, your grace. jeyne. she sat by the hearth and smoothed her skirt out anxiously. as you wish. how might i serve you, jeyne? it's robb, the girl said. he's so miserable, so... so angry and disconsolate. i don't know what to do. it is a hard thing to take a man's life. i know. i told him, he should use a headsman. when lord tywin sends a man to die, all he does is give the command, it's easier that way, don't you think? yes, said catelyn, but my lord husband taught his sons that killing should never be easy. oh. queen jeyne wet her lips. robb has not eaten all day. i had rollam bring him a nice supper, boar's ribs and stewed onions and ale, but he never touched a bite of it. he spent all morning writing a letter and told me not to disturb him, but when the letter was done he burned it. now he is sitting and looking at maps. i asked him what he was looking for, but he never answered. i don't think he ever heard me. he wouldn't even change out of his clothes. they were damp all day, and bloody. i want to be a good wife to him, i do, but i don't know how to help. to cheer him, or comfort him. i don't know what he needs. please, my lady, you're his mother, tell me what i should do. tell me what i should do. catelyn might have asked the same, if her father had been well enough to ask. but lord hoster was gone, or near enough. her ned as well. bran and rickon too, and mother, and brandon so long ago. only robb remained to her, robb and the fading hope of her daughters. sometimes, catelyn said slowly, the best thing you can do is nothing. when i first came to winterfell, i was hurt whenever ned went to the godswood to sit beneath his heart tree. part of his soul was in that tree, i knew, a part i would never share. yet without that part, i soon realized, he would not have been ned. jeyne, child, you have wed the north, as i did... and in the north, the winters will come. she tried to smile. be patient. be understanding. he loves you and he needs you, and he will come back to you soon enough. this very night, perhaps. be there when he does. that is all i can tell you. the young queen listened raptly. i will, she said when catelyn was done. i'll be there. she got to her feet. i should go back. he might have missed me. i'll see. but if he's still at his maps, i'll be patient. do, said catelyn, but when the girl was at the door, she thought of something else. jeyne, she called after, there's one more thing robb needs from you, though he may not know it yet himself. a king must have an heir. the girl smiled at that. my mother says the same. she makes a posset for me, herbs and milk and ale, to help make me fertile. i drink it every morning. i told robb i'm sure to give him twins. an eddard and a brandon. he liked that, i think. we... we try most every day, my lady. sometimes twice or more. the girl blushed very prettily. i'll be with child soon, i promise. i pray to our mother above, every night. very good. i will add my prayers as well. to the old gods and the new. when the girl had gone, catelyn turned back to her father and smoothed the thin white hair across his brow. an eddard and a brandon, she sighed softly. and perhaps in time a hoster. would you like that? he did not answer, but she had never expected that he would. as the sound of the rain on the roof mingled with her father's breathing, she thought about jeyne. the girl did seem to have a good heart, just as robb had said. and good hips, which might be more important. let the kings of winter have their cold crypt under the earth, catelyn thought. the tullys drew their strength from the river, and it was to the river they returned when their lives had run their course. they laid lord hoster in a slender wooden boat, clad in shining silver armor, plate-and-mail. his cloak was spread beneath him, rippling blue and red. his surcoat was divided blue-and-red as well. a trout, scaled in silver and bronze, crowned the crest of the greathelm they placed beside his head. on his chest they placed a painted wooden sword, his fingers curled about its hilt. mail gauntlets hid his wasted hands, and made him look almost strong again. his massive oak-and-iron shield was set by his left side, his hunting horn to his right. the rest of the boat was filled with driftwood and kindling and scraps of parchment, and stones to make it heavy in the water. his banner flew from the prow, the leaping trout of riverrun. seven were chosen to push the funereal boat to the water, in honor of the seven faces of god. robb was one, lord hoster's liege lord. with him were the lords bracken, blackwood, vance, and mallister, ser marq piper... and lame lothar frey, who had come down from the twins with the answer they had awaited. forty soldiers rode in his escort, commanded by walder rivers, the eldest of lord walder's bastard brood, a stern, grey-haired man with a formidable reputation as a warrior. their arrival, coming within hours of lord hoster's passing, had sent edmure into a rage. walder frey should be flayed and quartered! he'd shouted. he sends a cripple and a bastard to treat with us, tell me there is no insult meant by that. i have no doubt that lord walder chose his envoys with care, she replied. it was a peevish thing to do, a petty sort of revenge, but remember who we are dealing with. the late lord frey, father used to call him. the man is ill-tempered, envious, and above all pride fill. blessedly, her son had shown better sense than her brother. robb had greeted the freys with every courtesy, found barracks space for the escort, and quietly asked ser desmond grell to stand aside so lothar might have the honor of helping to send lord hoster on his last voyage. he has learned a rough wisdom beyond his years, my son. house frey might have abandoned the king in the north, but the lord of the crossing remained the most powerful of riverrun' s bannermen, and lothar was here in his stead. the seven launched lord hoster from the water stair, wading down the steps as the portcullis was winched upward. lothar frey, a soft-bodied portly man, was breathing heavily as they shoved the boat out into the current. jason mallister and tytos blackwood, at the prow, stood chest deep in the river to guide it on its way. catelyn watched from the battlements, waiting and watching as she had waited and watched so many times before. beneath her, the swift wild tumblestone plunged like a spear into the side of the broad red fork, its blue- white current churning the muddy red-brown flow of the greater river. a morning mist hung over the water, as thin as gossamer and the wisps of memory. bran and rickon will be waiting for him, catelyn thought sadly, as once i used to wait. the slim boat drifted out from under the red stone arch of the water gate, picking up speed as it was caught in the headlong rush of the tumblestone and pushed out into the tumult where the waters met. as the boat emerged from beneath the high sheltering walls of the castle, its square sail filled with wind, and catelyn saw sunlight flashing on her father's helm. lord hoster tully's rudder held true, and he sailed serenely down the center of the channel, into the rising sun. now, her uncle urged. beside him, her brother edmure - lord edmure now in truth, and how long would that take to grow used to?- nocked an arrow to his bowstring. his squire held a brand to its point. edmure waited until the flame caught, then lifted the great bow, drew the string to his ear, and let fly. with a deep thrum, the arrow sped upward. catelyn followed its flight with her eyes and heart, until it plunged into the water with a soft hiss, well astern of lord hoster's boat. edmure cursed softly. the wind, he said, pulling a second arrow. again. the brand kissed the oil-soaked rag behind the arrowhead, the flames went licking up, edmure lifted, pulled, and released. high and far the arrow flew. too far. it vanished in the river a dozen yards beyond the boat, its fire winking out in an instant. a flush was creeping up edmure' s neck, red as his beard. once more, he commanded, taking a third arrow from the quiver. he is as tight as his bowstring, catelyn thought. ser brynden must have seen the same thing. let me, my lord, he offered. i can do it, edmure insisted. he let them light the arrow, jerked the bow up, took a deep breath, drew back the arrow. for a long moment he seemed to hesitate while the fire crept up the shaft, crackling. finally he released. the arrow flashed up and up, and finally curved down again, falling, falling... and hissing past the billowing sail. a narrow miss, no more than a handspan, and yet a miss. the others take it! her brother swore. the boat was almost out of range, drifting in and out among the river mists. wordless, edmure thrust the bow at his uncle. swiftly, ser brynden said, he nocked an arrow, held it steady for the brand, drew and released before catelyn was quite sure that the fire had caught... but as the shot rose, she saw the flames trailing through the air, a pale orange pennon. the boat had vanished in the mists. falling, the flaming arrow was swallowed up as well... but only for a heartbeat. then, sudden as hope, they saw the red bloom flower. the sails took fire, and the fog glowed pink and orange. for a moment catelyn saw the outline of the boat clearly, wreathed in leaping flames. watch for me, little cat, she could hear him whisper. catelyn reached out blindly, groping for her brother's hand, but edmure had moved away, to stand alone on the highest point of the battlements. her uncle brynden took her hand instead, twining his strong fingers through hers. together they watched the little fire grow smaller as the burning boat receded in the distance. and then it was gone... drifting downriver still, perhaps, or broken up and sinking. the weight of his armor would carry lord hoster down to rest in the soft mud of the riverbed, in the watery halls where the tullys held eternal court, with schools offish their last attendants. no sooner had the burning boat vanished from their sight than edmure walked off. catelyn would have liked to embrace him, if only for a moment; to sit for an hour or a night or the ton of a moon to speak of the dead and mourn. yet she knew as well as he that this was not the time; he was lord of riverrun now, and his knights were falling in around him, murmuring condolences and promises of fealty, walling him off from something as small as a sister's grief. edmure listened, hearing none of the words. it is no disgrace to miss your shot, her uncle told her quietly. edmure should hear that. the day my own lord father went downriver, hoster missed as well. with his first shaft. catelyn had been too young to remember, but lord hoster had often told the tale. his second found the sail. she sighed. edmure was not as strong as he seemed. their father's death had been a mercy when it came at last, but even so her brother had taken it hard. last night in his cups he had broken down and wept, full of regrets for things undone and words unsaid. he ought never to have ridden off to fight his battle on the fords, he told her tearfully; he should have stayed at their father's bedside. i should have been with him, as you were, he said. did he speak of me at the end? tell me true, cat. did he ask for me? lord hoster's last word had been tansy, but catelyn could not bring herself to tell him that. he whispered your name, she lied, and her brother had nodded gratefully and kissed her hand. if he had not tried to drown his grief and guilt, he might have been able to bend a bow, she thought to herself, sighing, but that was something else she dare not say. the blackfish escorted her down from the battlements to where robb stood among his bannermen, his young queen at his side. when he saw her, her son took her silently in his arms. lord hoster looked as noble as a king, my lady, murmured jeyne. would that i had been given the chance to know him. and i to know him better, added robb. he would have wished that too, said catelyn. there were too many leagues between riverrun and winterfell. and too many mountains and rivers and armies between riverrun and the eyrie, it would seem. lysa had made no reply to her letter. and from king's landing came only silence as well. by now she had hoped that brienne and ser cleos would have reached the city with their captive. it might even be that brienne was on her way back, and the girls with her. ser cleos swore he would make the imp send a raven once the trade was made. he swore it! ravens did not always win through. some bowman could have brought the bird down and roasted him for supper. the letter that would have set her heart at ease might even now be lying by the ashes of some camp fire beside a pile of raven bones. others were waiting to offer robb their consolations, so catelyn stood aside patiently while lord jason mallister, the greatjon, and ser rolph spicer spoke to him each in turn. but when lothar frey approached, she gave his sleeve a tug. robb turned, and waited to hear what lothar would say. your grace. a plump man in his middle thirties, lothar frey had close-set eyes, a pointed beard, and dark hair that fell to his shoulders in ringlets. a leg twisted at birth had earned him the name lame lothar. he had served as his father's steward for the past dozen years. we are loath to intrude upon your grief, but perhaps you might grant us audience tonight? it would be my pleasure, said robb. it was never my wish to sow enmity between us. nor mine to be the cause of it, said queen jeyne. lothar frey smiled. i understand, as does my lord father. he instructed me to say that he was young once, and well remembers what it is like to lose one's heart to beauty. catelyn doubted very much that lord walder had said any such thing, or that he had ever lost his heart to beauty. the lord of the crossing had outlived seven wives and was now wed to his eighth, but he spoke of them only as bedwarmers and brood mares. still, the words were fairly spoken, and she could scarce object to the compliment. nor did robb. your father is most gracious, he said. i shall look forward to our talk. lothar bowed, kissed the queen's hand, and withdrew. by then a dozen others had gathered for a word. robb spoke with them each, giving a thanks here, a smile there, as needed. only when the last of them was done did he turn back to catelyn. there is something we must speak of. will you walk with me? as you command, your grace. that wasn't a command, mother. it will be my pleasure, then. her son had treated her kindly enough since returning to riverrun, yet he seldom sought her out. if he was more comfortable with his young queen, she could scarcely blame him. jeyne makes him smile, and i have nothing to share with him but grief. he seemed to enjoy the company of his bride's brothers, as well; young rollam his squire and ser raynald his standard-bearer. they are standing in the boots of those he's lost, catelyn realized when she watched them together. rollam has taken bran's place, and raynald is part theon and part jon snow only with the westerlings did she see robb smile, or hear him laugh like the boy he was. to the others he was always the king in the north, head bowed beneath the weight of the crown even when his brows were bare. robb kissed his wife gently, promised to see her in their chambers, and went off with his lady mother. his steps led them toward the godswood. lothar seemed amiable, that's a hopeful sign. we need the freys. that does not mean we shall have them. he nodded, and there was glumness to his face and a slope to his shoulders that made her heart go out to him. the crown is crushing him, she thought. he wants so much to be a good king, to be brave and honorable and clever, but the weight is too much for a boy to bear. robb was doing all he could, yet still the blows kept falling, one after the other, relentless. when they brought him word of the battle at duskendale, where lord randyll tarly had shattered robert glover and ser helman tallhart, he might have been expected to rage. instead he'd stared in dumb disbelief and said, duskendale, on the narrow sea? why would they go to duskendale? he'd shook his head, bewildered. a third of my foot, lost for duskendale? the ironmen have my castle and now the lannisters hold my brother, galbart glover said, in a voice thick with despair. robert glover had survived the battle, but had been captured near the kingsroad not long after. not for long, her son promised. i will offer them martyn lannister in exchange. lord tywin will have to accept, for his brother's sake. martyn was ser kevan's son, a twin to the willem that lord karstark had butchered. those murders still haunted her son, catelyn knew. he had tripled the guard around martyn, but still feared for his safety. i should have traded the kingslayer for sansa when you first urged it, robb said as they walked the gallery. if i'd offered to wed her to the knight of flowers, the tyrells might be ours instead of joffrey's. i should have thought of that. your mind was on your battles, and rightly so. even a king cannot think of everything. battles, muttered robb as he led her out beneath the trees. i have won every battle, yet somehow i'm losing the war. he looked up, as if the answer might be written on the sky. the ironmen hold winterfell, and moat cailin too. father's dead, and bran and rickon, maybe arya. and now your father too. she could not let him despair. she knew the taste of that draught too well herself. my father has been dying for a long time. you could not have changed that. you have made mistakes, robb, but what king has not? ned would have been proud of you. mother, there is something you must know. catelyn' s heart skipped a beat. this is something he hates. something he dreads to tell me. all she could think of was brienne and her mission. is it the kingslayer? no. it's sansa. she's dead, catelyn thought at once. brienne failed, jaime is dead, and cersei has killed my sweet girl in retribution. for a moment she could barely speak. is... is she gone, robb? gone? he looked startled. dead? oh, mother, no, not that, they haven't harmed her, not that way, only... a bird came last night, but i couldn't bring myself to tell you, not until your father was sent to his rest. robb took her hand. they married her to tyrion lannister. catelyn' s fingers clutched at his. the imp. yes. he swore to trade her for his brother, she said numbly. sansa and arya both. we would have them back if we returned his precious jaime, he swore it before the whole court. how could he marry her, after saying that in sight of gods and men? he's the kingslayer's brother. oathbreaking runs in their blood. robb's fingers brushed the pommel of his sword. if i could id take his ugly head off. sansa would be a widow then, and free. there's no other way that i can see. they made her speak the vows before a septon and don a crimson cloak. catelyn remembered the twisted little man she had seized at the crossroads inn and carried all the way to the eyrie. i should have let lysa push him out her moon door. my poor sweet sansa... why would anyone do this to her? for winterfell, robb said at once. with bran and rickon dead, sansa is my heir. if anything should happen to me... she clutched tight at his hand. nothing will happen to you. nothing. i could not stand it. they took ned, and your sweet brothers. sansa is married, arya is lost, my father's dead... if anything befell you, i would go mad, robb. you are all i have left. you are all the north has left. i am not dead yet, mother. suddenly catelyn was full of dread. wars need not be fought until the last drop of blood. even she could hear the desperation in her voice. you would not be the first king to bend the knee, nor even the first stark. his mouth tightened. no. never. there is no shame in it. balon greyjoy bent the knee to robert when his rebellion failed. torrhen stark bent the knee to aegon the conqueror rather than see his army face the fires. did aegon kill king torrhen's father? he pulled his hand from hers. never, i said. he is playing the boy now, not the king. the lannisters do not need the north. they will require homage and hostages, no more... and the imp will keep sansa no matter what we do, so they have their hostage. the ironmen will prove a more implacable enemy, i promise you. to have any hope of holding the north, the greyjoys must leave no single sprig of house stark alive to dispute their right. theon's murdered bran and rickon, so now all they need do is kill you... and jeyne, yes. do you think lord balon can afford to let her live to bear you heirs? robb's face was cold. is that why you freed the kingslayer? to make a peace with the lannisters? i freed jaime for sansa's sake... and arya's, if she still lives. you know that. but if i nurtured some hope of buying peace as well, was that so ill? yes, he said. the lannisters killed my father. do you think i have forgotten that? i don't know. have you? catelyn had never struck her children in anger, but she almost struck robb then. it was an effort to remind herself how frightened and alone he must feel. you are king in the north, the choice is yours. i only ask that you think on what i've said. the singers make much of kings who die valiantly in battle, but your life is worth more than a song. to me at least, who gave it to you. she lowered her head. do i have your leave to go? yes. he turned away and drew his sword. what he meant to do with it, she could not say. there was no enemy there, no one to fight. only her and him, amongst tall trees and fallen leaves. there are fights no sword can win, catelyn wanted to tell him, but she feared the king was deaf to such words. hours later, she was sewing in her bedchamber when young rollam westerling came running with the summons to supper. good, catelyn thought, relieved. she had not been certain that her son would want her there, after their quarrel. a dutiful squire, she said to rollam gravely. bran would have been the same. if robb seemed cool at table and edmure surly, lame lothar made up for them both. he was the model of courtesy, reminiscing warmly about lord hoster, offering catelyn gentle condolences on the loss of bran and rickon, praising edmure for the victory at stone mill, and thanking robb for the swift sure justice he had meted out to rickard karstark. lothar's bastard brother walder rivers was another matter; a harsh sour man with old lord walder's suspicious face, he spoke but seldom and devoted most of his attention to the meat and mead that was set before him. when all the empty words were said, the queen and the other westerlings excused themselves, the remains of the meal were cleared away, and lothar frey cleared his throat. before we turn to the business that brings us here, there is another matter, he said solemnly. a grave matter, i fear. i had hoped it would not fall to me to bring you these tidings, but it seems i must. my lord father has had a letter from his grandsons. catelyn had been so lost in grief for her own that she had almost forgotten the two freys she had agreed to foster. no more, she thought. mother have mercy, how many more blows can we bear? somehow she knew the next words she heard would plunge yet another blade into her heart. the grandsons at winterfell? she made herself ask. my wards? walder and walder, yes. but they are presently at the dreadfort, my lady. i grieve to tell you this, but there has been a battle. winterfell is burned. burned? robb's voice was incredulous. your northern lords tried to retake it from the ironmen. when theon greyjoy saw that his prize was lost, he put the castle to the torch. we have heard naught of any battle, said ser brynden. my nephews are young, i grant you, but they were there. big walder wrote the letter, though his cousin signed as well. it was a bloody bit of business, by their account. your castellan was slain. ser rodrik, was that his name? ser rodrik cassel, said catelyn numbly. that dear brave loyal old soul. she could almost see him, tugging on his fierce white whiskers. what of our other people? the ironmen put many of them to the sword, i fear. wordless with rage, robb slammed a fist down on the table and turned his face away, so the freys would not see his tears. but his mother saw them. the world grows a little darker every day. catelyn's thoughts went to ser rodrik's little daughter beth, to tireless maester luwin and cheerful septon chayle, mikken at the forge, farlen and palla in the kennels, old nan and simple hodor. her heart was sick. please, not all. no, said lame lothar. the women and children hid, my nephews walder and walder among them. with winterfell in ruins, the survivors were carried back to the dreadfort by this son of lord bolton's.- bolton's son? robb's voice was strained. walder rivers spoke up. a bastard son, i believe. not ramsay snow? does lord roose have another bastard? robb scowled. this ramsay was a monster and a murderer, and he died a coward. or so i was told. i cannot speak to that. there is much confusion in any war. many false reports. all i can tell you is that my nephews claim it was this bastard son of bolton's who saved the women of winterfell, and the little ones. they are safe at the dreadfort now, all those who remain. theon, robb said suddenly. what happened to theon greyjoy? was he slain? lame lothar spread his hands. that i cannot say, your grace. walder and walder made no mention of his fate. perhaps lord bolton might know, if he has had word from this son of his. ser brynden said, we will be certain to ask him. you are all distraught, i see. i am sorry to have brought you such fresh grief. perhaps we should adjourn until the morrow. our business can wait until you have composed yourselves... no, said robb, i want the matter settled. her brother edmure nodded. me as well. do you have an answer to our offer, my lord? i do. lothar smiled. my lord father bids me tell your grace that he will agree to this new marriage alliance between our houses and renew his fealty to the king in the north, upon the condition that the king's grace apologize for the insult done to house frey, in his royal person, face to face. an apology was a small enough price to pay, but catelyn misliked this petty condition of lord walder's at once. i am pleased, robb said cautiously. it was never my wish to cause this rift between us, lothar. the freys have fought valiantly for my cause. i would have them at my side once more. you are too kind, your grace. as you accept these terms, i am then instructed to offer lord tully the hand of my sister, the lady roslin, a maid of sixteen years. roslin is my lord father's youngest daughter by lady bethany of house rosby, his sixth wife. she has a gentle nature and a gift for music. edmure shifted in his seat. might not it be better if i first met - you'll meet when you're wed, said walder rivers curtly. unless lord tully feels a need to count her teeth first? edmure kept his temper. i will take your word so far as her teeth are concerned, but it would be pleasant if i might gaze upon her face before i espoused her. you must accept her now, my lord, said walder rivers. else my father's offer is withdrawn. lame lothar spread his hands. my brother has a soldier's bluntness, but what he says is true. it is my lord father's wish that this marriage take place at once. at once? edmure sounded so unhappy that catelyn had the unworthy thought that perhaps he had been entertaining notions of breaking the betrothal after the fighting was done. has lord walder forgotten that we are fighting a war? brynden blackfish asked sharply. scarcely, said lothar. that is why he insists that the marriage take place now, ser. men die in war, even men who are young and strong. what would become of our alliance should lord edmure fall before he took roslin to bride? and there is my father's age to consider as well. he is past ninety and not like to see the end of this struggle. it would put his noble heart at peace if he could see his dear roslin safely wed before the gods take him, so he might die with the knowledge that the girl had a strong husband to cherish and protect her. we all want lord walder to die happy. catelyn was growing less and less comfortable with this arrangement. my brother has just lost his own father. he needs time to mourn. roslin is a cheerful girl, said lothar. she may be the very thing lord edmure needs to help him through his grief. and my grandfather has come to mislike lengthy betrothals, the bastard walder rivers added. i cannot imagine why. robb gave him a chilly look. i take your meaning, rivers. pray excuse us. as your grace commands. lame lothar rose, and his bastard brother helped him hobble from the room. edmure was seething. they're as much as saying that my promise is worthless. why should i let that old weasel choose my bride? lord walder has other daughters besides this roslin. granddaughters as well. i should be offered the same choice you were. i'm his liege lord, he should be overjoyed that i'm willing to wed any of them. he is a proud man, and we've wounded him, said catelyn. the others take his pride! i will not be shamed in my own hall. my answer is no. robb gave him a weary look. i will not command you. not in this. but if you refuse, lord frey will take it for another slight, and any hope of putting this arights will be gone. you cannot know that, edmure insisted. frey has wanted me for one of his daughters since the day i was born. he will not let a chance like this slip between those grasping fingers of his. when lothar brings him our answer, he'll come wheedling back and accept a betrothal... and to a daughter of my choosing. perhaps, in time, said brynden blackfish. but can we wait, while lothar rides back and forth with offers and counters? robb's hands curled into fists. i must get back to the north. my brothers dead, winterfell burned, my smallfolk put to the sword... the gods only know what this bastard of bolton's is about, or whether theon is still alive and on the loose. i can't sit here waiting for a wedding that might or might not happen. it must happen, said catelyn, though not gladly. i have no more wish to suffer walder frey's insults and complaints than you do, brother, but i see little choice here. without this wedding, robb's cause is lost. edmure, we must accept. we must accept? he echoed peevishly. i don't see you offering to become the ninth lady frey, cat. the eighth lady frey is still alive and well, so far as i know, she replied. thankfully. otherwise it might well have come to that, knowing lord walder. the blackfish said, i am the last man in the seven kingdoms to tell anyone who they must wed, nephew. nonetheless, you did say something of making amends for your battle of the fords. i had in mind a different sort of amends. single combat with the kings layer. seven years of penace as a begging brother. swimming the sunset sea with my legs tied. when he saw that no one was smiling, edmure threw up his hands. the others take you all! very well, i'll wed the wench. as amends. rob bid farewell to his young queen thrice. once in the godswood before the heart tree, in sight of gods and men. the second time beneath the portcullis, where jeyne sent him forth with a long embrace and a longer kiss. and finally an hour beyond the tumblestone, when the girl came galloping up on a well-lathered horse to plead with her young king to take her along. robb was touched by that, catelyn saw, but abashed as well. the day was damp and grey, a drizzle had begun to fall, and the last thing he wanted was to call a halt to his march so he could stand in the wet and console a tearful young wife in front of half his army. he speaks her gently, she thought as she watched them together, but there is anger underneath. all the time the king and queen were talking, grey wind prowled around them, stopping only to shake the water from his coat and bare his teeth at the rain. when at last robb gave jeyne one final kiss, dispatched a dozen men to take her back to riverrun, and mounted his horse once more, the direwo if raced off ahead as swift as an arrow loosed from a longbow. queen jeyne has a loving heart, i see, said lame lothar frey to catelyn. not unlike my own sisters. why, i would wager a guess that even now roslin is dancing round the twins chanting 'lady tully, lady tully, lady roslin tully.' by the morrow she'll be holding swatches of riverrun red-and-blue to her cheek to picture how she'll look in her bride's cloak. he turned in the saddle to smile at edmure. but you are strangely quiet, lord tully. how do you feel, i wonder? much as i did at the stone mill just before the warhorns sounded, edmure said, only half in jest. lothar gave a good-natured laugh. let us pray your marriage ends as happily, my lord. and may the gods protect us if it does not. catelyn pressed her heels into her horse, leaving her brother and lame lothar to each other's company. it had been her who had insisted that jeyne remain at riverrun, when robb would sooner have kept her by his side. lord walder might well construe the queen's absence from the wedding as another slight, yet her presence would have been a different sort of insult, salt in the old man's wound. walder frey has a sharp tongue and a long memory, she had warned her son. i do not doubt that you are strong enough to suffer an old man's rebukes as the price of his allegiance, but you have too much of your father in you to sit there while he insults jeyne to her face. robb could not deny the sense of that. yet all the same, he resents me for it, catelyn thought wearily. he misses jeyne already, and some part of him blames me for her absence, though he knows it was good counsel. of the six westerlings who had come with her son from the crag, only one remained by his side; ser raynald, jeyne's brother, the royal banner-bearer. robb had dispatched jeyne's uncle rolph spicer to deliver young martyn lannister to the golden tooth the very day he received lord tywin's assent to the exchange of captives. it was deftly done. her son was relieved of his fear for martyn's safety, galbart glover was relieved to hear that his brother robett had been put on a ship at duskendale, ser rolph had important and honorable employment... and grey wind was at the king's side once more. where he belongs. lady westerling had remained at riverrun with her children; jeyne, her little sister eleyna, and young rollam, robb's squire, who complained bitterly about being left. yet that was wise as well. olyvar frey had squired for robb previously, and would doubtless be present for his sister's wedding; to parade his replacement before him would be as unwise as it was unkind. as for ser raynald, he was a cheerful young knight who swore that no insult of walder frey's could possibly provoke him. and let us pray that insults are all we need to contend with. catelyn had her fears on that score, though. her lord father had never trusted walder frey after the trident, and she was ever mindful of that. queen jeyne would be safest behind the high, strong walls of riverrun, with the blackfish to protect her. robb had even created him a new title, warden of the southern marches. ser brynden would hold the trident if any man could. all the same, catelyn would miss her uncle's craggy face, and robb would miss his counsel. ser brynden had played a part in every victory her son had won. galbart glover had taken command of the scouts and outriders in his place; a good man, loyal and steady, but without the blackfish's brilliance. behind glover's screen of scouts, robb's line of march stretched several miles. the greatjon led the van. catelyn traveled in the main column, surrounded by plodding warhorses with steelclad men on their backs. next came the baggage train, a procession of wayns laden with food, fodder, camp supplies, wedding gifts, and the wounded too weak to walk, under the watchful eye of ser wendel manderly and his white harbor knights. herds of sheep and goats and scrawny cattle trailed behind, and then a little tail of footsore camp followers. even farther back was robin flint and the rearguard. there was no enemy in back of them for hundreds of leagues, but robb would take no chances. thirty- five hundred they were, thirty-five hundred who had been blooded in the whispering wood, who had reddened their swords at the battle of the camps, at oxcross, ashemark, and the crag, and all through the gold-rich hills of the lannister west. aside from her brother edmure's modest retinue of friends, the lords of the trident had remained to hold the riverlands while the king retook the north. ahead awaited edmure's bride and robb's next battle... and for me, two dead sons, an empty bed, and a castle full of ghosts. it was a cheerless prospect. brienne, where are you? bring my girls back to me, brienne. bring them back safe. the drizzle that had sent them off turned into a soft steady rain by midday, and continued well past nightfall. the next day the northmen never saw the sun at all, but rode beneath leaden skies with their hoods pulled up to keep the water from their eyes. it was a heavy rain, turning roads to mud and fields to quagmires, swelling the rivers and stripping the trees of their leaves. the constant patter made idle chatter more bother than it was worth, so men spoke only when they had something to say, and that was seldom enough. we are stronger than we seem, my lady, lady maege mormont said as they rode. catelyn had grown fond of lady maege and her eldest daughter, dacey; they were more understanding than most in the matter of jaime lannister, she had found. the daughter was tall and lean, the mother short and stout, but they dressed alike in mail and leather, with the black bear of house mormont on shield and surcoat. by catelyn's lights, that was queer garb for a lady, yet dacey and lady maege seemed more comfortable, both as warriors and as women, than ever the girl from tarth had been. i have fought beside the young wolf in every battle, dacey mormont said cheerfully. he has not lost one yet. no, but he has lost everything else, catelyn thought, but it would not do to say it aloud. the northmen did not lack for courage, but they were far from home, with little enough to sustain them but for their faith in their young king. that faith must be protected, at all costs. i must be stronger, she told herself. i must be strong for robb. if i despair, my grief will consume me. everything would turn on this marriage. if edmure and roslin were happy in one another, if the late lord frey could be appeased and his power once more wedded to robb's... even then, what chance will we have, caught between lannister and greyjoy? it was a question catelyn dared not dwell on, though robb dwelt on little else. she saw how he studied his maps whenever they made camp, searching for some plan that might win back the north. her brother edmure had other cares. you don't suppose all lord walder's daughters look like him, do you? he wondered, as he sat in his tall striped pavilion with catelyn and his friends. with so many different mothers, a few of the maids are bound to turn up comely, said ser marq piper, but why should the old wretch give you a pretty one? no reason at all, said edmure in a glum tone. it was more than catelyn could stand. cersei lannister is comely, she said sharply. you'd be wiser to pray that roslin is strong and healthy, with a good head and a loyal heart. and with that she left them. edmure did not take that well. the next day he avoided her entirely on the march, preferring the company of marq piper, lymond goodbrook, patrek mallister, and the young vances. they do not scold him, except in jest, catelyn told herself when they raced by her that afternoon with nary a word. i have always been too hard with edmure, and now grief sharpens my every word. she regretted her rebuke. there was rain enough falling from the sky without her making more. and was it really such a terrible thing, to want a pretty wife? she remembered her own childish disappointment, the first time she had laid eyes on eddard stark. she had pictured him as a younger version of his brother brandon, but that was wrong. ned was shorter and plainer of face, and so somber. he spoke courteously enough, but beneath the words she sensed a coolness that was all at odds with brandon, whose mirths had been as wild as his rages. even when he took her maidenhood, their love had more of duty to it than of passion. we made robb that night, though; we made a king together. and after the war, at winterfell, i had love enough for any woman, once i found the good sweet heart beneath ned's solemn face. there is no reason edmure should not find the same, with his roslin. as the gods would have it, their route took them through the whispering wood where robb had won his first great victory. they followed the course of the twisting stream on the floor of that pinched narrow valley, much as jaime lannister' s men had done that fateful night. it was warmer then, catelyn remembered, the trees were still green, and the stream did not overflow its banks. fallen leaves choked the flow now and lay in sodden snarls among the rocks and roots, and the trees that had once hidden robb's army had exchanged their green raiment for leaves of dull gold spotted with brown, and a red that reminded her of rust and dry blood. only the spruce and the soldier pines still showed green, thrusting up at the belly of the clouds like tall dark spears. more than the trees have died since then, she reflected. on the night of the whispering wood, ned was still alive in his cell beneath aegon's high hill, bran and rickon were safe behind the walls of winterfell. and theon greyjoy fought at robb's side, and boasted of how he had almost crossed swords with the kingslayer. would that he had. if theon had died in place of lord karstark's sons, how much ill would have been undone? as they passed through the battleground, catelyn glimpsed signs of the carnage that had been; an overturned helm filling with rain, a splintered lance, the bones of a horse. stone cairns had been raised over some of the men who had fallen here, but scavengers had already been at them. amidst the tumbles of rock, she spied brightly colored cloth and bits of shiny metal. once she saw a face peering out at her, the shape of the skull beginning to emerge from beneath the melting brown flesh. it made her wonder where ned had come to rest. the silent sisters had taken his bones north, escorted by hallis mo lien and a small honor guard. had ned ever reached winterfell, to be interred beside his brother brandon in the dark crypts beneath the castle? or did the door slam shut at moat cailin before hal and the sisters could pass? thirty- five hundred riders wound their way along the valley floor through the heart of the whispering wood, but catelyn stark had seldom felt lonelier. every league she crossed took her farther from riverrun, and she found herself wondering whether she would ever see the castle again. or was it lost to her forever, like so much else? five days later, their scouts rode back to warn them that the rising waters had washed out the wooden bridge at fairmarket. galbart glover and two of his bolder men had tried swimming their mounts across the turbulent blue fork at ramsford. two of the horses had been swept under and drowned, and one of the riders; glover himself managed to cling to a rock until they could pull him in. the river hasn't run this high since spring edmure said.'and if this rain keeps falling, it will go higher yet. there's a bridge further upstream, near oldstones, remembered catelyn, who had often crossed these lands with her father. it's older and smaller, but if it still stands - it's gone, my lady, galbart glover said. washed away even before the one at fairmarket. robb looked to catelyn. is there another bridge? no. and the fords will be impassable. she tried to remember. if we cannot cross the blue fork, we'll have to go around it, through sevenstreams and hag's mire. bogs and bad roads, or none at all, warned edmure. the going will be slow, but we'll get there, i suppose. lord walder will wait, i'm sure, said robb. lothar sent him a bird from riverrun, he knows we are coming. yes, but the man is prickly, and suspicious by nature, said catelyn. he may take this delay as a deliberate insult. very well, i'll beg his pardon for our tardiness as well. a sorry king i'll be, apologizing with every second breath. robb made a wry face. i hope bolton got across the trident before the rains began. the kingsroad runs straight north, he'll have an easy march. even afoot, he should reach the twins before us. and when you've joined his men to yours and seen my brother married, what then? catelyn asked him. north. robb scratched grey wind behind an ear. by the causeway? against moat cailin? he gave her an enigmatic smile. that's one way to go, he said, and she knew from his tone that he would say no more. a wise king keeps his own counsel, she reminded herself. they reached oldstones after eight more days of steady rain, and made their camp upon the hill overlooking the blue fork, within a ruined stronghold of the ancient river kings. its foundations remained amongst the weeds to show where the walls and keeps had stood, but the local smallfolk had long ago made off with most of the stones to raise their barns and septs and holdfasts. yet in the center of what once would have been the castle's yard, a great carved sepulcher still rested, half hidden in waist-high brown grass amongst a stand of ash. the lid of the sepulcher had been carved into a likeness of the man whose bones lay beneath, but the rain and the wind had done their work. the king had worn a beard, they could see, but otherwise his face was smooth and featureless, with only vague suggestions of a mouth, a nose, eyes, and the crown about the temples. his hands folded over the shaft of a stone warhammer that lay upon his chest. once the warhammer would have been carved with runes that told its name and history, but all that the centuries had worn away. the stone itself was cracked and crumbling at the comers, discolored here and there by spreading white splotches of lichen, while wild roses crept up over the king's feet almost to his chest. it was there that catelyn found robb, standing somber in the gathering dusk with only grey wind beside him. the rain had stopped for once, and he was bareheaded. does this castle have a name? he asked quietly, when she came up to him. oldstones, all the smallfolk called it when i was a girl, but no doubt it had some other name when it was still a hall of kings. she had camped here once with her father, on their way to seagard. petyr was with us too... there's a song, he remembered.'jenny of oldstones, with the flowers in her hair.' we're all just songs in the end. if we are lucky. she had played at being jenny that day, had even wound flowers in her hair. and petyr had pretended to be her prince of dragonflies. catelyn could not have been more than twelve, petyr just a boy. robb studied the sepulcher. whose grave is this? here lies tristifer, the fourth of his name, king of the rivers and the hills. her father had told her his story once. he ruled from the trident to the neck, thousands of years before jenny and her prince, in the days when the kingdoms of the first men were falling one after the other before the onslaught of the andals. the hammer of justice, they called him. he fought a hundred battles and won nine-and-ninety, or so the singers say, and when he raised this castle it was the strongest in westeros. she put a hand on her son's shoulder. he died in his hundredth battle, when seven andal kings joined forces against him. the fifth tristifer was not his equal, and soon the kingdom was lost, and then the castle, and last of all the line. with tristifer the fifth died house mudd, that had ruled the river lands for a thousand years before the andals came. his heir failed him. robb ran a hand over the rough weathered stone. i had hoped to leave jeyne with child... we tried often enough, but i'm not certain... it does not always happen the first time. though it did with you. nor even the hundredth. you are very young. young, and a king, he said. a king must have an heir. if i should die in my next battle, the kingdom must not die with me. by law sansa is next in line of succession, so winterfell and the north would pass to her. his mouth tightened. to her, and her lord husband. tyrion lannister. i cannot allow that. i will not allow that. that dwarf must never have the north. no, catelyn agreed. you must name another heir, until such time as jeyne gives you a son. she considered a moment. your father's father had no siblings, but his father had a sister who married a younger son of lord raymar royce, of the junior branch. they had three daughters, all of whom wed vale lordlings. a waynwood and a corbray, for certain. the youngest... it might have been a templeton, but... mother. there was a sharpness in robb's tone. you forget. my father had four sons. she had not forgotten; she had not wanted to look at it, yet there it was. a snow is not a stark. jon's more a stark than some lordlings from the vale who have never so much as set eyes on winterfell. if jon is a brother of the night's watch, sworn to take no wife and hold no lands. those who take the black serve for life. so do the knights of the kingsguard. that did not stop the lannisters from stripping the white cloaks from ser barristan selmy and ser boros blount when they had no more use for them. if i send the watch a hundred men in jon's place, i'll wager they find some way to release him from his vows. he is set on this. catelyn knew how stubborn her son could be. a bastard cannot inherit. not unless he's legitimized by a royal decree, said robb. there is more precedent for that than for releasing a sworn brother from his oath. precedent, she said bitterly. yes, aegon the fourth legitimized all his bastards on his deathbed. and how much pain, grief, war, and murder grew from that? i know you trust jon. but can you trust his sons? or their sons? the blackfyre pretenders troubled the targaryens for five generations, until barristan the bold slew the last of them on the stepstones. if you make jon legitimate, there is no way to turn him bastard again. should he wed and breed, any sons you may have by jeyne will never be safe. jon would never harm a son of mine. no more than theon greyjoy would harm bran or rickon? grey wind leapt up atop king tristifer's crypt, his teeth bared. robb's own face was cold. that is as cruel as it is unfair. jon is no theon. so you pray. have you considered your sisters? what of their rights? i agree that the north must not be permitted to pass to the imp, but what of arya? by law, she comes after sansa... your own sister, trueborn... ... and dead. no one has seen or heard of arya since they cut father's head off. why do you lie to yourself? arya's gone, the same as bran and rickon, and they'll kill sansa too once the dwarf gets a child from her. jon is the only brother that remains to me. should i die without issue, i want him to succeed me as king in the north. i had hoped you would support my choice. i cannot, she said. in all else, robb. in everything. but not in this... this folly. do not ask it. i don't have to. i'm the king. robb turned and walked off, grey wind bounding down from the tomb and loping after him. what have i done? catelyn thought wearily, as she stood alone by tristifer's stone sepulcher. first i anger edmure, and now robb, but all i have done is speak the truth. are men so fragile they cannot bear to hear it? she might have wept then, had not the sky begun to do it for her. it was all she could do to walk back to her tent, and sit there in the silence. in the days that followed, robb was everywhere and anywhere; riding at the head of the van with the greatjon, scouting with grey wind, racing back to robin flint and the rearguard. men said proudly that the young wolf was the first to rise each dawn and the last to sleep at night, but catelyn wondered whether he was sleeping at all. he grows as lean and hungry as his direwolf my lady, maege mormont said to her one morning as they rode through a steady rain, you seem so somber. is aught amiss? my lord husband is dead, as is my father. two of my sons have been murdered, my daughter has been given to a faithless dwarf to bear his vile children, my other daughter is vanished and likely dead, and my last son and my only brother are both angry with me. what could possibly be amiss? that was more truth than lady maege would wish to hear, however. this is an evil rain, she said instead. we have suffered much, and there is more peril and more grief ahead. we need to face it boldly, with horns blowing and banners flying bravely. but this rain beats us down. the banners hang limp and sodden, and the men huddle under their cloaks and scarcely speak to one another. only an evil rain would chill our hearts when most we need them to burn hot. dacey mormont looked up at the sky. i would sooner have water raining down on me than arrows. catelyn smiled despite herself. you are braver than i am, i fear. are all your bear island women such warriors? she-bears, aye, said lady maege. we have needed to be. in olden days the ironmen would come raiding in their longboats, or wildlings from the frozen shore. the men would be off fishing, like as not. the wives they left behind had to defend themselves and their children, or else be carried off. there's a carving on our gate, said dacey. a woman in a bearskin, with a child in one arm suckling at her breast. in the other hand she holds a battleaxe. she's no proper lady, that one, but i always loved her. my nephew jorah brought home a proper lady once, said lady maege. he won her in a tourney. how she hated that carving. aye, and all the rest, said dacey. she had hair like spun gold, that lynesse. skin like cream. but her soft hands were never made for axes. nor her teats for giving suck, her mother said bluntly. catelyn knew of whom they spoke; jorah mormont had brought his second wife to winterfell for feasts, and once they had guested for a fortnight. she remembered how young the lady lynesse had been, how fair, and how unhappy. one night, after several cups of wine, she had confessed to catelyn that the north was no place for a hightower of oldtown. there was a tully of riverrun who felt the same once, she had answered gently, trying to console, but in time she found much here she could love. all lost now, she reflected. winterfell and ned, bran and rickon, sansa, arya, all gone. only robb remains. had there been too much of lynesse hightower in her after all, and too little of the starks? would that i had known how to wield an axe, perhaps i might have been able to protect them better. day followed day, and still the rain kept falling. all the way up the blue fork they rode, past sevenstreams where the river unraveled into a confusion of rills and brooks, then through hag's mire, where glistening green pools waited to swallow the unwary and the soft ground sucked at the hooves of their horses like a hungry babe at its mother's breast. the going was worse than slow. half the wayns had to be abandoned to the muck, their loads distributed amongst mules and draft horses. lord jason mallister caught up with them amidst the bogs of hag's mire. there was more than an hour of daylight remaining when he rode up with his column, but robb called a halt at once, and ser raynald westerling came to escort catelyn to the king's tent. she found her son seated beside a brazier, a map across his lap. grey wind slept at his feet. the greatjon was with him, along with galbart glover, maege mormont, edmure, and a man that catelyn did not know, a fleshy balding man with a cringing look to him. no lordling, this one, she knew the moment she laid eyes on the stranger. not even a warrior. jason mallister rose to offer catelyn his seat. his hair had almost as much white in it as brown, but the lord of seagard was still a handsome man; tall and lean, with a chiseled clean-shaven face, high cheekbones, and fierce blue-grey eyes. lady stark, it is ever a pleasure. i bring good tidings, i hope. we are in sore need of some, my lord. she sat, listening to the rain patter down noisily against the canvas overhead. robb waited for ser raynald to close the tent flap. the gods have heard our prayers, my lords. lord jason has brought us the captain of the myraham, a merchanter out of oldtown. captain, tell them what you told me. aye, your grace. he licked his thick lips nervously. my last port of call afore seagard, that was lordsport on pyke. the ironmen kept me there more'n half a year, they did. king balon's command. only, well, the long and the short of it is, he's dead. balon greyjoy? catelyn's heart skipped a beat. you are telling us that balon greyjoy is dead? the shabby little captain nodded. you know how pyke's built on a headland, and part on rocks and islands off the shore, with bridges between? the way i heard it in lordsport, there was a blow coming in from the west, rain and thunder, and old king balon was crossing one of them bridges when the wind got hold of it and just tore the thing to pieces. he washed up two days later, all bloated and broken. crabs ate his eyes, i hear. the greatjon laughed. king crabs, i hope, to sup upon such royal jelly, eh? the captain bobbed his head. aye, but that's not all of it, no! he leaned forward. the brother's back. victarion? asked galbart glover, surprised. euron. crow's eye, they call him, as black a pirate as ever raised a sail. he's been gone for years, but lord balon was no sooner cold than there he was, sailing into lordsport in his silence. black sails and a red hull, and crewed by mutes. he'd been to asshai and back, i heard. wherever he was, though, he's home now, and he marched right into pyke and sat his arse in the seastone chair, and drowned lord botley in a cask of seawater when he objected. that was when i ran back to myraham and slipped anchor, hoping i could get away whilst things were confused. and so i did, and here i am. captain, said robb when the man was done, you have my thanks, and you will not go unrewarded. lord jason will take you back to your ship when we are done. pray wait outside. that i will, your grace. that i will. no sooner had he left the king's pavilion than the greatjon began to laugh, but robb silenced him with a look. euron greyjoy is no man's notion of a king, if half of what theon said of him was true. theon is the rightful heir, unless he's dead... but victarion commands the iron fleet. i can't believe he would remain at moat cailin while euron crow's eye holds the seastone chair. he has to go back. there's a daughter as well, galbart glover reminded him. the one who holds deepwood motte, and robett's wife and child. if she stays at deepwood motte that's all she can hope to hold, said robb. what's true for the brothers is even more true for her. she will need to sail home to oust euron and press her own claim. her son turned to lord jason mallister. you have a fleet at seagard? a fleet, your grace? haifa dozen longships and two war galleys. enough to defend my own shores against raiders, but i could not hope to meet the iron fleet in battle. nor would i ask it of you. the ironborn will be setting sail toward pyke, i expect. theon told me how his people think. every captain a king on his own deck. they will all want a voice in the succession. my lord, i need two of your longships to sail around the cape of eagles and up the neck to greywater watch. lord jason hesitated. a dozen streams drain the wetwood, all shallow, silty, and uncharted. i would not even call them rivers. the channels are ever drifting and changing. there are endless sandbars, deadfalls, and tangles of rotting trees. and greywater watch moves. how are my ships to find it? go upriver flying my banner. the crannogmen will find you. i want two ships to double the chances of my message reaching howland reed. lady maege shall go on one, galbart on the second. he turned to the two he'd named. you'll carry letters for those lords of mine who remain in the north, but all the commands within will be false, in case you have the misfortune to be taken. if that happens, you must tell them that you were sailing for the north. back to bear island, or for the stony shore. he tapped a finger on the map. moat cailin is the key. lord balon knew that, which is why he sent his brother victarion there with the hard heart of the greyjoy strength. succession squabbles or no, the ironborn are not such fools as to abandon moat cailin, said lady maege. no, robb admitted. victarion will leave the best part of his garrison, i'd guess. every man he takes will be one less man we need to fight, however. and he will take many of his captains, count on that. the leaders. he will need such men to speak for him if he hopes to sit the seastone chair. you cannot mean to attack up the causeway, your grace, said galbart glover. the approaches are too narrow. there is no way to deploy. no one has ever taken the moat. from the south, said robb. but if we can attack from the north and west simultaneously, and take the ironmen in the rear while they are beating off what they think is my main thrust up the causeway, then we have a chance. once i link up with lord bolton and the freys, i will have more than twelve thousand men. i mean to divide them into three battles and start up the causeway a half-day apart. if the greyjoys have eyes south of the neck, they will see my whole strength rushing headlong at moat cailin. roose bolton will have the rearguard, while i command the center. greatjon, you shall lead the van against moat cailin. your attack must be so fierce that the ironborn have no leisure to wonder if anyone is creeping down on them from the north. the greatjon chuckled. your creepers best come fast, or my men will swarm those walls and win the moat before you show your face. i'll make a gift of it to you when you come dawdling up. that's a gift i should be glad to have, said robb. edmure was frowning. you talk of attacking the ironmen in the rear, sire, but how do you mean to get north of them? there are ways through the neck that are not on any map, uncle. ways known only to the crannogmen - narrow trails between the bogs, and wet roads through the reeds that only boats can follow. he turned to his two messengers. tell howland reed that he is to send guides to me, two days after i have started up the causeway. to the center battle, where my own standard flies. three hosts will leave the twins, but only two will reach moat cailin. mine own battle will melt away into the neck, to reemerge on the fever. if we move swiftly once my uncle's wed, we can all be in position by year's end. we will fall upon the moat from three sides on the first day of the new century, as the ironmen are waking with hammers beating at their heads from the mead they'll quaff the night before. i like this plan, said the greatjon. i like it well. galbart glover rubbed his mouth. there are risks. if the crannogmen should fail you... we will be no worse than before. but they will not fail. my father knew the worth of howland reed. robb rolled up the map, and only then looked at catelyn. mother. she tensed. do you have some part in this for me? your part is to stay safe. our journey through the neck will be dangerous, and naught but battle awaits us in the north. but lord mallister has kindly offered to keep you safe at seagard until the war is done. you will be comfortable there, i know. is this my punishment for opposing him about jon snow? or for being a woman, and worse, a mother? it took her a moment to realize that they were all watching her. they had known, she realized. catelyn should not have been surprised. she had won no friends by freeing the kingslayer, and more than once she had heard the greatjon say that women had no place on a battlefield. her anger must have blazed across her face, because galbart glover spoke up before she said a word. my lady, his grace is wise. it's best you do not come with us. seagard will be brightened by your presence, lady catelyn, said lord jason mallister. you would make me a prisoner, she said. an honored guest, lord jason insisted. catelyn turned to her son. i mean no offense to lord jason, she said stiffly, but if i cannot continue on with you, i would sooner return to riverrun. i left my wife at riverrun. i want my mother elsewhere. if you keep all your treasures in one purse, you only make it easier for those who would rob you. after the wedding, you shall go to seagard, that is my royal command. robb stood, and as quick as that, her fate was settled. he picked up a sheet of parchment. one more matter. lord balon has left chaos in his wake, we hope. i would not do the same. yet i have no son as yet, my brothers bran and rickon are dead, and my sister is wed to a lannister. i've thought long and hard about who might follow me. i command you now as my true and loyal lords to fix your seals to this document as witnesses to my decision. a king indeed, catelyn thought, defeated. she could only hope that the trap he'd planned for moat cailin worked as well as the one in which he'd just caught her. they heard the green fork before they saw it, an endless susurrus, like the growl of some great beast. the river was a boiling torrent, half again as wide as it had been last year, when robb had divided his army here and vowed to take a frey to bride as the price of his crossing. he needed lord walder and his bridge then, and he needs them even more now. catelyn's heart was full of misgivings as she watched the murky green waters swirl past. there is no way we will ford this, nor swim across, and it could be a moon's turn before these waters fall again. as they neared the twins, robb donned his crown and summoned catelyn and edmure to ride beside him. ser raynald westerling bore his banner, the direwolf of stark on its ice- white field. the gatehouse towers emerged from the rain like ghosts, hazy grey apparitions that grew more solid the closer they rode. the frey stronghold was not one castle but two; mirror images in wet stone standing on opposite sides of the water, linked by a great arched bridge. from the center of its span rose the water tower, the river running straight and swift below. channels had been cut from the banks, to form moats that made each twin an island. the rains had turned the moats to shallow lakes. across the turbulent waters, catelyn could see several thousand men encamped around the eastern castle, their banners hanging like so many drowned cats from the lances outside their tents. the rain made it impossible to distinguish colors and devices. most were grey, it seemed to her, though beneath such skies the whole world seemed grey. tread lightly here, robb, she cautioned her son. lord walder has a thin skin and a sharp tongue, and some of these sons of his will doubtless take after their father. you must not let yourself be provoked. i know the freys, mother. i know how much i wronged them, and how much i need them. i shall be as sweet as a septon. catelyn shifted her seat uncomfortably. if we are offered refreshment when we arrive, on no account refuse. take what is offered, and eat and drink where all can see. if nothing is offered, ask for bread and cheese and a cup of wine. i'm more wet than hungry... robb, listen to me. once you have eaten of his bread and salt, you have the guest right, and the laws of hospitality protect you beneath his roof. robb looked more amused than afraid. i have an army to protect me, mother, i don't need to trust in bread and salt. but if it pleases lord walder to serve me stewed crow smothered in maggots, i'll eat it and ask for a second bowl. four freys rode out from the western gatehouse, wrapped in heavy cloaks of thick grey wool. catelyn recognized ser ryman, son of the late ser stevron, lord walder's firstborn. with his father dead, ryman was heir to the twins. the face she saw beneath his hood was fleshy, broad, and stupid. the other three were likely his own sons, lord walder's great grandsons. edmure confirmed as much. edwyn is eldest, the pale slender man with the constipated look. the wiry one with the beard is black walder, a nasty bit of business. petyr is on the bay, the lad with the unfortunate face. petyr pimple, his brothers call him. only a year or two older than robb, but lord walder married him off at ten to a woman thrice his age. gods, i hope roslin doesn't take after him. they halted to let their hosts come to them. robb's banner drooped on its staff, and the steady sound of rainfall mingled with the rush of the swollen green fork on their right. grey wind edged forward, tail stiff, watching through slitted eyes of dark gold. when the freys were a halfdozen yards away catelyn heard him growl, a deep rumble that seemed almost one with rush of the river. robb looked startled. grey wind, to me. to me! instead the direwo if leapt forward, snarling. ser ryman's palfrey shied off with a whinny of fear, and petyr pimple's reared and threw him. only black walder kept his mount in hand. he reached for the hilt of his sword. no! robb was shouting. grey wind, here. here. catelyn spurred between the direwo if and the horses. mud spattered from the hooves of her mare as she cut in front of grey wind. the wolf veered away, and only then seemed to hear robb calling. is this how a stark makes amends? black walder shouted, with naked steel in hand. a poor greeting i call it, to set your wolf upon us. is this why you've come? ser ryman had dismounted to help petyr pimple back to his feet. the lad was muddy, but unhurt. i've come to make my apology for the wrong i did your house, and to see my uncle wed. robb swung down from the saddle. petyr, take my horse. yours is almost back to the stable. petyr looked to his father and said, i can ride behind one of my brothers. the freys made no sign of obeisance. you come late, ser ryman declared. the rains delayed us, said robb. i sent a bird. i do not see the woman. by the woman ser ryman meant jeyne westerling, all knew. lady catelyn smiled apologetically. queen jeyne was weary after so much travel, sers. no doubt she will be pleased to visit when times are more settled. my grandfather will be displeased. though black walder had sheathed his sword, his tone was no friendlier. i've told him much of the lady, and he wished to behold her with his own eyes. edwyn cleared his throat. we have chambers prepared for you in the water tower, your grace, he told robb with careful courtesy, as well as for lord tully and lady stark. your lords bannermen are also welcome to shelter under our roof and partake of the wedding feast. and my men? asked robb. my lord grandfather regrets that he cannot feed nor house so large a host. we have been sore pressed to find fodder and provender for our own levies. nonetheless, your men shall not be neglected. if they will cross and set up their camp beside our own, we will bring out enough casks of wine and ale for all to drink the health of lord edmure and his bride. we have thrown up three great feast tents on the far bank, to provide them with some shelter from the rains. your lord father is most kind. my men will thank him. they have had a long wet ride. edmure tully edged his horse forward. when shall i meet my betrothed? she waits for you within, promised edwyn frey. you will forgive her if she seems shy, i know. she has been awaiting this day most anxiously, poor maid. but perhaps we might continue this out of the rain? truly. ser ryman mounted up again, pulling petyr pimple up behind him. if you would follow me, my father awaits. he turned the palfrey's head back toward the twins. edmure fell in beside catelyn. the late lord frey might have seen fit to welcome us in person, he complained. i am his liege lord as well as his son-to-be, and robb's his king. when you are one-and- ninety, brother, see how eager you are to go riding in the rain. yet she wondered if that was the whole truth of it. lord walder normally went about in a covered litter, which would have kept the worst of the rain off him. a deliberate slight? if so, it might be the first of many yet to come. there was more trouble at the gatehouse. grey wind balked in the middle of the drawbridge, shook the rain off, and howled at the portcullis. robb whistled impatiently. grey wind. what is it? grey wind, with me. but the direwolf only bared his teeth. he does not like this place, catelyn thought. robb had to squat and speak softly to the wolf before he would consent to pass beneath the portcullis. by then lame lothar and walder rivers had come up. it's the sound of the water he fears, rivers said. beasts know to avoid the river in flood. a dry kennel and a leg of mutton will see him right again, said lothar cheerfully. shall i summon our master of hounds? he's a direwolf, not a dog, said robb, and dangerous to men he does not trust. ser raynald, stay with him. i won't take him into lord walder' s hall like this. deftly done, catelyn decided. robb keeps the westerling out of lord walder's sight as well. gout and brittle bones had taken their toll of old walder frey. they found him propped up in his high seat with a cushion beneath him and an ermine robe across his lap. his chair was black oak, its back carved into the semblance of two stout towers joined by an arched bridge, so massive that its embrace turned the old man into a grotesque child. there was something of the vulture about lord walder, and rather more of the weasel. his bald head, spotted with age, thrust out from his scrawny shoulders on a long pink neck. loose skin dangled beneath his receding chin, his eyes were runny and clouded, and his toothless mouth moved constantly, sucking at the empty air as a babe sucks at his mother's breast. the eighth lady frey stood beside lord walder's high seat. at his feet sat a somewhat younger version of himself, a stooped thin man of fifty whose costly garb of blue wool and grey satin was strangely accented by a crown and collar ornamented with tiny brass bells. the likeness between him and his lord was striking, save for their eyes; lord frey's small, dim, and suspicious, the other's large, amiable, and vacant. catelyn recalled that one of lord walder's brood had fathered a halfwit long years ago. during past visits, the lord of the crossing had always taken care to hide this one away. did he always wear a fool's crown, or is that meant as mockery of robb? it was a question she dare not ask. frey sons, daughters, children, grandchildren, husbands, wives, and servants crowded the rest of the hall. but it was the old man who spoke. you will forgive me if i do not kneel, i know. my legs no longer work as they did, though that which hangs between'em serves well enough, heh. his mouth split in a toothless smile as he eyed robb's crown. some would say it's a poor king who crowns himself with bronze, your grace. bronze and iron are stronger than gold and silver, robb answered. the old kings of winter wore such a sword-crown. small good it did them when the dragons came. heh. that heh seemed to please the lackwit, who bobbed his head from side to side, jingling crown and collar. sire, lord walder said, forgive my aegon the noise. he has less wits than a crannogman, and he's never met a king before. one of stevron's boys. we call him jinglebell. ser stevron mentioned him, my lord. robb smiled at the lackwit. well met, aegon. your father was a brave man. jinglebell jingled his bells. a thin line of spit ran from one comer of his mouth when he smiled. save your royal breath. you'd do as well talking to a chamberpot. lord walder shifted his gaze to the others. well, lady catelyn, i see you have returned to us. and young ser edmure, the victor of the stone mill. lord tully now, i'll need to remember that. you're the fifth lord tully i've known. i outlived the other four, heh. your bride's about here somewhere. i suppose you want a look at her. i would, my lord. then you'll have it. but clothed. she's a modest girl, and a maid. you won't see her naked till the bedding. lord walder cackled. heh. soon enough, soon enough. he craned his head about. benfrey, go fetch your sister. be quick about it, lord tully's come all the way from riverrun. a young knight in a quartered surcoat bowed and took his leave, and the old man turned back to robb. and where's your bride, your grace? the fair queen jeyne. a westerling of the crag, i'm told, heh. i left her at riverrun, my lord. she was too weary for more travel, as we told ser ryman. that makes me grievous sad. i wanted to behold her with mine own weak eyes. we all did, heh. isn't that so, my lady? pale wispy lady frey seemed startled that she would be called upon to speak. y-yes, my lord. we all so wanted to pay homage to queen jeyne. she must be fair to look on. she is most fair, my lady. there was an icy stillness in robb's voice that reminded catelyn of his father. the old man either did not hear it or refused to pay it any heed. fairer than my own get, heh? elsewise how could her face and form have made the king's grace forget his solemn promise. robb suffered the rebuke with dignity. no words can set that right, i know, but i have come to make my apologies for the wrong i did your house, and to beg for your forgiveness, my lord. apologies, heh. yes, you vowed to make one, i recall. i'm old, but i don't forget such things. not like some kings, it seems. the young remember nothing when they see a pretty face and a nice firm pair of teats, isn't that so? i was the same. some might say i still am, heh heh. they'd be wrong, though, wrong as you were. but now you're here to make amends. it was my girls you spurned, though. mayhaps it's them should hear you beg for pardon, your grace. my maiden girls. here, have a look at them. when he waggled his fingers, a flurry of femininity left their places by the walls to line up beneath the dais. jinglebell started to rise as well, his bells ringing merrily, but lady frey grabbed the lackwit's sleeve and tugged him back down. lord walder named the names. my daughter arwyn, he said of a girl of fourteen. shirei, my youngest trueborn daughter. ami and marianne are granddaughters. i married ami to ser pate of sevenstreams, but the mountain killed the oaf so i got her back. that's a cersei, but we call her little bee, her mother's a beesbury. more granddaughters. one's a walda, and the others... well, they have names, whatever they are... i'm merry, lord grandfather, one girl said. you're noisy, that's for certain. next to noisy is my daughter tyta. then another walda. alyx, marissa... are you marissa? i thought you were. she's not always bald. the maester shaved her hair off, but he swears it will soon grow back. the twins are serra and sarra. he squinted down at one of the younger girls. heh, are you another walda? the girl could not have been more than four. i'm ser aemon rivers' s walda, lord great grandfather. she curtsied. how long have you been talking? not that you're like to have anything sensible to say, your father never did. he's a bastard's son besides, heh. go away, i wanted only freys up here. the king in the north has no interest in base stock. lord walder glanced to robb, as jinglebell bobbed his head and chimed. there they are, all maidens. well, and one widow, but there's some who like a woman broken in. you might have had any one of them. it would have been an impossible choice, my lord, said robb with careful courtesy. they're all too lovely. lord walder snorted. and they say my eyes are bad. some will do well enough, i suppose. others... well, it makes no matter. they weren't good enough for the king in the north, heh. now what is it you have to say? my ladies. robb looked desperately uncomfortable, but he had known this moment must come, and he faced it without flinching. all men should keep their word, kings most of all. i was pledged to marry one of you and i broke that vow. the fault is not in you. what i did was not done to slight you, but because i loved another. no words can set it right, i know, yet i come before you to ask forgiveness, that the freys of the crossing and the starks of winterfell may once again be friends. the smaller girls fidgeted anxiously. their older sisters waited for lord walder on his black oak throne. jinglebell rocked back and forth, bells chiming on collar and crown. good, the lord of the crossing said. that was very good, your grace.'no words can set it right' heh. well said, well said. at the wedding feast i hope you will not refuse to dance with my daughters. it would please an old man's heart, heh. he bobbed his wrinkled pink head up and down, in much the same way his lackwit grandson did, though lord walder wore no bells. and here she is, lord edmure. my daughter roslin, my most precious little blossom, heh. ser benfrey led her into the hall. they looked enough alike to be full siblings. judging from their age, both were children of the sixth lady frey; a rosby, catelyn seemed to recall. roslin was small for her years, her skin as white as if she had just risen from a milk bath. her face was comely, with a small chin, delicate nose, and big brown eyes. thick chestnut hair fell in loose waves to a waist so tiny that edmure would be able to put his hands around it. beneath the lacy bodice of her pale blue gown, her breasts looked small but shapely. your grace. the girl went to her knees. lord edmure, i hope i am not a disappointment to you. far from it, thought catelyn. her brother's face had lit up at the sight of her. you are a delight to me, my lady, edmure said. and ever will be, i know. roslin had a small gap between two of her front teeth that made her shy with her smiles, but the flaw was almost endearing. pretty enough, catelyn thought, but so small, and she comes of rosby stock. the rosbys had never been robust. she much preferred the frames of some of the older girls in the hall; daughters or granddaughters, she could not be sure. they had a crakehall look about them, and lord walder's third wife had been of that house. wide hips to bear children, big breasts to nurse them, strong arms to carry them. the grakehalls have always been a bigboned family, and strong. my lord is kind, the lady roslin said to edmure. my lady is beautiful. edmure took her hand and drew her to her feet. but why are you crying? for joy, roslin said. i weep for joy, my lord. enough, lord walder broke in. you may weep and whisper after you're wed, heh. benfrey, see your sister back to her chambers, she has a wedding to prepare for. and a bedding, heh, the sweetest part. for all, for all. his mouth moved in and out. we'll have music, such sweet music, and wine, heh, the red will run, and we'll put some wrongs aright. but now you're weary, and wet as well, dripping on my floor. there's fires waiting for you, and hot mulled wine, and baths if you want'em. lothar, show our guests to their quarters. i need to see my men across the river, my lord, robb said. they shan't get lost, lord walder complained. they've crossed before, haven't they? when you came down from the north. you wanted crossing and i gave it to you, and you never said mayhaps, heh. but suit yourself. lead each man across by the hand if you like, it's naught to me. my lord! catelyn had almost forgotten. some food would be most welcome. we have ridden many leagues in the rain. walder frey's mouth moved in and out. food, heh. a loaf of bread, a bite of cheese, mayhaps a sausage. some wine to wash it down, robb said. and salt. bread and salt. heh. of course, of course. the old man clapped his hands together, and servants came into the hall, bearing flagons of wine and trays of bread, cheese, and butter. lord walder took a cup of red himself, and raised it high with a spotted hand. my guests, he said. my honored guests. be welcome beneath my roof, and at my table. we thank you for your hospitality, my lord, robb replied. edmure echoed him, along with the greatjon, ser marq piper, and the others. they drank his wine and ate his bread and butter. catelyn tasted the wine and nibbled at some bread, and felt much the better for it. now we should be safe, she thought. knowing how petty the old man could be, she had expected their rooms to be bleak and cheerless. but the freys had made more than ample provision for them, it seemed. the bridal chamber was large and richly appointed, dominated by a great featherbed with comer posts carved in the likeness of castle towers, its draperies were tully red and blue, a nice courtesy. sweet-smelling carpets covered a plank floor, and a tall shuttered window opened to the south. catelyn' s own room was smaller, but handsomely furnished and comfortable, with a fire burning in the hearth. lame lothar assured them that robb would have an entire suite, as befit a king. if there is anything you require, you need only tell one of the guards. he bowed and withdrew, limping heavily as he made his way down the curving steps. we should post our own guards, catelyn told her brother. she would rest easier with stark and tully men outside her door. the audience with lord walder had not been as painful as she feared, yet all the same she would be glad to be done with this. a few more days, and robb will be off to battle, and me to a comfortable captivity at seagard. lord jason would show her every courtesy, she had no doubt, but the prospect still depressed her. she could hear the sounds of horses below as the long column of mounted men wound their way across the bridge from castle to castle. the stones rumbled to the passage of heavy-laden wayns. catelyn went to the window and gazed out, to watch robb's host emerge from the eastern twin. the rain seems to be lessening. now that we're inside. edmure stood before the fire, letting the warmth wash over him. what did you make of roslin? too small and delicate. childbirth will go hard on her. but her brother seemed well pleased with the girl, so all she said was, sweet. i believe she liked me. why was she crying? she's a maid on the eve of her wedding. a few tears are to be expected. lysa had wept lakes the morning of their own wedding, though she had managed to be dry-eyed and radiant when jon arryn swept his cream-and-blue cloak about her shoulders. she's prettier than i dared hope. edmure raised a hand before she could speak. i know there are more important things, spare me the sermon, septa. even so... did you see some of those other maids frey trotted out? the one with the twitch? was that the shaking sickness? and those twins had more craters and eruptions on their faces than petyr pimple. when i saw that lot, i knew roslin would be bald and one-eyed, with jinglebell's wits and black walder's temper. but she seems gentle as well as fair. he looked perplexed, why would the old weasel refuse to let me choose unless he meant to foist off someone hideous? your fondness for a pretty face is well known, catelyn reminded him. perhaps lord walder actually wants you to be happy with your bride. or more like, he did not want you balking over a boil and upsetting all his plans. or it may be that roslin is the old man's favorite. the lord of riverrun is a much better match than most of his daughters can hope for. true. her brother still seemed uncertain, however. is it possible the girl is barren? lord walder wants his grandson to inherit riverrun. how would it serve him to give you a barren wife? it rids him of a daughter no one else would take. small good that will do him. walder frey is a peevish man, not a stupid one. still... it is possible? yes, catelyn conceded, reluctantly. there are illnesses a girl can have in childhood that leave her unable to conceive. there's no reason to believe that lady roslin was so afflicted, though. she looked round the room. the freys have received us more kindly than i had anticipated, if truth be told. edmure laughed. a few barbed words and some unseemly gloating. from him that's courtesy. i expected the old weasel to piss in our wine and make us praise the vintage. the jest left catelyn strangely disquieted. if you will excuse me, i should change from these wet clothes. as you wish. edmure yawned. i may nap an hour. she retreated to her own room. the chest of clothes she'd brought from riverrun had been carried up and laid at the foot of the bed. after she'd undressed and hung her wet clothing by the fire, she donned a warm wool dress of tully red and blue, washed and brushed her hair and let it dry, and went in search of freys. lord walder' s black oak throne was empty when she entered the hall, but some of his sons were drinking by the fire. lame lothar rose clumsily when he saw her. lady catelyn, i thought you would be resting. how may i be of service? are these your brothers? she asked. brothers, half-brothers, good brothers, and nephews. raymund and i shared a mother. lord lucias vypren is my halfsister lythene's husband, and ser damon is their son. my half-brother ser hosteen i believe you know. and this is ser leslyn haigh and his sons, ser harys and ser donnel. well met, sers. is ser perwyn about? he helped escort me to storm's end and back, when robb sent me to speak with lord renly. i was looking forward to seeing him again. perwyn is away, lame lothar said. i shall give him your regards. i know he will regret having missed you. surely he will return in time for lady roslin' s wedding? he had hoped to, said lame lothar, but with this rain... you saw how the rivers ran, my lady. i did indeed, said catelyn. i wonder if you would be so good as to direct me to your maester? are you unwell, my lady? asked ser hosteen, a powerful man with a square strong jaw. a woman's complaint. nothing to concern you, ser. lothar, ever gracious, escorted her from the hall, up some steps, and across a covered bridge to another stair. you should find maester brenett in the turret on the top, my lady. catelyn half expected that the maester would be yet another son of walder frey's, but brenett did not have the look. he was a great fat man, bald and double-chinned and none too clean, to judge from the raven droppings that stained the sleeves of his robes, yet he seemed amiable enough. when she told him of edmure's concerns about lady roslin's fertility, he chuckled. your lord brother need have no fear, lady catelyn. she's small, i'll grant you, and narrow in the hips, but her mother was the same, and lady bethany gave lord walder a child every year. how many lived past infancy? she asked bluntly. five. he ticked them off on fingers plump as sausages. ser perwyn. ser benfrey. maester willamen, who took his vows last year and now serves lord hunter in the vale. olyvar, who squired for your son. and lady roslin, the youngest. four boys to one girl. lord edmure will have more sons than he knows what to do with. i am sure that will please him. so the girl was like to be fertile as well as fair of face. that should put edmure's mind at ease. lord walder had left her brother no cause for complaint, so far as she could see. catelyn did not return to her own room after leaving the maester; instead she went to robb. she found robin flint and ser wendel manderly with him, along with the greatjon and his son, who was still called the smalljon though he threatened to overtop his father. they were all damp. another man, still wetter, stood before the fire in a pale pink cloak trimmed with white fur. lord bolton, she said. lady catelyn, he replied, his voice faint, it is a pleasure to look on you again, even in such trying times. you are kind to say so. catelyn could feel gloom in the room. even the greatjon seemed somber and subdued. she looked at their grim faces and said, what's happened? lannisters on the trident, said ser wendel unhappily. my brother is taken again. and lord bolton has brought us further word of winterfell, robb added. ser rodrik was not the only good man to die. cley cerwyn and leobald tallhart were slain as well. cley cerwyn was only a boy, she said, saddened. is this true, then? all dead, and winterfell gone? bolton's pale eyes met her own. the ironmen burned both castle and winter town. some of your people were taken back to the dreadfort by my son, ramsay. your bastard was accused of grievous crimes, catelyn reminded him sharply. of murder, rape, and worse. yes, roose bolton said. his blood is tainted, that cannot be denied. yet he is a good fighter, as cunning as he is fearless. when the ironmen cut down ser rodrik, and leobald tallhart soon after, it fell to ramsay to lead the battle, and he did. he swears that he shall not sheathe his sword so long as a single greyjoy remains in the north. perhaps such service might atone in some small measure for whatever crimes his bastard blood has led him to commit. he shrugged. or not. when the war is done, his grace must weigh and judge. by then i hope to have a trueborn son by lady walda. this is a cold man, catelyn realized, not for the first time. did ramsay mention theon greyjoy? robb demanded. was he slain as well, or did he flee? roose bolton removed a ragged strip of leather from the pouch at his belt. my son sent this with his letter. ser wendel turned his fat face away. robin flint and smalljon umber exchanged a look, and the greatjon snorted like a bull. is that... skin? said robb. the skin from the little finger of theon greyjoy's left hand. my son is cruel, i confess it. and yet... what is a little skin, against the lives of two young princes? you were their mother, my lady. may i offer you this... small token of revenge? part of catelyn wanted to clutch the grisly trophy to her heart, but she made herself resist. put it away. please. flaying theon will not bring my brothers back, robb said. i want his head, not his skin. he is balon greyjoy's only living son, lord bolton said softly, as if they had forgotten, and now rightful king of the iron islands. a captive king has great value as a hostage. hostage? the word raised catelyn' s hackles. hostages were oft exchanged. lord bolton, i hope you are not suggesting that we free the man who killed my sons. whoever wins the seastone chair will want theon greyjoy dead, bolton pointed out. even in chains, he has a better claim than any of his uncles. hold him, i say, and demand concessions from the ironborn as the price of his execution. robb considered that reluctantly, but in the end he nodded. yes. very well. keep him alive, then. for the present. hold him secure at the dreadfort till we've retaken the north. catelyn turned back to roose bolton. ser wendel said something of lannisters on the trident? he did, my lady. i blame myself. i delayed too long before leaving harrenhal. aenys frey departed several days before me and crossed the trident at the ruby ford, though not without difficulty. but by the time we came up the river was a torrent. i had no choice but to ferry my men across in small boats, of which we had too few. two-thirds of my strength was on the north side when the lannisters attacked those still waiting to cross. norrey, locke, and burley men chiefly, with ser wylis manderly and his white harbor knights as rear guard. i was on the wrong side of the trident, powerless to help them. ser wylis rallied our men as best he could, but gregor clegane attacked with heavy horse and drove them into the river. as many drowned as were cut down. more fled, and the rest were taken captive. gregor clegane was always ill news, catelyn reflected. would robb need to march south again to deal with him? or was the mountain coming here? is clegane across the river, then? no. bolton's voice was soft, but certain. i left six hundred men at the ford. spearmen from the rills, the mountains, and the white knife, a hundred hornwood longbows, some freeriders and hedge knights, and a strong force of stout and cerwyn men to stiffen them. ronnel stout and ser kyle condon have the command. ser kyle was the late lord cerwyn's right hand, as i'm sure you know, my lady. lions swim no better than wolves. so long as the river runs high, ser gregor will not cross. the last thing we need is the mountain at our backs when we start up the causeway, said robb. you did well, my lord. your grace is too kind. i suffered grievous losses on the green fork, and glover and tallhart worse at duskendale. duskendale. robb made the word a curse. robett glover will answer for that when i see him, i promise you. a folly, lord bolton agreed, but glover was heedless after he learned that deepwood motte had fallen. grief and fear will do that to a man. duskendale was done and cold; it was the battles still to come that worried catelyn. how many men have you brought my son? she asked roose bolton pointedly. his queer colorless eyes studied her face a moment before he answered. some five hundred horse and three thousand foot, my lady. dreadfort men, in chief, and some from karhold. with the loyalty of the karstarks so doubtful now, i thought it best to keep them close. i regret there are not more. it should be enough, said robb. you will have command of my rear guard, lord bolton. i mean to start for the neck as soon as my uncle has been wedded and bedded. we're going home. the drums were pounding, pounding, pounding, and her head with them. pipes wailed and flutes trilled from the musicians' gallery at the foot of the hall; fiddles screeched, horns blew, the skins skirled a lively tune, but the drumming drove them all. the sounds echoed off the rafters, whilst the guests ate, drank, and shouted at one another below. walder frey must be deaf as a stone to call this music. catelyn sipped a cup of wine and watched jinglebell prance to the sounds of alysanne. at least she thought it was meant to be alysanne. with these players, it might as easily have been the bear and the maiden fair. outside the rain still fell, but within the twins the air was thick and hot. a fire roared in the hearth and rows of torches burned smokily from iron sconces on the walls. yet most of the heat came off the bodies of the wedding guests, jammed in so thick along the benches that every man who tried to lift his cup poked his neighbor in the ribs. even on the dais they were closer than catelyn would have liked. she had been placed between ser ryman frey and roose bolton, and had gotten a good noseful of both. ser ryman drank as if westeros was about to run short of wine, and sweated it all out under his arms. he had bathed in lemonwater, she judged, but no lemon could mask so much sour sweat. roose bolton had a sweeter smell to him, yet no more pleasant. he sipped hippocras in preference to wine or mead, and ate but little. catelyn could not fault him for his lack of appetite. the wedding feast began with a thin leek soup, followed by a salad of green beans, onions, and beets, river pike poached in almond milk, mounds of mashed turnips that were cold before they reached the table, jellied calves' brains, and a leche of stringy beef. it was poor fare to set before a king, and the calves' brains turned catelyn's stomach. yet robb ate it uncomplaining, and her brother was too caught up with his bride to pay much attention. you would never guess edmure complained of roslin all the way from riverrun to the twins. husband and wife ate from a single plate, drank from a single cup, and exchanged chaste kisses between sips. most of the dishes edmure waved away. she could not blame him for that. she remembered little of the food served at her own wedding feast. did i even taste it? or spend the whole time gazing at ned's face, wondering who he was? poor roslin' s smile had a fixed quality to it, as if someone had sewn it onto her face. well, she is a maid wedded, but the bedding's yet to come. no doubt she's as terrified as i was. robb was seated between alyx frey and fair walda, two of the more nubile frey maidens. at the wedding feast i hope you will not refuse to dance with my daughters, walder frey had said. it would please an old man's heart. his heart should be well pleased, then; robb had done his duty like a king. he had danced with each of the girls, with edmure's bride and the eighth lady frey, with the widow ami and roose bolton's wife fat walda, with the pimply twins serra and sarra, even with shirei, lord walder's youngest, who must have been all of six. catelyn wondered whether the lord of the crossing would be satisfied, or if he would find cause for complaint in all the other daughters and granddaughters who had not had a turn with the king. your sisters dance very well, she said to ser ryman frey, trying to be pleasant. they're aunts and cousins. ser ryman drank a swallow of wine, the sweat trickling down his cheek into his beard. a sour man, and in his cups, catelyn thought. the late lord frey might be niggardly when it came to feeding his guests, but he did not stint on the drink. the ale, wine, and mead were flowing as fast as the river outside. the greatjon was already roaring drunk. lord walder's son merrett was matching him cup for cup, but ser whalen frey had passed out trying to keep up with the two of them. catelyn would sooner lord umber had seen fit to stay sober, but telling the greatjon not to drink was like telling him not to breathe for a few hours. smalljon umber and robin flint sat near robb, to the other side of fair walda and alyx, respectively. neither of them was drinking; along with patrek mallister and dacey mormont, they were her son's guards this evening. a wedding feast was not a battle, but there were always dangers when men were in their cups, and a king should never be unguarded. catelyn was glad of that, and even more glad of the swordbelts hanging on pegs along the walls. no man needs a longsword to deal with jellied calves' brains. everyone thought my lord would choose fair walda, lady walda bolton told ser wendel, shouting to be heard above the music. fat walda was a round pink butterball of a girl with watery blue eyes, limp yellow hair, and a huge bosom, yet her voice was a fluttering squeak. it was hard to picture her in the dreadfort in her pink lace and cape of vair. my lord grandfather offered roose his bride's weight in silver as a dowry, though, so my lord of bolton picked me. the girl's chins jiggled when she laughed. i weigh six stone more than fair walda, but that was the first time i was glad of it. i'm lady bolton now and my cousin's still a maid, and she'll be nineteen soon, poor thing. the lord of the dreadfort paid the chatter no mind, catelyn saw. sometimes he tasted a bite of this, a spoon of that, tearing bread from the loaf with short strong fingers, but the meal could not distract him. bolton had made a toast to lord walder's grandsons when the wedding feast began, pointedly mentioning that walder and walder were in the care of his bastard son. from the way the old man had squinted at him, his mouth sucking at the air, catelyn knew he had heard the unspoken threat. was there ever a wedding less joyful? she wondered, until she remembered her poor sansa and her marriage to the imp. mother take mercy on her. she has a gentle soul. the heat and smoke and noise were making her sick. the musicians in the gallery might be numerous and loud, but they were not especially gifted. catelyn took another swallow of wine and allowed a page to refill her cup. a few more hours, and the worst will be over. by this hour tomorrow robb would be off to another battle, this time with the ironmen at moat cailin. strange, how that prospect seemed almost a relief. he will win his battle. he wins all his battles, and the ironborn are without a king. besides, ned taught him well. the drums were pounding. jinglebell hopped past her once again, but the music was so loud she could scarcely hear his bells. above the din came a sudden snarling as two dogs fell upon each other over a scrap of meat. they rolled across the floor, snapping and biting, as a howl of mirth went up. someone doused them with a flagon of ale and they broke apart. one limped toward the dais. lord walder's toothless mouth opened in a bark of laughter as the dripping wet dog shook ale and hair all over three of his grandsons. the sight of the dogs made catelyn wish once more for grey wind, but robb's direwolf was nowhere to be seen. lord walder had refused to allow him in the hall. your wild beast has a taste for human flesh, i hear, heh, the old man had said. rips out throats, yes. i'll have no such creature at my roslin's feast, amongst women and little ones, all my sweet innocents. grey wind is no danger to them, my lord, robb protested. not so long as i am there. you were there at my gates, were you not? when the wolf attacked the grandsons i sent to greet you? i heard all about that, don't think i didn't, heh. no harm was done. no harm, the king says? no harm? petyr fell from his horse, fell. i lost a wife the same way, falling. his mouth worked in and out. or was she just some strumpet? bastard walder's mother, yes, now i recall. she fell off her horse and cracked her head. what would your grace do if petyr had broken his neck, heh? give me another apology in place of a grandson? no, no, no. might be you're king, i won't say you're not, the king in the north, heh, but under my roof, my rule. have your wolf or have your wedding, sire. you'll not have both. catelyn could tell that her son was furious, but he yielded with as much courtesy as he could summon. if it pleases lord walder to serve me stewed crow smothered in maggots, he'd told her, i'll eat it and ask for a second bowl. and so he had. the greatjon had drunk another of lord walder's brood under the table, petyr pimple this time. the lad has a third his capacity, what did he expect? lord umber wiped his mouth, stood, and began to sing. a bear there was, a bear, a bear! all black and brown and covered with hair! his voice was not at all bad, though somewhat thick from drink. unfortunately the fiddlers and drummers and flutists up above were playing flowers of spring, which suited the words of the bear and the maiden fair as well as snails might suit a bowl of porridge. even poor jinglebell covered his ears at the cacophony. roose bolton murmured some words too soft to hear and went off in search of a privy. the cramped hall was in a constant uproar of guests and servants coming and going. a second feast, for knights and lords of somewhat lesser rank, was roaring along in the other castle, she knew. lord walder had exiled his baseborn children and their offspring to that side of the river, so that robb's northmen had taken to referring to it as the bastard feast. some guests were no doubt stealing off to see if the bastards were having a better time than they were. some might even be venturing as far as the camps. the freys had provided wagons of wine, ale and mead, so the common soldiers could drink to the wedding of riverrun and the twins. robb sat down in bolton's vacant place. a few more hours and this farce is done, mother, he said in a low voice, as the greatjon sang of the maid with honey in her hair. black walder's been mild as a lamb for once. and uncle edmure seems well content in his bride. he leaned across her. ser ryman? ser ryman frey blinked and said, sire. yes? i'd hoped to ask olyvar to squire for me when we march north, said robb, but i do not see him here. would he be at the other feast? olyvar? ser ryman shook his head. no. not olyvar. gone... gone from the castles. duty. i see. robb's tone suggested otherwise. when ser ryman offered nothing more, the king got to his feet again. would you care for a dance, mother? thank you, but no. a dance was the last thing she needed, the way her head was throbbing. no doubt one of lord walder's daughters would be pleased to partner you. oh, no doubt. his smile was resigned. the musicians were playing iron lances by then, while the greatjon sang the lusty lad. someone should acquaint them with each other, it might improve the harmony. catelyn turned back to ser ryman. i had heard that one of your cousins was a singer. alesander. symond's son. alyx is his sister. he raised a cup toward where she danced with robin flint. will alesander be playing for us tonight? ser ryman squinted at her. not him. he's away. he wiped sweat from his brow and lurched to his feet. pardons, my lady. pardons. catelyn watched him stagger toward the door. edmure was kissing roslin and squeezing her hand. elsewhere in the hall, ser marq piper and ser danwell frey played a drinking game, lame lothar said something amusing to ser hosteen, one of the younger freys juggled three daggers for a group of giggly girls, and jinglebell sat on the floor sucking wine off his fingers. the servers were bringing out huge silver platters piled high with cuts of juicy pink lamb, the most appetizing dish they'd seen all evening. and robb was leading dacey mormont in a dance. when she wore a dress in place of a hauberk, lady maege's eldest daughter was quite pretty; tall and willowy, with a shy smile that made her long face light up. it was pleasant to see that she could be as graceful on the dance floor as in the training yard. catelyn wondered if lady maege had reached the neck as yet. she had taken her other daughters with her, but as one of robb's battle companions dacey had chosen to remain by his side. he has ned's gift for inspiring loyalty. olyvar frey had been devoted to her son as well. hadn't robb said that olyvar wanted to remain with him even after he'd married jeyne? seated betwixt his black oak towers, the lord of the crossing clapped his spotted hands together. the noise they made was so faint that even those on the dais scarce heard it, but ser aenys and ser hosteen saw and began to pound their cups on the table. lame lothar joined them, then marq piper and ser danwell and ser raymund. half the guests were soon pounding. finally even the mob of musicians in the gallery took note. the piping, drumming, and fiddling trailed off into quiet. your grace, lord walder called out to robb, the septon has prayed his prayers, some words have been said, and lord edmure's wrapped my sweetling in a fish cloak, but they are not yet man and wife. a sword needs a sheath, heh, and a wedding needs a bedding. what does my sire say? is it meet that we should bed them? a score or more of walder frey's sons and grandsons began to bang their cups again, shouting, to bed! to bed! to bed with them! roslin had gone white. catelyn wondered whether it was the prospect of losing her maidenhead that frightened the girl, or the bedding itself. with so many siblings, she was not like to be a stranger to the custom, but it was different when you were the one being bedded. on catelyn's own wedding night, jory cassell had torn her gown in his haste to get her out of it, and drunken desmond grell kept apologizing for every bawdy joke, only to make another. when lord dustin had beheld her naked, he'd told ned that her breasts were enough to make him wish he'd never been weaned. poor man, she thought. he had ridden south with ned, never to return. catelyn wondered how many of the men here tonight would be dead before the year was done. too many, i fear. robb raised a hand, if you think the time is meet, lord walder, by all means let us bed them. a roar of approval greeted his pronouncement. up in the gallery the musicians took up their pipes and horns and fiddles again, and began to play the queen took off her sandal, the king took off his crown. jinglebell. hopped from foot to foot, his own crown ringing. i hear tully men have trout between their legs instead of cocks, alyx frey called out boldly. does it take a worm to make them rise? to which ser marq piper threw back, i hear that frey women have two gates in place of one! and alyx said, aye, but both are closed and barred to little things like you! a gust of laughter followed, until patrek mallister climbed up onto a table to propose a toast to edmure's one-eyed fish. and a mighty pike it is! he proclaimed. nay, i'll wager it's a minnow, fat walda bolton shouted out from catelyn's side. then the general cry of bed them! bed them! went up again. the guests swarmed the dais, the drunkest in the forefront as ever. the men and boys surrounded roslin and lifted her into the air whilst the maids and mothers in the hall pulled edmure to his feet and began tugging at his clothing. he was laughing and shouting bawdy jokes back at them, though the music was too loud for catelyn to hear. she heard the greatjon, though. give this little bride to me, he bellowed as he shoved through the other men and threw roslin over one shoulder. look at this little thing! no meat on her at all! catelyn felt sorry for the girl. most brides tried to return the banter, or at least pretended to enjoy it, but roslin was stiff with terror, clutching the greatjon as if she feared he might drop her. she's crying too, catelyn realized as she watched ser marq piper pull off one of the bride's shoes. i hope edmure is gentle with the poor child, jolly, bawdy music still poured down from the gallery; the queen was taking off her kirtle now, and the king his tunic. she knew she should join the throng of women round her brother, but she would only ruin their fun. the last thing she felt just now was bawdy. edmure would forgive her absence, she did not doubt; much jollier to be stripped and bedded by a score of lusty, laughing freys than by a sour, stricken sister. as man and maid were carried from the hall, a trail of clothing behind them, catelyn saw that robb had also remained. walder frey was prickly enough to see some insult to his daughter in that. he should join in roslin's bedding, but is it my place to tell him so? she tensed, until she saw that others had stayed as well. petyr pimple and ser whalen frey slept on, their heads on the table. merrett frey poured himself another cup of wine, while jinglebell wandered about stealing bites off the plates of those who'd left. ser wendel manderly was lustily attacking a leg of lamb. and of course lord walder was far too feeble to leave his seat without help. he will expect robb to go, though. she could almost hear the old man asking why his grace did not want to see his daughter naked. the drums were pounding again, pounding and pounding and pounding. dacey mormont, who seemed to be the only woman left in the hall besides catelyn, stepped up behind edwyn frey, and touched him lightly on the arm as she said something in his ear. edwyn wrenched himself away from her with unseemly violence. no, he said, too loudly. i'm done with dancing for the nonce. dacey paled and turned away. catelyn got slowly to her feet. what just happened there? doubt gripped her heart, where an instant before had been only weariness. it is nothing, she tried to tell herself, you are seeing grumkins in the woodpile, you are become an old silly woman sick with grief and fear. but something must have shown on her face. even ser wendel manderly took note. is something amiss? he asked, the leg of lamb in his hands. she did not answer him. instead she went after edwyn frey. the players in the gallery had finally gotten both king and queen down to their name-day suits. with scarcely a moment's respite, they began to play a very different sort of song. no one sang the words, but catelyn knew the rains of castamere when she heard it. edwyn was hurrying toward a door. she hurried faster, driven by the music. six quick strides and she caught him. and who are you, the proud lord said, that i must bow so low? she grabbed edwyn by the arm to turn him and went cold all over when she felt the iron rings beneath his silken sleeve. catelyn slapped him so hard she broke his lip. olyvar, she thought, and perwyn, alesander, all absent. and roslin wept... edwyn frey shoved her aside. the music drowned all other sound, echoing off the walls as if the stones themselves were playing. robb gave edwyn an angry look and moved to block his way... and staggered suddenly as a quarrel sprouted from his side, just beneath the shoulder. if he screamed then, the sound was swallowed by the pipes and horns and fiddles. catelyn saw a second bolt pierce his leg, saw him fall. up in the gallery, half the musicians had crossbows in their hands instead of drums or lutes. she ran toward her son, until something punched in the small of the back and the hard stone floor came up to slap her. robb! she screamed. she saw smalljon umber wrestle a table off its trestles. crossbow bolts thudded into the wood, one two three, as he flung it down on top of his king. robin flint was ringed by freys, their daggers rising and falling. ser wendel manderly rose ponderously to his feet, holding his leg of lamb. a quarrel went in his open mouth and came out the back of his neck. ser wendel crashed forward, knocking the table off its trestles and sending cups, flagons, trenchers, platters, turnips, beets, and wine bouncing, spilling, and sliding across the floor. catelyn' s back was on fire. i have to reach him. the smalljon bludgeoned ser raymund frey across the face with a leg of mutton. but when he reached for his swordbelt a crossbow bolt drove him to his knees. in a coat of gold or a coat of red, a lion still has claws. she saw lucas blackwood cut down by ser hosteen frey. one of the vances was hamstrung by black walder as he was wrestling with ser harys haigh. and mine are long and sharp, my lord, as long and sharp as yours. the crossbows took donnel locke, owennorrey, and half a dozen more. young ser benfrey had seized dacey mormont by the arm, but catelyn saw her grab up a flagon of wine with her other hand, smash it full in his face, and run for the door. it flew open before she reached it. ser ryman frey pushed into the hall, clad in steel from helm to heel. a dozen frey men-at-arms packed the door behind him. they were armed with heavy longaxes. mercy! catelyn cried, but horns and drums and the clash of steel smothered her plea. ser ryman buried the head of his axe in dacey' s stomach. by then men were pouring in the other doors as well, mailed men in shaggy fur cloaks with steel in their hands. northmen! she took them for rescue for half a heartbeat, till one of them struck the smalljon's head off with two huge blows of his axe. hope blew out like a candle in a storm. in the midst of slaughter, the lord of the crossing sat on his carved oaken throne, watching greedily. there was a dagger on the floor a few feet away. perhaps it had skittered there when the smalljon knocked the table off its trestles, or perhaps it had fallen from the hand of some dying man. catelyn crawled toward it. her limbs were leaden, and the taste of blood was in her mouth. i will kill walder frey, she told herself. jinglebell was closer to the knife, hiding under a table, but he only cringed away as she snatched up the blade. i will kill the old man, i can do that much at least. then the tabletop that the smalljon had flung over robb shifted , and her son struggled to his knees. he had an arrow in his side, a second in his leg, a third through his chest. lord walder raised a hand, and the music stopped, all but one drum. catelyn heard the crash of distant battle, and closer the wild howling of a wolf. grey wind, she remembered too late. heh, lord walder cackled at robb, the king in the north arises. seems we killed some of your men, your grace. oh, but i'll make you an apology, that will mend them all again, heh.- catelyn grabbed a handful of jinglebell frey's long grey hair and dragged him out of his hiding place. lord walder! she shouted. lord walder! the drum beat slow and sonorous, doom boom doom. enough, said catelyn. enough, i say. you have repaid betrayal with betrayal, let it end. when she pressed her dagger to jingle bell's throat, the memory of bran's sickroom came back to her, with the feel of steel at her own throat. the drum went boom doom boom doom boom doom. please, she said. he is my son. my first son, and my last. let him go. let him go and i swear we will forget this... forget all you've done here. i swear it by the old gods and new, we... we will take no vengeance... lord walder peered at her in mistrust. only a fool would believe such blather. d'you take me for a fool, my lady? i take you for a father. keep me for a hostage, edmure as well if you haven't killed him. but let robb go. no. robb's voice was whisper faint. mother, no... yes. robb, get up. get up and walk out, please, please. save yourself... if not for me, for jeyne. jeyne? robb grabbed the edge of the table and forced himself to stand. mother, he said, grey wind... go to him. now. robb, walk out of here. lord walder snorted. and why would i let him do that? she pressed the blade deeper into jinglebelps throat. the lackwit rolled his eyes at her in mute appeal. a foul stench assailed her nose, but she paid it no more mind than she did the sullen ceaseless pounding of that drum, boom doom boom doom boom doom. ser ryman and black walder were circling round her back, but catelyn did not care. they could do as they wished with her; imprison her, rape her, kill her, it made no matter. she had lived too long, and ned was waiting. it was robb she feared for. on my honor as a tully, she told lord walder, on my honor as a stark, i will trade your boy's life for robb's. a son for a son. her hand shook so badly she was ringing jinglebell's head. boom, the drum sounded, boom doom boom doom. the old man's lips went in and out. the knife trembled in catelyn' s hand, slippery with sweat. a son for a son, heh, he repeated. but that's a grandson... and he never was much use. a man in dark armor and a pale pink cloak spotted with blood stepped up to robb. jaime lannister sends his regards. he thrust his longsword through her son's heart, and twisted. robb had broken his word, but catelyn kept hers. she tugged hard on aegon's hair and sawed at his neck until the blade grated on bone. blood ran hot over her fingers. his little bells were ringing, ringing, ringing, and the drum went boom doom boom. finally someone took the knife away from her. the tears burned like vinegar as they ran down her cheeks. ten fierce ravens were raking her face with sharp talons and tearing off strips of flesh, leaving deep furrows that ran red with blood. she could taste it on her lips. it hurts so much, she thought. our children, ned, all our sweet babes. rickon, bran, arya, sansa, robb... robb... please, ned, please, make it stop, make it stop hurting... the white tears and the red ones ran together until her face was torn and tattered, the face that ned had loved. catelyn stark raised her hands and watched the blood run down her long fingers, over her wrists, beneath the sleeves of her gown. slow red worms crawled along her arms and under her clothes. it tickles. that made her laugh until she screamed. mad, someone said, she's lost her wits, and someone else said, make an end, and a hand grabbed her scalp just as she'd done with jinglebell, and she thought, no, don't, don't cut my hair, ned loves my hair. then the steel was at her throat, and its bite was red and cold. 