a cross the still blue water came the slow steady beat of drums and the soft swish of oars from the galleys. the great cog groaned in their wake, the heavy lines stretched taut between. balerion's sails hung limp, drooping forlorn from the masts. yet even so, as she stood upon the forecastle watching her dragons chase each other across a cloudless blue sky, daenerys targaryen was as happy as she could ever remember being. her dothraki called the sea the poison water, distrusting any liquid that their horses could not drink. on the day the three ships had lifted anchor at qarth, you would have thought they were sailing to hell instead of pentos. her brave young bloodriders had stared off at the dwindling coastline with huge white eyes, each of the three determined to show no fear before the other two, while her handmaids irri and jhiqui clutched the rail desperately and retched over the side at every little swell. the rest of dany's tiny khalasar remained below decks, preferring the company of their nervous horses to the terrifying landless world about the ships. when a sudden squall had enveloped them six days into the voyage, she heard them through the hatches; the horses kicking and screaming, the riders praying in thin quavery voices each time balerion heaved or swayed. no squall could frighten dany, though. daenerys stormborn, she was called, for she had come howling into the world on distant dragonstone as the greatest storm in the memory of westeros howled outside, a storm so fierce that it ripped gargoyles from the castle walls and smashed her father's fleet to kindling. the narrow sea was often stormy, and dany had crossed it half a hundred times as a girl, running from one free city to the next half a step ahead of the usurper's hired knives. she loved the sea. she liked the sharp salty smell of the air, and the vastness of horizons bounded only by a vault of azure sky above. it made her feel small, but free as well. she liked the dolphins that sometimes swam along beside balerion, slicing through the waves like silvery spears, and the flying fish they glimpsed now and again. she even liked the sailors, with all their songs and stories. once on a voyage to braavos, as she'd watched the crew wrestle down a great green sail in a rising gale, she had even thought how fine it would be to be a sailor. but when she told her brother, viserys had twisted her hair until she cried. you are blood of the dragon, he had screamed at her. a dragon, not some smelly fish. he was a fool about that, and so much else, dany thought. if he had been wiser and more patient, it would be him sailing west to take the throne that was his by rights. viserys had been stupid and vicious, she had come to realize, yet sometimes she missed him all the same. not the cruel weak man he had become by the end, but the brother who had sometimes let her creep into his bed, the boy who told her tales of the seven kingdoms, and talked of how much better their lives would be once he claimed his crown. the captain appeared at her elbow. would that this balerion could soar as her namesake did, your grace, he said in bastard valyrian heavily flavored with accents of pentos. then we should not need to row, nor tow, nor pray for wind. just so, captain, she answered with a smile, pleased to have won the man over. captain groleo was an old pentoshi like his master, illyrio mopatis, and he had been nervous as a maiden about carrying three dragons on his ship. haifa hundred buckets of seawater still hung from the gunwales, in case of fires. at first groleo had wanted the dragons caged and dany had consented to put his fears at ease, but their misery was so palpable that she soon changed her mind and insisted they be freed. even captain groleo was glad of that, now. there had been one small fire, easily extinguished; against that, balerion suddenly seemed to have far fewer rats than she'd had before, when she sailed under the name saduleon. and her crew, once as fearful as they were curious, had begun to take a queer fierce pride in their dragons. every man of them, from captain to cook's boy, loved to watch the three fly... though, none so much as dany. they are my children, she told herself, and if the maegi spoke truly, they are the only children i am ever like to have. viserion's scales were the color of fresh cream, his horns, wing bones, and spinal crest a dark gold that flashed bright as metal in the sun. rhaegal was made of the green of summer and the bronze of fall. they soared above the ships in wide circles, higher and higher, each trying to climb above the other. dragons always preferred to attack from above, dany had learned. should either get between the other and the sun, he would fold his wings and dive screaming, and they would tumble from the sky locked together in a tangled scaly ball, jaws snapping and tails lashing. the first time they had done it, she feared that they meant to kill each other, but it was only sport. no sooner would they splash into the sea than they would break apart and rise again, shrieking and hissing, the salt water steaming off them as their wings clawed at the air. drogon was aloft as well, though not in sight; he would be miles ahead, or miles behind, hunting. he was always hungry, her drogon. hungry and growing fast. another year, or perhaps two, and he may be large enough to ride. then i shall have no need of ships to cross the great salt sea. but that time was not yet come. rhaegal and viserion were the size of small dogs, drogon only a little larger, and any dog would have outweighed them; they were all wings and neck and tail, lighter than they looked. and so daenerys targaryen must rely on wood and wind and canvas to bear her home. the wood and the canvas had served her well enough so far, but the fickle wind had turned traitor. for six days and six nights they had been becalmed, and now a seventh day had come, and still no breath of air to fill their sails. fortunately, two of the ships that magister illyrio had sent after her were trading galleys, with two hundred oars apiece and crews of strong-armed oarsmen to row them. but the great cog balerion was a song of a different key; a ponderous broad-beamed sow of a ship with immense holds and huge sails, but helpless in a calm. vhagar and meraxes had let out lines to tow her, but it made for painfully slow going. all three ships were crowded, and heavily laden. i cannot see drogon, said ser jorah mormont as he joined her on the forecastle. is he lost again? we are the ones who are lost, ser. drogon has no taste for this wet creeping, no more than i do. bolder than the other two, her black dragon had been the first to try his wings above the water, the first to flutter from ship to ship, the first to lose himself in a passing cloud... and the first to kill. the flying fish no sooner broke the surface of the water than they were enveloped in a lance of flame, snatched up, and swallowed. how big will he grow? dany asked curiously. do you know? in the seven kingdoms, there are tales of dragons who grew so huge that they could pluck giant krakens from the seas. dany laughed. that would be a wondrous sight to see. it is only a tale, khaleesi, said her exile knight. they talk of wise old dragons living a thousand years as well. well, how long does a dragon live? she looked up as viserion swooped low over the ship, his wings beating slowly and stirring the limp sails. ser jorah shrugged. a dragon's natural span of days is many times as long as a man's, or so the songs would have us believe... but the dragons the seven kingdoms knew best were those of house targaryen. they were bred for war, and in war they died. it is no easy thing to slay a dragon, but it can be done. the squire whitebeard, standing by the figurehead with one lean hand curled about his tall hardwood staff, turned toward them and said, balerion the black dread was two hundred years old when he died during the reign of jaehaerys the conciliator. he was so large he could swallow an aurochs whole. a dragon never stops growing, your grace, so long as he has food and freedom. his name was arstan, but strong belwas had named him whitebeard for his pale whiskers, and most everyone called him that now. he was taller than ser jorah, though not so muscular; his eyes were a pale blue, his long beard as white as snow and as fine as silk. freedom? asked dany, curious. what do you mean? in king's landing, your ancestors raised an immense domed castle for their dragons. the dragonpit, it is called. it still stands atop the hill of rhaenys, though all in ruins now. that was where the royal dragons dwelt in days of yore, and a cavernous dwelling it was, with iron doors so wide that thirty knights could ride through them abreast. yet even so, it was noted that none of the pit dragons ever reached the size of their ancestors. the maesters say it was because of the walls around them, and the great dome above their heads. if walls could keep us small, peasants would all be tiny and kings as large as giants, said ser jorah. i've seen huge men born in hovels, and dwarfs who dwelt in castles. men are men, whitebeard replied. dragons are dragons. ser jorah snorted his disdain. how profound. the exile knight had no love for the old man, he'd made that plain from the first. what do you know of dragons, anyway? little enough, that's true. yet i served for a time in king's landing in the days when king aerys sat the iron throne, and walked beneath the dragonskulls that looked down from the walls of his throne room. viserys talked of those skulls, said dany. the usurper took them down and hid them away. he could not bear them looking down on him upon his stolen throne. she beckoned whitebeard closer. did you ever meet my royal father? king aerys ii had died before his daughter was born. i had that great honor, your grace. did you find him good and gentle? whitebeard did his best to hide his feelings, but they were there, plain on his face. his grace was... often pleasant. often? dany smiled. but not always? he could be very harsh to those he thought his enemies. a wise man never makes an enemy of a king, said dany. did you know my brother rhaegar as well? it was said that no man ever knew prince rhaegar, truly. i had the privilege of seeing him in tourney, though, and often heard him play his harp with its silver strings. ser jorah snorted. along with a thousand others at some harvest feast. next you'll claim you squired for him. i make no such claim, ser. myles mooton was prince rhaegar's squire, and richard lonmouth after him. when they won their spurs, he knighted them himself, and they remained his close companions. young lord connington was dear to the prince as well, but his oldest friend was arthur dayne. the sword of the morning! said dany, delighted. viserys used to talk about his wondrous white blade. he said ser arthur was the only knight in the realm who was our brother's peer. whitebeard bowed his head. it is not my place to question the words of prince viserys. king, dany corrected. he was a king, though he never reigned. viserys, the third of his name. but what do you mean? his answer had not been one that she'd expected. ser jorah named rhaegar the last dragon once. he had to have been a peerless warrior to be called that, surely? your grace, said whitebeard, the prince of dragonstone was a most puissant warrior, but... go on, she urged. you may speak freely to me. as you command. the old man leaned upon his hardwood staff, his brow furrowed. a warrior without peer... those are fine words, your grace, but words win no battles. swords win battles, ser jorah said bluntly. and prince rhaegar knew how to use one. he did, ser, but... i have seen a hundred tournaments and more wars than i would wish, and however strong or fast or skilled a knight may be, there are others who can match him. a man will win one tourney, and fall quickly in the next. a slick spot in the grass may mean defeat, or what you ate for supper the night before. a change in the wind may bring the gift of victory. he glanced at ser jorah. or a lady's favor knotted round an arm. mormont's face darkened. be careful what you say, old man. arstan had seen ser jorah fight at lannisport, dany knew, in the tourney mormont had won with a lady's favor knotted round his arm. he had won the lady too; lynesse of house hightower, his second wife, highborn and beautiful... but she had ruined him, and abandoned him, and the memory of her was bitter to him now. be gentle, my knight. she put a hand on jorah's arm. arstan had no wish to give offense, i'm certain. as you say, khaleesi. ser jorah's voice was grudging. dany turned back to the squire. i know little of rhaegar. only the tales viserys told, and he was a little boy when our brother died. what was he truly like? the old man considered a moment. able. that above all. determined, deliberate, dutiful, single-minded. there is a tale told of him... but doubtless ser jorah knows it as well. i would hear it from you. as you wish, said whitebeard. as a young boy, the prince of dragonstone was bookish to a fault. he was reading so early that men said queen rhaella must have swallowed some books and a candle whilst he was in her womb. rhaegar took no interest in the play of other children. the maesters were awed by his wits, but his father's knights would jest sourly that baelor the blessed had been born again. until one day prince rhaegar found something in his scrolls that changed him. no one knows what it might have been, only that the boy suddenly appeared early one morning in the yard as the knights were donning their steel. he walked up to ser willem darry, the master-at-arms, and said, t will require sword and armor. it seems i must be a warrior. ' and he was! said dany, delighted. he was indeed. whitebeard bowed. my pardons, your grace. we speak of warriors, and i see that strong belwas has arisen. i must attend him. dany glanced aft. the eunuch was climbing through the hold amidships, nimble for all his size. belwas was squat but broad, a good fifteen stone of fat and muscle, his great brown gut crisscrossed by faded white scars. he wore baggy pants, a yellow silk bellyband, and an absurdly tiny leather vest dotted with iron studs. strong belwas is hungry! he roared at everyone and no one in particular. strong belwas will eat now! turning, he spied arstan on the forecastle. whitebeard! you will bring food for strong belwas! you may go, dany told the squire. he bowed again, and moved off to tend the needs of the man he served. ser jorah watched with a frown on his blunt honest face. mormont was big and burly, strong of jaw and thick of shoulder. not a handsome man by any means, but as true a friend as dany had ever known. you would be wise to take that old man's words well salted, he told her when whitebeard was out of earshot. a queen must listen to all, she reminded him. the highborn and the low, the strong and the weak, the noble and the venal. one voice may speak you false, but in many there is always truth to be found. she had read that in a book. hear my voice then, your grace, the exile said. this arstan whitebeard is playing you false. he is too old to be a squire, and too well spoken to be serving that oaf of a eunuch. that does seem queer, dany had to admit. strong belwas was an ex-slave, bred and trained in the fighting pits of meereen. magister illyrio had sent him to guard her, or so belwas claimed, and it was true that she needed guarding. the usurper on his iron throne had offered land and lordship to any man who killed her. one attempt had been made already, with a cup of poisoned wine. the closer she came to westeros, the more likely another attack became. back in qarth, the warlock pyat pree had sent a sorrowful man after her to avenge the undying she'd burned in their house of dust. warlocks never forgot a wrong, it was said, and the sorrowful men never failed to kill. most of the dothraki would be against her as well. khal drogo's kos led khalasars of their own now, and none of them would hesitate to attack her own little band on sight, to slay and slave her people and drag dany herself back to vaes dothrak to take her proper place among the withered crones of the dosh khaleen. she hoped that xaro xhoan daxos was not an enemy, but the qartheen merchant had coveted her dragons. and there was quaithe of the shadow, that strange woman in the red lacquer mask with all her cryptic counsel. was she an enemy too, or only a dangerous friend? dany could not say. ser jorah saved me from the poisoner, and arstan whitebeard from the manticore. perhaps strong belwas will save me from the next. he was huge enough, with arms like small trees and a great curved arakh so sharp he might have shaved with it, in the unlikely event of hair sprouting on those smooth brown cheeks. yet he was childlike as well. as a protector, he leaves much to be desired. thankfully, i have ser jorah and my bloodriders. and my dragons, never forget. in time, the dragons would be her most formidable guardians, just as they had been for aegon the conqueror and his sisters three hundred years ago. just now, though, they brought her more danger than protection. in all the world there were but three living dragons, and those were hers; they were a wonder, and a terror, and beyond price. she was pondering her next words when she felt a cool breath on the back of her neck, and a loose strand of her silver-gold hair stirred against her brow. above, the canvas creaked and moved, and suddenly a great cry went up from all over balerion. wind! the sailors shouted. the wind returns, the wind! dany looked up to where the great cog's sails rippled and belled as the lines thrummed and tightened and sang the sweet song they had missed so for six long days. captain groleo rushed aft, shouting commands. the pentoshi were scrambling up the masts, those that were not cheering. even strong belwas let out a great bellow and did a little dance. the gods are good! dany said. you see, jorah? we are on our way once more. yes, he said, but to what, my queen? all day the wind blew, steady from the east at first, and then in wild gusts. the sun set in a blaze of red. i am still half a world from westeros, dany reminded herself, but every hour brings me closer. she tried to imagine what it would feel like, when she first caught sight of the land she was born to rule. it will be as fair a shore as i have ever seen, i know it. how could it be otherwise? but later that night, as balerion plunged onward through the dark and dany sat cross-legged on her bunk in the captain's cabin, feeding her dragons - even upon the sea, groleo had said, so graciously, queens take precedence over captains - a sharp knock came upon the door. irri had been sleeping at the foot of her bunk (it was too narrow for three, and tonight was jhiqui's turn to share the soft featherbed with her khaleesi), but the handmaid roused at the knock and went to the door. dany pulled up a coverlet and tucked it in under her arms. she was naked, and had not expected a caller at this hour. come, she said when she saw ser jorah standing without, beneath a swaying lantern. the exile knight ducked his head as he entered. your grace. i am sorry to disturb your sleep. i was not sleeping, ser. come and watch. she took a chunk of salt pork out of the bowl in her lap and held it up for her dragons to see. all three of them eyed it hungrily. rhaegal spread green wings and stirred the air, and viserion's neck swayed back and forth like a long pale snake's as he followed the movement of her hand. drogon, dany said softly, dracarys. and she tossed the pork in the air. drogon moved quicker than a striking cobra. flame roared from his mouth, orange and scarlet and black, searing the meat before it began to fall. as his sharp black teeth snapped shut around it, rhaegal's head darted close, as if to steal the prize from his brother's jaws, but drogon swallowed and screamed, and the smaller green dragon could only hiss in frustration. stop that, rhaegal, dany said in annoyance, giving his head a swat. you had the last one. i'll have no greedy dragons. she smiled at ser jorah. i won't need to char their meat over a brazier any longer. so i see. dracarys? all three dragons turned their heads at the sound of that word and viserion let loose with a blast of pale gold flame that made ser jorah take a hasty step backward. dany giggled. be careful with that word, ser, or they're like to singe your beard off. it means 'dragonfire' in high valyrian. i wanted to choose a command that no one was like to utter by chance. mormont nodded. your grace, he said, i wonder if i might have a few private words? of course. irri, leave us for a bit. she put a hand on jhiqui's bare shoulder and shook the other handmaid awake. you as well, sweetling. ser jorah needs to talk to me. yes, khaleesi. jhiqui tumbled from the bunk, naked and yawning, her thick black hair tumbled about her head. she dressed quickly and left with irri, closing the door behind them. dany gave the dragons the rest of the salt pork to squabble over, and patted the bed beside her. sit, good ser, and tell me what is troubling you. three things. ser jorah sat. strong belwas. this arstan whitebeard. and illyrio mopatis, who sent them. again? dany pulled the coverlet higher and tugged one end over her shoulder. and why is that? the warlocks in qarth told you that you would be betrayed three times, the exile knight reminded her, as viserion and rhaegal began to snap and claw at each other. once for blood and once for gold and once for love. dany was not like to forget. mirri maz duur was the first. which means two traitors yet remain... and now these two appear. i find that troubling, yes. never forget, robert offered a lordship to the man who slays you. dany leaned forward and yanked viserion's tail, to pull him off his green brother. her blanket fell away from her chest as she moved. she grabbed it hastily and covered herself again. the usurper is dead, she said. but his son rules in his place. ser jorah lifted his gaze, and his dark eyes met her own. a dutiful son pays his father's debts. even blood debts. this boy joffrey might want me dead... if he recalls that i'm alive. what has that to do with belwas and arstan whitebeard? the old man does not even wear a sword. you've seen that. aye. and i have seen how deftly he handles that staff of his. recall how he killed that manticore in qarth? it might as easily have been your throat he crushed. might have been, but was not, she pointed out. it was a stinging manticore meant to slay me. he saved my life. khaleesi, has it occurred to you that whitebeard and belwas might have been in league with the assassin? it might all have been a ploy to win your trust. her sudden laughter made drogon hiss, and sent viserion flapping to his perch above the porthole. the ploy worked well. the exile knight did not return her smile. these are illyrio's ships, illyrio's captains, illyrio's sailors... and strong belwas and arstan are his men as well, not yours. magister illyrio has protected me in the past. strong belwas says that he wept when he heard my brother was dead. yes, said mormont, but did he weep for viserys, or for the plans he had made with him? his plans need not change. magister illyrio is a friend to house targaryen, and wealthy... he was not born wealthy. in the world as i have seen it, no man grows rich by kindness. the warlocks said the second treason would be for gold. what does illyrio mopatis love more than gold? his skin. across the cabin drogon stirred restlessly, steam rising from his snout. mirri maz duur betrayed me. i burned her for it. mirri maz duur was in your power. in pentos, you shall be in illyrio's power. it is not the same. i know the magister as well as you. he is a devious man, and clever - i need clever men about me if i am to win the iron throne. ser jorah snorted. that wineseller who tried to poison you was a clever man as well. clever men hatch ambitious schemes. dany drew her legs up beneath the blanket. you will protect me. you, and my bloodriders. four men? khaleesi, you believe you know illyrio mopatis, very well. yet you insist on surrounding yourself with men you do not know, like this puffed-up eunuch and the world's oldest squire. take a lesson from pyat free and xaro xhoan daxos. he means well, dany reminded herself. he does all he does for love. it seems to me that a queen who trusts no one is as foolish as a queen who trusts everyone. every man i take into my service is a risk, i understand that, but how am i to win the seven kingdoms without such risks? am i to conquer westeros with one exile knight and three dothraki bloodriders? his jaw set stubbornly. your path is dangerous, i will not deny that. but if you blindly trust in every liar and schemer who crosses it, you will end as your brothers did. his obstinacy made her angry. he treats me like some child. strong belwas could not scheme his way to breakfast. and what lies has arstan whitebeard told me? he is not what he pretends to be. he speaks to you more boldly than any squire would dare. he spoke frankly at my command. he knew my brother. a great many men knew your brother. your grace, in westeros the lord commander of the kingsguard sits on the small council, and serves the king with his wits as well as his steel. if i am the first of your queensguard, i pray you, hear me out. i have a plan to put to you. what plan? tell me. illyrio mopatis wants you back in pentos, under his roof. very well, go to him... but in your own time, and not alone. let us see how loyal and obedient these new subjects of yours truly are. command groleo to change course for slaver's bay. dany was not certain she liked the sound of that at all. everything she'd ever heard of the flesh marts in the great slave cities of yunkai, meereen, and astapor was dire and frightening. what is there for me in slaver's bay? an army, said ser jorah. if strong belwas is so much to your liking you can buy hundreds more like him out of the fighting pits of meereen... but it is astapor i'd set my sails for. in astapor you can buy unsullied. the slaves in the spiked bronze hats? dany had seen unsullied guards in the free cities, posted at the gates of magisters, archons, and dynasts. why should i want unsullied? they don't even ride horses, and most of them are fat. the unsullied you may have seen in pentos and myr were household guards. that's soft service, and eunuchs tend to plumpness in any case. food is the only vice allowed them. to judge all unsullied by a few old household slaves is like judging all squires by arstan whitebeard, your grace. do you know the tale of the three thousand of qohor? no. the coverlet slipped off dany's shoulder, and she tugged it back into place. it was four hundred years ago or more, when the dothraki first rode out of the east, sacking and burning every town and city in their path. the khal who led them was named temmo. his khalasar was not so big as drogo's, but it was big enough. fifty thousand, at the least. half of them braided warriors with bells ringing in their hair. the qohorik knew he was coming. they strengthened their walls, doubled the size of their own guard, and hired two free companies besides, the bright banners and the second sons. and almost as an afterthought, they sent a man to astapor to buy three thousand unsullied. it was a long march back to qohor, however, and as they approached they saw the smoke and dust and heard the distant din of battle. by the time the unsullied reached the city the sun had set. crows and wolves were feasting beneath the walls on what remained of the qohorik heavy horse. the bright banners and second sons had fled, as sellswords are wont to do in the face of hopeless odds. with dark falling, the dothraki had retired to their own camps to drink and dance and feast, but none doubted that they would return on the morrow to smash the city gates, storm the walls, and rape, loot, and slave as they pleased. but when dawn broke and temmo and his bloodriders led their khalasar out of camp, they found three thousand unsullied drawn up before the gates with the black goat standard flying over their heads. so small a force could easily have been flanked, but you know dothraki. these were men on foot, and men on foot are fit only to be ridden down. the dothraki charged. the unsullied locked their shields, lowered their spears, and stood firm. against twenty thousand screamers with bells in their hair, they stood firm. eighteen times the dothraki charged, and broke themselves on those shields and spears like waves on a rocky shore. thrice temmo sent his archers wheeling past and arrows fell like rain upon the three thousand, but the unsullied merely lifted their shields above their heads until the squall had passed. in the end only six hundred of them remained... but more than twelve thousand dothraki lay dead upon that field, including khal temmo, his bloodriders, his kos, and all his sons. on the morning of the fourth day, the new khal led the survivors past the city gates in a stately procession. one by one, each man cut off his braid and threw it down before the feet of the three thousand. since that day, the city guard of qohor has been made up solely of unsullied, every one of whom carries a tall spear from which hangs a braid of human hair. that is what you will find in astapor, your grace. put ashore there, and continue on to pentos overland. it will take longer, yes... but when you break bread with magister illyrio, you will have a thousand swords behind you, not just four. there is wisdom in this, yes, dany thought, but... how am i to buy a thousand slave soldiers? all i have of value is the crown the tourmaline brotherhood gave me. dragons will be as great a wonder in astapor as they were in qarth. it may be that the slavers will shower you with gifts, as the qartheen did. if not... these ships carry more than your dothraki and their horses. they took on trade goods at qarth, i've been through the holds and seen for myself. bolts of silk and bales of tiger skin, amber and jade carvings, saffron, myrrh... slaves are cheap, your grace. tiger skins are costly. those are illyrio 's tiger skins, she objected. and illyrio is a friend to house targaryen. all the more reason not to steal his goods. what use are wealthy friends if they will not put their wealth at your disposal, my queen? if magister illyrio would deny you, he is only xaro xhoan daxos with four chins. and if he is sincere in his devotion to your cause, he will not begrudge you three shiploads of trade goods. what better use for his tiger skins than to buy you the beginnings of an army? that's true. dany felt a rising excitement. there will be dangers on such a long march... there are dangers at sea as well. corsairs and pirates hunt the southern route, and north of valyria the smoking sea is demon-haunted. the next storm could sink or scatter us, a kraken could pull us under... or we might find ourselves becalmed again, and die of thirst as we wait for the wind to rise. a march will have different dangers, my queen, but none greater. what if captain groleo refuses to change course, though? and arstan, strong belwas, what will they do? ser jorah stood. perhaps it's time you found that out. yes, she decided. i'll do it! dany threw back the coverlets and hopped from the bunk. i'll see the captain at once, command him to set course for astapor. she bent over her chest, threw open the lid, and seized the first garment to hand, a pair of loose sandsilk trousers. hand me my medallion belt, she commanded jorah as she pulled the sandsilk up over her hips. and my vest - she started to say, turning. ser jorah slid his arms around her. oh, was all dany had time to say as he pulled her close and pressed his lips down on hers. he smelled of sweat and salt and leather, and the iron studs on his jerkin dug into her naked breasts as he crushed her hard against him. one hand held her by the shoulder while the other slid down her spine to the small of her back, and her mouth opened for his tongue, though she never told it to. his beard is scratchy, she thought, but his mouth is sweet. the dothraki wore no beards, only long mustaches, and only khal drogo had ever kissed her before. he should not be doing this. i am his queen, not his woman. it was a long kiss, though how long dany could not have said. when it ended, ser jorah let go of her, and she took a quick step backward. you... you should not have... i should not have waited so long, he finished for her. i should have kissed you in qarth, in vaes tolorro. i should have kissed you in the red waste, every night and every day. you were made to be kissed, often and well. his eyes were on her breasts. dany covered them with her hands, before her nipples could betray her. i... that was not fitting. i am your queen. my queen, he said, and the bravest, sweetest, and most beautiful woman i have ever seen. daenerys - your grace! your grace, he conceded, the dragon has three heads, remember? you have wondered at that, ever since you heard it from the warlocks in the house of dust. well, here's your meaning: balerion, meraxes, and vhagar, ridden by aegon, rhaenys, and visenya. the three-headed dragon of house targaryen - three dragons, and three riders. yes, said dany, but my brothers are dead. rhaenys and visenya were aegon's wives as well as his sisters. you have no brothers, but you can take husbands. and i tell you truly, daenerys, there is no man in all the world who will ever be half so true to you as me. in the center of the plaza of pride stood a red brick fountain whose waters smelled of brimstone, and in the center of the fountain a monstrous harpy made of hammered bronze. twenty feet tall she reared. she had a woman's face, with gilded hair, ivory eyes, and pointed ivory teeth. water gushed yellow from her heavy breasts. but in place of arms she had the wings of a bat or a dragon, her legs were the legs of an eagle, and behind she wore a scorpion's curled and venomous tail. the harpy of ghis, dany thought. old ghis had fallen five thousand years ago, if she remembered true; its legions shattered by the might of young valyria, its brick walls pulled down, its streets and buildings turned to ash and cinder by dragonflame, its very fields sown with salt, sulfur, and skulls. the gods of ghis were dead, and so too its people; these astapori were mongrels, ser jorah said. even the ghiscari tongue was largely forgotten; the slave cities spoke the high valyrian of their conquerors, or what they had made of it. yet the symbol of the old empire still endured here, though this bronze monster had a heavy chain dangling from her talons, an open manacle at either end. the harpy of ghis had a thunderbolt in her claws. this is the harpy of astapor. tell the westerosi whore to lower her eyes, the slaver kraznys mo nakloz complained to the slave girl who spoke for him. i deal in meat, not metal. the bronze is not for sale. tell her to look at the soldiers. even the dim purple eyes of a sunset savage can see how magnificent my creatures are, surely. kraznys 's high valyrian was twisted and thickened by the characteristic growl of ghis, and flavored here and there with words of slaver argot. dany understood him well enough, but she smiled and looked blankly at the slave girl, as if wondering what he might have said. the good master kraznys asks, are they not magnificent? the girl spoke the common tongue well, for one who had never been to westeros. no older than ten, she had the round flat face, dusky skin, and golden eyes of naath. the peaceful people, her folk were called. all agreed that they made the best slaves. they might be adequate to my needs, dany answered. it had been ser jorah's suggestion that she speak only dothraki and the common tongue while in astapor. my bear is more clever than he looks. tell me of their training. the westerosi woman is pleased with them, but speaks no praise, to keep the price down, the translator told her master. she wishes to know how they were trained. kraznys mo nakloz bobbed his head. he smelled as if he'd bathed in raspberries, this slaver, and his jutting red-black beard glistened with oil. he has larger breasts than i do, dany reflected. she could see them through the thin sea-green silk of the gold-fringed tokar he wound about his body and over one shoulder. his left hand held the tokar in place as he walked, while his right clasped a short leather whip. are all westerosi pigs so ignorant? he complained. all the world knows that the unsullied are masters of spear and shield and shortsword. he gave dany a broad smile. tell her what she would know, slave, and be quick about it. the day is hot. that much at least is no lie. a matched pair of slave girls stood behind them, holding a striped silk awning over their heads, but even in the shade dany felt light-headed, and kraznys was perspiring freely. the plaza of pride had been baking in the sun since dawn. even through the thickness of her sandals, she could feel the warmth of the red bricks underfoot. waves of heat rose off them shimmering to make the stepped pyramids of astapor around the plaza seem half a dream. if the unsullied felt the heat, however, they gave no hint of it. they could be made of brick themselves, the way they stand there. a thousand had been marched out of their barracks for her inspection; drawn up in ten ranks of one hundred before the fountain and its great bronze harpy, they stood stiffly at attention, their stony eyes fixed straight ahead. they wore nought but white linen clouts knotted about their loins, and conical bronze helms topped with a sharpened spike a foot tall. kraznys had commanded them to lay down their spears and shields, and doff their swordbelts and quilted tunics, so the queen of westeros might better inspect the lean hardness of their bodies. they are chosen young, for size and speed and strength, the slave told her. they begin their training at five. every day they train from dawn to dusk, until they have mastered the shortsword, the shield, and the three spears. the training is most rigorous, your grace. only one boy in three survives it. this is well known. among the unsullied it is said that on the day they win their spiked cap, the worst is done with, for no duty that will ever fall to them could be as hard as their training. kraznys mo nakloz supposedly spoke no word of the common tongue, but he bobbed his head as he listened, and from time to time gave the slave girl a poke with the end of his lash. tell her that these have been standing here for a day and a night, with no food nor water. tell her that they will stand until they drop if i should command it, and when nine hundred and ninety- nine have collapsed to die upon the bricks, the last will stand there still, and never move until his own death claims him. such is their courage. tell her that. i call that madness, not courage, said arstan whitebeard, when the solemn little scribe was done. he tapped the end of his hardwood staff against the bricks, tap tap, as if to tell his displeasure. the old man had not wanted to sail to astapor; nor did he favor buying this slave army. a queen should hear all sides before reaching a decision. that was why dany had brought him with her to the plaza of pride, not to keep her safe. her bloodriders would do that well enough. ser jorah mormont she had left aboard balerion to guard her people and her dragons. much against her inclination, she had locked the dragons belowdecks. it was too dangerous to let them fly freely over the city; the world was all too full of men who would gladly kill them for no better reason than to name themselves dragonslayer. what did the smelly old man say? the slaver demanded of his translator. when she told him, he smiled and said, inform the savages that we call this obedience. others may be stronger or quicker or larger than the unsullied. some few may even equal their skill with sword and spear and shield. but nowhere between the seas will you ever find any more obedient. sheep are obedient, said arstan when the words had been translated. he had some valyrian as well, though not so much as dany, but like her he was feigning ignorance. kraznys mo nakloz showed his big white teeth when that was rendered back to him. a word from me and these sheep would spill his stinking old bowels on the bricks, he said, but do not say that. tell them that these creatures are more dogs than sheep. do they eat dogs or horse in these seven kingdoms? they prefer pigs and cows, your worship. beef. pfag. food for unwashed savages. ignoring them all, dany walked slowly down the line of slave soldiers. the girls followed close behind with the silk awning, to keep her in the shade, but the thousand men before her enjoyed no such protection. more than half had the copper skins and almond eyes of dothraki and lhazerene, but she saw men of the free cities in the ranks as well, along with pale qartheen, ebon-faced summer islanders, and others whose origins she could not guess. and some had skins of the same amber hue as kraznys mo nakloz, and the bristly red-black hair that marked the ancient folk of ghis, who named themselves the harpy's sons. they sell even their own kind. it should not have surprised her. the dothraki did the same, when khalasar met khalasar in the sea of grass. some of the soldiers were tall and some were short. they ranged in age from fourteen to twenty, she judged. their cheeks were smooth, and their eyes all the same, be they black or brown or blue or grey or amber. they are like one man, dany thought, until she remembered that they were no men at all. the unsullied were eunuchs, every one of them. why do you cut them? she asked kraznys through the slave girl. whole men are stronger than eunuchs, i have always heard. a eunuch who is cut young will never have the brute strength of one of your westerosi knights, this is true, said kraznys mo nakloz when the question was put to him. a bull is strong as well, but bulls die every day in the fighting pits. a girl of nine killed one not three days past in jo thief s pit. the unsullied have something better than strength, tell her. they have discipline. we fight in the fashion of the old empire, yes. they are the lockstep legions of old ghis come again, absolutely obedient, absolutely loyal, and utterly without fear. dany listened patiently to the translation. even the bravest men fear death and maiming, arstan said when the girl was done. kraznys smiled again when he heard that. tell the old man that he smells of piss, and needs a stick to hold him up. truly, your worship? he poked her with his lash. no, not truly, are you a girl or a goat, to ask such folly? say that unsullied are not men. say that death means nothing to them, and maiming less than nothing. he stopped before a thickset man who had the look of lhazar about him and brought his whip up sharply, laying a line of blood across one copper cheek. the eunuch blinked, and stood there, bleeding. would you like another? asked kraznys. if it please your worship. it was hard to pretend not to understand. dany laid a hand on kraznys's arm before he could raise the whip again. tell the good master that i see how strong his unsullied are, and how bravely they suffer pain. kraznys chuckled when he heard her words in valyrian. tell this ignorant whore of a westerner that courage has nothing to do with it. the good master says that was not courage, your grace. tell her to open those slut's eyes of hers. he begs you attend this carefully, your grace. kraznys moved to the next eunuch in line, a towering youth with the blue eyes and flaxen hair of lys. your sword, he said. the eunuch knelt, unsheathed the blade, and offered it up hilt first. it was a shortsword, made more for stabbing than for slashing, but the edge looked razor- sharp. stand, kraznys commanded. your worship. the eunuch stood, and kraznys mo nakloz slid the sword slowly up his torso, leaving a thin red line across his belly and between his ribs. then he jabbed the swordpoint in beneath a wide pink nipple and began to work it back and forth. what is he doing? dany demanded of the girl, as the blood ran down the man's chest. tell the cow to stop her bleating, said kraznys, without waiting for the translation. this will do him no great harm. men have no need of nipples, eunuchs even less so. the nipple hung by a thread of skin. he slashed, and sent it tumbling to the bricks, leaving behind a round red eye copiously weeping blood. the eunuch did not move, until kraznys offered him back his sword, hilt first. here, i'm done with you. this one is pleased to have served you. kraznys turned back to dany. they feel no pain, you see. how can that be? she demanded through the scribe. the wine of courage, was the answer he gave her. it is no true wine at all, but made from deadly nightshade, bloodily larva, black lotus root, and many secret things. they drink it with every meal from the day they are cut, and with each passing year feel less and less. it makes them fearless in battle. nor can they be tortured. tell the savage her secrets are safe with the unsullied. she may set them to guard her councils and even her bedchamber, and never a worry as to what they might overhear. in yunkai and meereen, eunuchs are often made by removing a boy's testicles, but leaving the penis. such a creature is infertile, yet often still capable of erection. only trouble can come of this. we remove the penis as well, leaving nothing. the unsullied are the purest creatures on the earth. he gave dany and arstan another of his broad white smiles. i have heard that in the sunset kingdoms men take solemn vows to keep chaste and father no children, but live only for their duty. is it not so? it is, arstan said, when the question was put. there are many such orders. the maesters of the citadel, the septons and septas who serve the seven, the silent sisters of the dead, the kingsguard and the night's watch... poor things, growled the slaver, after the translation. men were not made to live thus. their days are a torment of temptation, any fool must see, and no doubt most succumb to their baser selves. not so our unsullied. they are wed to their swords in a way that your sworn brothers cannot hope to match. no woman can ever tempt them, nor any man. his girl conveyed the essence of his speech, more politely. there are other ways to tempt men, besides the flesh, arstan whitebeard objected, when she was done. men, yes, but not unsullied. plunder interests them no more than rape. they own nothing but their weapons. we do not even permit them names. no names? dany frowned at the little scribe. can that be what the good master said? they have no names? it is so, your grace. kraznys stopped in front of a ghiscari who might have been his taller fitter brother, and flicked his lash at a small bronze disk on the swordbelt at his feet. there is his name. ask the whore of westeros whether she can read ghiscari glyphs. when dany admitted that she could not, the slaver turned to the unsullied. what is your name? he demanded. this one's name is red flea, your worship. the girl repeated their exchange in the common tongue. and yesterday, what was it? black rat, your worship. the day before? brown flea, your worship. before that? this one does not recall, your worship. blue toad, perhaps. or blue worm. tell her all their names are such, kraznys commanded the girl. it reminds them that by themselves they are vermin. the name disks are thrown in an empty cask at duty's end, and each dawn plucked up again at random. more madness, said arstan, when he heard. how can any man possibly remember a new name every day? those who cannot are culled in training, along with those who cannot run all day in full pack, scale a mountain in the black of night, walk across a bed of coals, or slay an infant. dany's mouth surely twisted at that. did he see, or is he blind as well as cruel? she turned away quickly, trying to keep her face a mask until she heard the translation. only then did she allow herself to say, whose infants do they slay? to win his spiked cap, an unsullied must go to the slave marts with a silver mark, find some wailing newborn, and kill it before its mother's eyes. in this way, we make certain that there is no weakness left in them. she was feeling faint. the heat, she tried to tell herself. you take a babe from its mother's arms, kill it as she watches, and pay for her pain with a silver coin? when the translation was made for him, kraznys mo nakloz laughed aloud. what a soft mewling fool this one is. tell the whore of westeros that the mark is for the child's owner, not the mother. the unsullied are not permitted to steal. he tapped his whip against his leg. tell her that few ever fail that test. the dogs are harder for them, it must be said. we give each boy a puppy on the day that he is cut. at the end of the first year, he is required to strangle it. any who cannot are killed, and fed to the surviving dogs. it makes for a good strong lesson, we find. arstan whitebeard tapped the end of his staff on the bricks as he listened to that. tap tap tap. slow and steady. tap tap tap. dany saw him turn his eyes away, as if he could not bear to look at kraznys any longer. the good master has said that these eunuchs cannot be tempted with coin or flesh, dany told the girl, but if some enemy of mine should offer them freedom for betraying me... they would kill him out of hand and bring her his head, tell her that, the slaver answered. other slaves may steal and hoard up silver in hopes of buying freedom, but an unsullied would not take it if the little mare offered it as a gift. they have no life outside their duty. they are soldiers, and that is all. it is soldiers i need, dany admitted. tell her it is well she came to astapor, then. ask her how large an army she wishes to buy. how many unsullied do you have to sell? eight thousand fully trained and available at present. we sell them only by the unit, she should know. by the thousand or the century. once we sold by the ten, as household guards, but that proved unsound. ten is too few. they mingle with other slaves, even freemen, and forget who and what they are. kraznys waited for that to be rendered in the common tongue, and then continued. this beggar queen must understand, such wonders do not come cheaply. in yunkai and meereen, slave swordsmen can be had for less than the price of their swords, but unsullied are the finest foot in all the world, and each represents many years of training. tell her they are like valyrian steel, folded over and over and hammered for years on end, until they are stronger and more resilient than any metal on earth. i know of valyrian steel, said dany. ask the good master if the unsullied have their own officers. you must set your own officers over them. we train them to obey, not to think. if it is wits she wants, let her buy scribes. and their gear? sword, shield, spear, sandals, and quilted tunic are included, said kraznys. and the spiked caps, to be sure. they will wear such armor as you wish, but you must provide it. dany could think of no other questions. she looked at arstan. you have lived long in the world, whitebeard. now that you have seen them, what do you say? i say no, your grace, the old man answered at once. why? she asked. speak freely. dany thought she knew what he would say, but she wanted the slave girl to hear, so kraznys mo nakloz might hear later. my queen, said arstan, there have been no slaves in the seven kingdoms for thousands of years. the old gods and the new alike hold slavery to be an abomination. evil. if you should land in westeros at the head of a slave army, many good men will oppose you for no other reason than that. you will do great harm to your cause, and to the honor of your house. yet i must have some army, dany said. the boy joffrey will not give me the iron throne for asking politely. when the day comes that you raise your banners, half of westeros will be with you, whitebeard promised. your brother rhaegar is still remembered, with great love. and my father? dany said. the old man hesitated before saying, king aerys is also remembered. he gave the realm many years of peace. your grace, you have no need of slaves. magister illyrio can keep you safe while your dragons grow, and send secret envoys across the narrow sea on your behalf, to sound out the high lords for your cause. those same high lords who abandoned my father to the kingslayer and bent the knee to robert the usurper? even those who bent their knees may yearn in their hearts for the return of the dragons. may, said dany. that was such a slippery word, may. in any language. she turned back to kraznys mo nakloz and his slave girl. i must consider carefully. the slaver shrugged. tell her to consider quickly. there are many other buyers. only three days past i showed these same unsullied to a corsair king who hopes to buy them all. the corsair wanted only a hundred, your worship, dany heard the slave girl say. he poked her with the end of the whip. corsairs are all liars. he'll buy them all. tell her that, girl. dany knew she would take more than a hundred, if she took any at all. remind your good master of who i am. remind him that i am daenerys stormborn, mother of dragons, the unburnt, trueborn queen of the seven kingdoms of westeros. my blood is the blood of aegon the conqueror, and of old valyria before him. yet her words did not move the plump perfumed slaver, even when rendered in his own ugly tongue. old ghis ruled an empire when the valyrians were still fucking sheep, he growled at the poor little scribe, land we are the sons of the harpy. he gave a shrug. my tongue is wasted wagging at women. east or west, it makes no matter, they cannot decide until they have been pampered and flattered and stuffed with sweetmeats. well, if this is my fate, so be it. tell the whore that if she requires a guide to our sweet city, kraznys mo nakloz will gladly serve her... and service her as well, if she is more woman than she looks. good master kraznys would be most pleased to show you astapor while you ponder, your grace, the translator said. i will feed her jellied dog brains, and a fine rich stew of red octopus and unborn puppy. he wiped his lips. many delicious dishes can be had here, he says. tell her how pretty the pyramids are at night, the slaver growled. tell her i will lick honey off her breasts, or allow her to lick honey off mine if she prefers. astapor is most beautiful at dusk, your grace, said the slave girl. the good masters light silk lanterns on every terrace, so all the pyramids glow with colored lights. pleasure barges ply the worm, playing soft music and calling at the little islands for food and wine and other delights. ask her if she wishes to view our fighting pits, kraznys added. douquor's pit has a fine folly scheduled for the evening. a bear and three small boys. one boy will be rolled in honey, one in blood, and one in rotting fish, and she may wager on which the bear will eat first. tap tap tap, dany heard. arstan whitebeard's face was still, but his staff beat out his rage. tap tap tap. she made herself smile. i have my own bear on balerion, she told the translator, and he may well eat me if i do not return to him. see, said kraznys when her words were translated. it is not the woman who decides, it is this man she runs to. as ever! thank the good master for his patient kindness, dany said, and tell him that i will think on all i learned here. she gave her arm to arstan whitebeard, to lead her back across the plaza to her litter. aggo and jhogo fell in to either side of them, walking with the bowlegged swagger all the horselords affected when forced to dismount and stride the earth like common mortals. dany climbed into her litter frowning, and beckoned arstan to climb in beside her. a man as old as him should not be walking in such heat. she did not close the curtains as they got under way. with the sun beating down so fiercely on this city of red brick, every stray breeze was to be cherished, even if it did come with a swirl of fine red dust. besides, i need to see. astapor was a queer city, even to the eyes of one who had walked within the house of dust and bathed in the womb of the world beneath the mother of mountains. all the streets were made of the same red brick that had paved the plaza. so too were the stepped pyramids, the deep-dug fighting pits with their rings of descending seats, the sulfurous fountains and gloomy wine caves, and the ancient walls that encircled them. so many bricks, she thought, and so old and crumbling. their fine red dust was everywhere, dancing down the gutters at each gust of wind. small wonder so many astapori women veiled their faces; the brick dust stung the eyes worse than sand. make way! jhogo shouted as he rode before her litter. make way for the mother of dragons! but when he uncoiled the great silverhandled whip that dany had given him, and made to crack it in the air, she leaned out and told him nay. not in this place, blood of my blood, she said, in his own tongue. these bricks have heard too much of the sound of whips. the streets had been largely deserted when they had set out from the port that morning, and scarcely seemed more crowded now. an elephant lumbered past with a latticework litter on its back. a naked boy with peeling skin sat in a dry brick gutter, picking his nose and staring sullenly at some ants in the street. he lifted his head at the sound of hooves, and gaped as a column of mounted guards trotted by in a cloud of red dust and brittle laughter. the copper disks sewn to their cloaks of yellow silk glittered like so many suns, but their tunics were embroidered linen, and below the waist they wore sandals and pleated linen skirts. bareheaded, each man had teased and oiled and twisted his stiff red-black hair into some fantastic shape, horns and wings and blades and even grasping hands, so they looked like some troupe of demons escaped from the seventh hell. the naked boy watched them for a bit, along with dany, but soon enough they were gone, and he went back to his ants, and a knuckle up his nose. an old city, this, she reflected, but not so populous as it was in its glory, nor near so crowded as qarth or pentos or lys. her litter came to a sudden halt at the cross street, to allow a coffle of slaves to shuffle across her path, urged along by the crack of an overseer's lash. these were no unsullied, dany noted, but a more common sort of men, with pale brown skins and black hair. there were women among them, but no children. all were naked. two astapori rode behind them on white asses, a man in a red silk tokar and a veiled woman in sheer blue linen decorated with flakes of lapis lazuli. in her red-black hair she wore an ivory comb. the man laughed as he whispered to her, paying no more mind to dany than to his slaves, nor the overseer with his twisted five-thonged lash, a squat broad dothraki who had the harpy and chains tattooed proudly across his muscular chest. bricks and blood built astapor, whitebeard murmured at her side, and bricks and blood her people. what is that? dany asked him, curious. an old rhyme a maester taught me, when i was a boy. i never knew how true it was. the bricks of astapor are red with the blood of the slaves who make them. i can well believe that, said dany. then leave this place before your heart turns to brick as well. sail this very night, on the evening tide. would that i could, thought dany. when i leave astapor it must be with an army, ser jorah says. ser jorah was a slaver himself, your grace, the old man reminded her. there are sellswords in pentos and myr and tyrosh you can hire. a man who kills for coin has no honor, but at least they are no slaves. find your army there, i beg you. my brother visited pentos, myr, braavos, near all the free cities. the magisters and archons fed him wine and promises, but his soul was starved to death. a man cannot sup from the beggar's bowl all his life and stay a man. i had my taste in qarth, that was enough. i will not come to pentos bowl in hand. better to come a beggar than a slaver, arstan said. there speaks one who has been neither. dany's nostrils flared. do you know what it is like to be sold, squire? i do. my brother sold me to khal drogo for the promise of a golden crown. well, drogo crowned him in gold, though not as he had wished, and i... my sun-and-stars made a queen of me, but if he had been a different man, it might have been much otherwise. do you think i have forgotten how it felt to be afraid? whitebeard bowed his head. your grace, i did not mean to give offense. only lies offend me, never honest counsel. dany patted arstan's spotted hand to reassure him. i have a dragon's temper, that's all. you must not let it frighten you. i shall try and remember. whitebeard smiled. he has a good face, and great strength to him, dany thought. she could not understand why ser jo rah mistrusted the old man so. could he be jealous that i have found another man to talk to? unbidden, her thoughts went back to the night on balerion when the exile knight had kissed her. he should never have done that. he is thrice my age, and of too low a birth for me, and i never gave him leave. no true knight would ever kiss a queen without her leave. she had taken care never to be alone with ser jorah after that, keeping her handmaids with her aboard ship, and sometimes her bloodriders. he wants to kiss me again, i see it in his eyes. what dany wanted she could not begin to say, but jorah' s kiss had woken something in her, something that been sleeping since khal drogo died. lying abed in her narrow bunk, she found herself wondering how it would be to have a man squeezed in beside her in place of her handmaid, and the thought was more exciting than it should have been. sometimes she would close her eyes and dream of him, but it was never jorah mormont she dreamed of; her lover was always younger and more comely, though his face remained a shifting shadow. once, so tormented she could not sleep, dany slid a hand down between her legs, and gasped when she felt how wet she was. scarce daring to breathe, she moved her fingers back and forth between her lower lips, slowly so as not to wake irri beside her, until she found one sweet spot and lingered there, touching herself lightly, timidly at first and then faster. still, the relief she wanted seemed to recede before her, until her dragons stirred, and one screamed out across the cabin, and irri woke and saw what she was doing. dany knew her face was flushed, but in the darkness irri surely could not tell. wordless, the handmaid put a hand on her breast, then bent to take a nipple in her mouth. her other hand drifted down across the soft curve of belly, through the mound of fine silvery-gold hair, and went to work between dany's thighs. it was no more than a few moments until her legs twisted and her breasts heaved and her whole body shuddered. she screamed then. or perhaps that was drogon. irri never said a thing, only curled back up and went back to sleep the instant the thing was done. the next day, it all seemed a dream. and what did ser jorah have to do with it, if anything? it is drogo i want, my sun-and-stars, dany reminded herself. not irri, and not ser jorah, only drogo. drogo was dead, though. she'd thought these feelings had died with him there in the red waste, but one treacherous kiss had somehow brought them back to life. he should never have kissed me. he presumed too much, and i permitted it. it must never happen again. she set her mouth grimly and gave her head a shake, and the bell in her braid chimed softly. closer to the bay, the city presented a fairer face. the great brick pyramids lined the shore, the largest four hundred feet high. all manner of trees and vines and flowers grew on their broad terraces, and the winds that swirled around them smelled green and fragrant. another gigantic harpy stood atop the gate, this one made of baked red clay and crumbling visibly, with no more than a stub of her scorpion's tail remaining. the chain she grasped in her clay claws was old iron, rotten with rust. it was cooler down by the water, though. the lapping of the waves against the rotting pilings made a curiously soothing sound. aggo helped dany down from her litter. strong belwas was seated on a massive piling, eating a great haunch of brown roasted meat. dog, he said happily when he saw dany. good dog in astapor, little queen. eat? he offered it with a greasy grin. that is kind of you, belwas, but no. dany had eaten dog in other places, at other times, but just now all she could think of was the unsullied and their stupid puppies. she swept past the huge eunuch and up the plank onto the deck of balerion. ser jorah mormont stood waiting for her. your grace, he said, bowing his head. the slavers have come and gone. three of them, with a dozen scribes and as many slaves to lift and fetch. they crawled over every foot of our holds and made note of all we had. he walked her aft. how many men do they have for sale? none. was it mormont she was angry with, or this city with its sullen heat, its stinks and sweats and crumbling bricks? they sell eunuchs, not men. eunuchs made of brick, like the rest of astapor. shall i buy eight thousand brick eunuchs with dead eyes that never move, who kill suckling babes for the sake of a spiked hat and strangle their own dogs? they don't even have names. so don't call them men, ser. khaleesi, he said, taken aback by her fury, the unsullied are chosen as boys, and trained - i have heard all i care to of their training. dany could feel tears welling in her eyes, sudden and unwanted. her hand flashed up and cracked ser jorah hard across the face. it was either that, or cry. mormont touched the cheek she'd slapped. if i have displeased my queen - you have. you've displeased me greatly, ser. if you were my true knight, you would never have brought me to this vile sty. if you were my true knight, you would never have kissed me, or looked at my breasts the way you did, or... as your grace commands. i shall tell captain groleo to make ready to sail on the evening tide, for some sty less vile. no, said dany. groleo watched them from the forecastle, and his crew was watching too. whitebeard, her bloodriders, jhiqui, everyone had stopped what they were doing at the sound of the slap. i want to sail now, not on the tide, i want to sail far and fast and never look back. but i can't, can i? there are eight thousand brick eunuchs for sale, and i must find some way to buy them. and with that she left him, and went below. behind the carved wooden door of the captain's cabin, her dragons were restless. drogon raised his head and screamed, pale smoke venting from his nostrils, and viserion flapped at her and tried to perch on her shoulder, as he had when he was smaller. no, dany said, trying to shrug him off gently. you're too big for that now, sweetling. but the dragon coiled his white and gold tail around one arm and dug black claws into the fabric of her sleeve, clinging tightly. helpless, she sank into groleo 's great leather chair, giggling. they have been wild while you were gone, khaleesi, irri told her. viserion clawed splinters from the door, do you see? and drogon made to escape when the slaver men came to see them. when i grabbed his tail to hold him back, he turned and bit me. she showed dany the marks of his teeth on her hand. did any of them try to burn their way free? that was the thing that frightened dany the most. no, khaleesi. drogon breathed his fire, but in the empty air. the slaver men feared to come near him. she kissed irri's hand where drogon had bitten it. i'm sorry he hurt you. dragons are not meant to be locked up in a small ship's cabin. dragons are like horses in this, irri said. and riders, too. the horses scream below, khaleesi, and kick at the wooden walls. i hear them. and jhiqui says the old women and the little ones scream too, when you are not here. they do not like this water cart. they do not like the black salt sea. i know, dany said. i do, i know. my khaleesi is sad? yes, dany admitted. sad and lost. should i pleasure the khaleesi? dany stepped away from her. no. irri, you do not need to do that. what happened that night, when you woke... you're no bed slave, i freed you, remember? you... i am handmaid to the mother of dragons, the girl said. it is great honor to please my khaleesi. i don't want that, she insisted. i don't. she turned away sharply. leave me now. i want to be alone. to think. dusk had begun to settle over the waters of slaver's bay before dany returned to the deck. she stood by the rail and looked out over astapor. from here it looks almost beautiful, she thought. the stars were coming out above, and the silk lanterns below, just as kraznys's translator had promised. the brick pyramids were all glimmery with light. but it is dark below, in the streets and plazas and fighting pits. and it is darkest of all in the barracks, where some little boy is feeding scraps to the puppy they gave him when they took away his manhood. there was a soft step behind her. khaleesi. his voice. might i speak frankly? dany did not turn. she could not bear to look at him just now. if she did, she might well slap him again. or cry. or kiss him. and never know which was right and which was wrong and which was madness. say what you will, ser. when aegon the dragon stepped ashore in westeros, the kings of vale and rock and reach did not rush to hand him their crowns. if you mean to sit his iron throne, you must win it as he did, with steel and dragonfire. and that will mean blood on your hands before the thing is done. blood and fire, thought dany. the words of house targaryen. she had known them all her life. the blood of my enemies i will shed gladly. the blood of innocents is another matter. eight thousand unsullied they would offer me. eight thousand dead babes. eight thousand strangled dogs. your grace, said jo rah mormont, i saw king's landing after the sack. babes were butchered that day as well, and old men, and children at play. more women were raped than you can count. there is a savage beast in every man, and when you hand that man a sword or spear and send him forth to war, the beast stirs. the scent of blood is all it takes to wake him. yet i have never heard of these unsullied raping, nor putting a city to the sword, nor even plundering, save at the express command of those who lead them. brick they may be, as you say, but if you buy them henceforth the only dogs they'll kill are those you want dead. and you do have some dogs you want dead, as i recall. the usurper's dogs. yes. dany gazed off at the soft colored lights and let the cool salt breeze caress her. you speak of sacking cities. answer me this, ser - why have the dothraki never sacked this city? she pointed. look at the walls. you can see where they've begun to crumble. there, and there. do you see any guards on those towers? i don't. are they hiding, ser? i saw these sons of the harpy today, all their proud highborn warriors. they dressed in linen skirts, and the fiercest thing about them was their hair. even a modest khalasar could crack this astapor like a nut and spill out the rotted meat inside. so tell me, why is that ugly harpy not sitting beside the godsway in vaes dothrak among the other stolen gods? you have a dragon's eye, khaleesi, that's plain to see. i wanted an answer, not a compliment. there are two reasons. astapor's brave defenders are so much chaff, it's true. old names and fat purses who dress up as ghiscari scourges to pretend they still rule a vast empire. every one is a high officer. on feastdays they fight mock wars in the pits to demonstrate what brilliant commanders they are, but it's the eunuchs who do the dying. all the same, any enemy wanting to sack astapor would have to know that they'd be facing unsullied. the slavers would turn out the whole garrison in the city's defense. the dothraki have not ridden against unsullied since they left their braids at the gates of qohor. and the second reason? dany asked. who would attack astapor? ser jorah asked. meereen and yunkai are rivals but not enemies, the doom destroyed valyria, the folk of the eastern hinterlands are all ghiscari, and beyond the hills lies lhazar. the lamb men, as your dothraki call them, a notably unwarlike people. yes, she agreed, but north of the slave cities is the dothraki sea, and two dozen mighty khals who like nothing more than sacking cities and carrying off their people into slavery. carrying them off where? what good are slaves once you've killed the slavers? valyria is no more, qarth lies beyond the red waste, and the nine free cities are thousands of leagues to the west. and you may be sure the sons of the harpy give lavishly to every passing khal, just as the magisters do in pentos and norvos and myr. they know that if they feast the horselords and give them gifts, they will soon ride on. it's cheaper than fighting, and a deal more certain. cheaper than fighting, dany thought. yes, it might be. if only it could be that easy for her. how pleasant it would be to sail to king's landing with her dragons, and pay the boy joffrey a chest of gold to make him go away. khaleesi? ser jorah prompted, when she had been silent for a long time. he touched her elbow lightly. dany shrugged him off . viserys would have bought as many unsullied as he had the coin for. but you once said i was like rhaegar... i remember, daenerys. your grace, she corrected. prince rhaegar led free men into battle, not slaves. whitebeard said he dubbed his squires himself, and made many other knights as well. there was no higher honor than to receive your knighthood from the prince of dragonstone. tell me, then - when he touched a man on the shoulder with his sword, what did he say? 'go forth and kill the weak'? or 'go forth and defend them'? at the trident, those brave men viserys spoke of who died beneath our dragon banners - did they give their lives because they believed in rhaegar 's cause, or because they had been bought and paid for? dany turned to mormont, crossed her arms, and waited for an answer. my queen, the big man said slowly, all you say is true. but rhaegar lost on the trident. he lost the battle, he lost the war, he lost the kingdom, and he lost his life. his blood swirled downriver with the rubies from his breastplate, and robert the usurper rode over his corpse to steal the iron throne. rhaegar fought valiantly, rhaegar fought nobly, rhaegar fought honorably. and rhaegar died. all? the slave girl sounded wary. your grace, did this one's worthless ears mishear you? cool green light filtered down through the diamond-shaped panes of colored glass set in the sloping triangular walls, and a breeze was blowing gently through the terrace doors, carrying the scents of fruit and flowers from the garden beyond. your ears heard true, said dany. i want to buy them all. tell the good masters, if you will. she had chosen a qartheen gown today. the deep violet silk brought out the purple of her eyes. the cut of it bared her left breast. while the good masters of astapor conferred among themselves in low voices, dany sipped tart persimmon wine from a tall silver flute. she could not quite make out all that they were saying, but she could hear the greed. each of the eight brokers was attended by two or three body slaves... though one grazdan, the eldest, had six. so as not to seem a beggar, dany had brought her own attendants; irri and jhiqui in their sandsilk trousers and painted vests, old whitebeard and mighty belwas, her bloodriders. ser jorah stood behind her sweltering in his green surcoat with the black bear of mormont embroidered upon it. the smell of his sweat was an earthy answer to the sweet perfumes that drenched the astapori. all, growled kraznys mo nakloz, who smelled of peaches today. the slave girl repeated the word in the common tongue of westeros. of thousands, there are eight. is this what she means by all? there are also six centuries, who shall be part of a ninth thousand when complete. would she have them too? i would, said dany when the question was put to her. the eight thousands, the six centuries... and the ones still in training as well. the ones who have not earned the spikes. kraznys turned back to his fellows. once again they conferred among themselves. the translator had told dany their names, but it was hard to keep them straight. four of the men seemed to be named grazdan, presumably after grazdan the great who had founded old ghis in the dawn of days. they all looked alike; thick fleshy men with amber skin, broad noses, dark eyes. their wiry hair was black, or a dark red, or that queer mixture of red and black that was peculiar to ghiscari. all wrapped themselves in tokars, a garment permitted only to freeborn men of astapor. it was the fringe on the tokar that proclaimed a man's status, dany had been told by captain groleo. in this cool green room atop the pyramid, two of the slavers wore tokars fringed in silver, five had gold fringes, and one, the oldest grazdan, displayed a fringe of fat white pearls that clacked together softly when he shifted in his seat or moved an arm. we cannot sell half-trained boys, one of the silver-fringe grazdans was saying to the others. we can, if her gold is good, said a fatter man whose fringe was gold. they are not unsullied. they have not killed their sucklings. if they fail in the field, they will shame us. and even if we cut five thousand raw boys tomorrow, it would be ten years before they are fit for sale. what would we tell the next buyer who comes seeking unsullied? we will tell him that he must wait, said the fat man. gold in my purse is better than gold in my future. dany let them argue, sipping the tart persimmon wine and trying to keep her face blank and ignorant. i will have them all, no matter the price, she told herself. the city had a hundred slave traders, but the eight before her were the greatest. when selling bed slaves, fieldhands, scribes, craftsmen, and tutors, these men were rivals, but their ancestors had allied one with the other for the purpose of making and selling the unsullied. brick and blood built astapor, and brick and blood her people. it was kraznys who finally announced their decision. tell her that the eight thousands she shall have, if her gold proves sufficient. and the six centuries, if she wishes. tell her to come back in a year, and we will sell her another two thousand. in a year i shall be in westeros, said dany when she had heard the translation. my need is now the unsullied are well trained, but even so, many will fall in battle. i shall need the boys as replacements to take up the swords they drop. she put her wine aside and leaned toward the slave girl. tell the good masters that i will want even the little ones who still have their puppies. tell them that i will pay as much for the boy they cut yesterday as for an unsullied in a spiked helm. the girl told them. the answer was still no. dany frowned in annoyance. very well. tell them i will pay double, so long as i get them all. double? the fat one in the gold fringe all but drooled. this little whore is a fool, truly, said khaznys mo nakloz. ask her for triple, i say. she is desperate enough to pay. ask for ten times the price of every slave, yes. the tall grazdan with the spiked beard spoke in the common tongue, though not so well as the slave girl. your grace, he growled, westeros is being wealthy, yes, but you are not being queen now. perhaps will never being queen. even unsullied may be losing battles to savage steel knights of seven kingdoms. i am reminding, the good masters of astapor are not selling flesh for promisings. are you having gold and trading goods sufficient to be paying for all these eunuchs you are wanting? you know the answer to that better than i, good master, dany replied. your men have gone through my ships and tallied every bead of amber and jar of saffron. how much do i have? sufficient to be buying one of thousands, the good master said, with a contemptuous smile. yet you are paying double, you are saying. five centuries, then, is all you buy. your pretty crown might buy another century, said the fat one in valyrian. your crown of the three dragons. dany waited for his words to be translated. my crown is not for sale. when viserys sold their mother's crown, the last joy had gone from him, leaving only rage. nor will i enslave my people, nor sell their goods and horses. but my ships you can have. the great cog balerion and the galleys vhagar and meraxes. she had warned groleo and the other captains it might come to this, though they had protested the necessity of it furiously. three good ships should be worth more than a few paltry eunuchs. the fat grazdan turned to the others. they conferred in low voices once again. two of the thousands, the one with the spiked beard said when he turned back. it is too much, but the good masters are being generous and your need is being great. two thousand would never serve for what she meant to do. i must have them all. dany knew what she must do now, though the taste of it was so bitter that even the persimmon wine could not cleanse it from her month. she had considered long and hard and found no other way. it is my only choice. give me all, she said, and you may have a dragon. there was the sound of indrawn breath from jhiqui beside her. kraznys smiled at his fellows. did i not tell you? anything, she would give us. whitebeard stared in shocked disbelief. his hand trembled where it grasped the staff. no. he went to one knee before her. your grace, i beg you, win your throne with dragons, not slaves. you must not do this thing - you must not presume to instruct me. ser jo rah, remove whitebeard from my presence. mormont seized the old man roughly by an elbow, yanked him back to his feet, and marched him out onto the terrace. tell the good masters i regret this interruption, said dany to the slave girl. tell them i await their answer. she knew the answer, though; she could see it in the glitter of their eyes and the smiles they tried so hard to hide. astapor had thousands of eunuchs, and even more slave boys waiting to be cut, but there were only three living dragons in all the great wide world. and the ghiscari lust for dragons. how could they not? five times had old ghis contended with valyria when the world was young, and five times gone down to bleak defeat. for the freehold had dragons, and the empire had none. the oldest grazdan stirred in his seat ' and his pearls clacked together softly. a dragon of our choice, he said in a thin, hard voice. the black one is largest and healthiest. his name is drogon. she nodded. all your goods, save your crown and your queenly raiment, which we will allow you to keep. the three ships. and drogon. done, she said, in the common tongue. done, the old grazdan answered in his thick valyrian. the others echoed that old man of the pearl fringe. done, the slave girl translated, and done, and done, eight times done. the unsullied will learn your savage tongue quick enough, added kraznys mo nakloz, when all the arrangements had been made, but until such time you will need a slave to speak to them. take this one as our gift to you, a token of a bargain well struck.  i shall, said dany. the slave girl rendered his words to her, and-hers to him. if she had feelings about being given for a token, she took care not to let them show. arstan whitebeard held his tongue as well, when dany swept by him on the terrace. he followed her down the steps in silence, but she could hear his hardwood staff tap tapping on the red bricks as they went. she did not blame him for his fury. it was a wretched thing she did. the mother of dragons has sold her strongest child. even the thought made her ill. yet down in the plaza of pride, standing on the hot red bricks between the slavers' pyramid and the barracks of the eunuchs, dany turned on the old man. whitebeard, she said, i want your counsel, and you should never fear to speak your mind with me... when we are alone. but never question me in front of strangers. is that understood? yes, your grace, he said unhappily. i am not a child, she told him. i am a queen. 'yet even queens can err. the astapori have cheated you, your grace. a dragon is worth more than any army. aegon proved that three hundred years ago, upon the field of fire. i know what aegon proved. i mean to prove a few things of my own. dany turned away from him, to the slave girl standing meekly beside her litter. do you have a name, or must you draw a new one every day from some barrel? that is only for unsullied, the girl said. then she realized the question had been asked in high valyrian. her eyes went wide. oh. your name is oh? no. your grace, forgive this one her outburst. your slave's name is missandei, but... missandei is no longer a slave. i free you, from this instant. come ride with me in the litter, i wish to talk. rakharo helped them in, and dany drew the curtains shut against the dust and heat. if you stay with me you will serve as one of my handmaids, she said as they set off. i shall keep you by my side to speak for me as you spoke for kraznys. but you may leave my service whenever you choose, if you have father or mother you would sooner return to. this one will stay, the girl said. this one... i... there is no place for me to go. this... i will serve you, gladly. i can give you freedom, but not safety, dany warned. i have a world to cross and wars to fight. you may go hungry. you may grow sick. you may be killed. valar morghulis, said missandei, in high valyrian. all men must die, dany agreed, but not for a long while, we may pray. she leaned back on the pillows and took the girl's hand. are these unsullied truly fearless? yes, your grace. you serve me now. is it true they feel no pain? the wine of courage kills such feelings. by the time they slay their sucklings, they have been drinking it for years. and they are obedient? obedience is all they know. if you told them not to breathe, they would find that easier than not to obey. dany nodded. and when i am done with them? your grace? when i have won my war and claimed the throne that was my father's, my knights will sheathe their swords and return to their keeps, to their wives and children and mothers... to their lives. but these eunuchs have no lives. what am i to do with eight thousand eunuchs when there are no more battles to be fought? the unsullied make fine guards and excellent watchmen, your grace, said missandei. and it is never hard to find a buyer for such fine well-blooded troops. men are not bought and sold in westeros, they tell me. with all respect, your grace, unsullied are not men. if i did resell them, how would i know they could not be used against me? dany asked pointedly. would they do that? fight against me, even do me harm? if their master commanded. they do not question, your grace. all the questions have been culled from them. they obey. she looked troubled. when you are... when you are done with them... your grace might command them to fall upon their swords. and even that, they would do? yes. missandei's voice had grown soft. your grace. dany squeezed her hand. you would sooner i did not ask it of them, though. why is that? why do you care? this one does not... i... your grace... tell me. the girl lowered her eyes. three of them were my brothers once, your grace. then i hope your brothers are as brave and clever as you. dany leaned back into her pillow, and let the litter bear her onward, back to balerion one last time to set her world in order. and back to drogon. her mouth set grimly. it was a long, dark, windy night that followed. dany fed her dragons as she always did, but found she had no appetite herself. she cried awhile, alone in her cabin, then dried her tears long enough for yet another argument with groleo. magister illyrio is not here, she finally had to tell him, and if he was, he could not sway me either. i need the unsullied more than i need these ships, and i will hear no more about it. the anger burned the grief and fear from her, for a few hours at the least. afterward she called her bloodriders to her cabin, with ser jorah. they were the only ones she truly trusted. she meant to sleep afterward, to be well rested for the morrow, but an hour of restless tossing in the stuffy confines of the cabin soon convinced her that was hopeless. outside her door she found aggo fitting anew string to his bow by the light of a swinging oil lamp. rakharo sat cross- legged on the deck beside him, sharpening his arakh with a whetstone. dany told them both to keep on with what they were doing, and went up on deck for a taste of the cool night air. the crew left her alone as they went about their business, but ser jorah soon joined her by the rail. he is never far, dany thought. he knows my moods too well. khaleesi. you ought to be asleep. tomorrow will be hot and hard, i promise you. you'll need your strength. do you remember eroeh? she asked him. the lhazareen girl? they were raping her, but i stopped them and took her under my protection. only when my sun-and-stars was dead mago took her back, used her again, and killed her. aggo said it was her fate. i remember, ser jorah said. i was alone for a long time, jorah. all alone but for my brother. i was such a small scared thing. viserys should have protected me, but instead he hurt me and scared me worse. he shouldn't have done that. he wasn't just my brother, he was my king. why do the gods make kings and queens, if not to protect the ones who can't protect themselves? some kings make themselves. robert did. he was no true king, dany said scornfully. he did no justice, justice... that's what kings are for. ser jorah had no answer. he only smiled, and touched her hair, so lightly, it was enough. that night she dreamt that she was rhaegar, riding to the trident. but she was mounted on a dragon, not a horse. when she saw the usurper's rebel host across the river they were armored all in ice, but she bathed them in dragonfire and they melted away like dew and turned the trident into a torrent. some small part of her knew that she was dreaming, but another part exulted. this is how it was meant to be. the other was a nightmare, and i have only now awakened. she woke suddenly in the darkness of her cabin, still flush with triumph. balerion seemed to wake with her, and she heard the faint creak of wood, water lapping against the hull, a footfall on the deck above her head. and something else. someone was in the cabin with her. irri? jhiqui? where are you? her handmaids did not respond. it was too black to see, but she could hear them breathing. jorah, is that you? they sleep, a woman said. they all sleep. the voice was very close. even dragons must sleep. she is standing over me. who's there? dany peered into the darkness. she thought she could see a shadow, the faintest outline of a shape. what do you want of me? remember. to go north, you must journey south. to reach the west, you must go east. to go forward you must go back, and to touch the light you must pass beneath the shadow. quaithe? dany sprung from the bed and threw open the door. pale yellow lantern light flooded the cabin, and irri and jhiqui sat up sleepily. khaleesi? murmured jhiqui, rubbing her eyes. viserion woke and opened his jaws, and a puff of flame brightened even the darkest comers. there was no sign of a woman in a red lacquer mask. khaleesi, are you unwell? asked jhiqui. a dream. dany shook her head. i dreamed a dream, no more. go back to sleep. all of us, go back to sleep. yet try as she might, sleep would not come again. if i look back i am lost, dany told herself the next morning as she entered astapor through the harbor gates. she dared not remind herself how small and insignificant her following truly was, or she would lose all courage. today she rode her silver, clad in horsehair pants and painted leather vest, a bronze medallion belt about her waist and two more crossed between her breasts. irri and jhiqui had braided her hair and hung it with a tiny silver bell whose chime sang of the undying of qarth, burned in their palace of dust. the red brick streets of astapor were almost crowded this morning. slaves and servants lined the ways, while the slavers and their women donned their tokars to look down from their stepped pyramids. they are not so different from qartheen after all, she thought. they want a glimpse of dragons to tell their children of, and their children's children. it made her wonder how many of them would ever have children. aggo went before her with his great dothraki bow. strong belwas walked to the right of her mare, the girl missandei to her left. ser jorah mormont was behind in mail and surcoat, glowering at anyone who came too near. rakharo and jhogo protected the litter. dany had commanded that the top be removed, so her three dragons might be chained to the platform. irri and jhiqui rode with them, to try and keep them calm. yet viserion's tail lashed back and forth, and smoke rose angry from his nostrils. rhaegal could sense something wrong as well. thrice he tried to take wing, only to be pulled down by the heavy chain in jhiqui' s hand. drogon coiled into a ball, wings and tail tucked tight. only his eyes remained to tell that he was not asleep. the rest of her people followed: groleo and the other captains and their crews, and the eighty- three dothraki who remained to her of the hundred thousand who had once ridden in drogo's khalasar. she put the oldest and weakest on the inside of the column, with the nursing women and those with child, and the little girls, and the boys too young to braid their hair. the rest - her warriors, such as they were - rode outside and moved their dismal herd along, the hundred-odd gaunt horses that had survived both red waste and black salt sea. i ought to have a banner sewn, she thought as she led her tattered band up along astapor's meandering river. she closed her eyes to imagine how it would look: all flowing black silk, and on it the red three-headed dragon of targaryen, breathing golden flames. a banner such as rhaegar might have borne. the river's banks were strangely tranquil. the worm, the astapori called the stream. it was wide and slow and crooked, dotted with tiny wooded islands. she glimpsed children playing on one of them, darting amongst elegant marble statues. on another island two lovers kissed in the shade of tall green trees, with no more shame than dothraki at a wedding. without clothing, she could not tell if they were slave or free. the plaza of pride with its great bronze harpy was too small to hold all the unsullied she had bought, instead they had been assembled in the plaza of punishment, fronting on astapor's main gate, so they might be marched directly from the city once daenerys had taken them in hand. there were no bronze statues here; only a wooden platform where rebellious slaves were racked, and flayed, and hanged. the good masters place them so they will be the first thing a new slave sees upon entering the city, missandei told her as they came to the plaza. at first glimpse, dany thought their skin was striped like the zorses of the jogos nhai. then she rode her silver nearer and saw the raw red flesh beneath the crawling black stripes. flies. flies and maggots. the rebellious slaves had been peeled like a man might peel an apple, in a long curling strip. one man had an arm black with flies from fingers to elbow, and red and white beneath. dany reined in beneath him. what did this one do? he raised a hand against his owner. her stomach roiling, dany wheeled her silver about and trotted toward the center of the plaza, and the army she had bought so dear. rank on rank on rank they stood, her stone halfmen with their hearts of brick; eight thousand and six hundred in the spiked bronze caps of fully trained unsullied, and five thousand odd behind them, bareheaded, yet armed with spears and shortswords. the ones farthest to the back were only boys, she saw, but they stood as straight and still as all the rest. kraznys mo nakloz and his fellows were all there to greet her. other well-born astapori stood in knots behind them, sipping wine from silver flutes as slaves circulated among them with trays of olives and cherries and figs. the elder grazdan sat in a sedan chair supported by four huge copper-skinned slaves. haifa dozen mounted lancers rode along the edges of the plaza, keeping back the crowds who had come to watch. the sun flashed blinding bright off the polished copper disks sewn to their cloaks, but she could not help but notice how nervous their horses seemed. they fear the dragons. and well they might. kraznys had a slave help her from her saddle. his own hands were full; one clutched his tokar, while the other held an ornate whip. here they are. he looked at missandei. tell her they are hers... if she can pay. she can, the girl said. ser jorah barked a command, and the trade goods were brought forward. six bales of tiger skins, three hundred bolts of fine silk, jars of saffron, jars of myrrh, jars of pepper and curry and cardamom, an onyx mask, twelve jade monkeys, casks of ink in red and black and green, a box of rare black amethysts, a box of pearls, a cask of pitted olives stuffed with maggots, a dozen casks of pickled cave fish, a great brass gong and a hammer to beat it with, seventeen ivory eyes, and a huge chest full of books written in tongues that dany could not read. and more, and more, and more. her people stacked it all before the slavers. while the payment was being made, kraznys mo nakloz favored her with a few final words on the handling of her troops. they are green as yet, he said through missandei. tell the whore of westeros she would be wise to blood them early. there are many small cities between here and there, cities ripe for sacking. whatever plunder she takes will be hers alone. unsullied have no lust for gold or gems. and should she take captives, a few guards will suffice to march them back to astapor. we'll buy the healthy ones, and for a good price. and who knows? in ten years, some of the boys she sends us may be unsullied in their turn. thus all shall prosper. finally there were no more trade goods to add to the pile. her dothraki mounted their horses once more, and dany said, this was all we could carry. the rest awaits you on the ships, a great quantity of amber and wine and black rice. and you have the ships themselves. so all that remains is... ... the dragon, finished the grazdan with the spiked beard, who spoke the common tongue so thickly. and here he waits. ser jorah and belwas walked beside her to the litter, where drogon and his brothers lay basking in the sun. jhiqui unfastened one end of the chain, and handed it down to her. when she gave a yank, the black dragon raised his head, hissing, and unfolded wings of night and scarlet. kraznys mo nakloz smiled broadly as their shadow fell across him. dany handed the slaver the end of drogon's chain. in return he presented her with the whip. the handle was black dragonbone, elaborately carved and inlaid with gold. nine long thin leather lashes trailed from it, each one tipped by a gilded claw. the gold pommel was a woman's head, with pointed ivory teeth. the harpy's fingers, kraznys named the scourge. dany turned the whip in her hand. such a light thing, to bear such weight. is it done, then? do they belong to me? it is done, he agreed, giving the chain a sharp pull to bring drogon down from the litter. dany mounted her silver. she could feel her heart thumping in her chest. she felt desperately afraid. was this what my brother would have done? she wondered if prince rhaegar had been this anxious when he saw the usurper's host formed up across the trident with all their banners floating on the wind. she stood in her stirrups and raised the harpy's fingers above her head for all the unsullied to see. it is done! she cried at the top of her lungs. you are mine! she gave the mare her heels and galloped along the first rank, holding the fingers high. you are the dragon's now! you're bought and paid for! it is done! it is done! she glimpsed old grazdan turn his grey head sharply. he hears me speak valyrian. the other slavers were not listening. they crowded around kraznys and the dragon, shouting advice. though the astapori yanked and tugged, drogon would not budge off the litter. smoke rose grey from his open jaws, and his long neck curled and straightened as he snapped at the slaver's face. it is time to cross the trident, dany thought, as she wheeled and rode her silver back. her bloodriders moved in close around her. you are in difficulty, she observed. he will not come, kraznys said. there is a reason. a dragon is no slave. and dany swept the lash down as hard as she could across the slaver's face. kraznys screamed and staggered back, the blood running red down his cheeks into his perfumed beard. the harpy's fingers had torn his features half to pieces with one slash, but she did not pause to contemplate the ruin. drogon, she sang out loudly, sweetly, all her fear forgotten. dracarys. the black dragon spread his wings and roared. a lance of swirling dark flame took kraznys full in the face. his eyes melted and ran down his cheeks, and the oil in his hair and beard burst so fiercely into fire that for an instant the slaver wore a burning crown twice as tall as his head. the sudden stench of charred meat overwhelmed even his perfume, and his wail seemed to drown all other sound. then the plaza of punishment blew apart into blood and chaos. the good masters were shrieking, stumbling, shoving one another aside and tripping over the fringes of their tokars in their haste. drogon flew almost lazily at kraznys, black wings beating. as he gave the slaver another taste of fire, irri and jhiqui unchained viserion and rhaegal, and suddenly there were three dragons in the air. when dany turned to look, a third of astapor's proud demon-homed warriors were fighting to stay atop their terrified mounts, and another third were fleeing in a bright blaze of shiny copper. one man kept his saddle long enough to draw a sword, but jhogo's whip coiled about his neck and cut off his shout. another lost a hand to rakharo's arakh and rode off reeling and spurting blood. aggo sat calmly notching arrows to his bowstring and sending them at tokars. silver, gold, or plain, he cared nothing for the fringe. strong belwas had his arakh out as well, and he spun it as he charged. spears! dany heard one astapori shout. it was grazdan, old grazdan in his tokar heavy with pearls. unsullied! defend us, stop them, defend your masters! spears! swords! when rakharo put an arrow through his mouth, the slaves holding his sedan chair broke and ran, dumping him unceremoniously on the ground. the old man crawled to the first rank of eunuchs, his blood pooling on the bricks. the unsullied did not so much as look down to watch him die. rank on rank on rank, they stood. and did not move. the gods have heard my prayer. unsullied! dany galloped before them, her silver-gold braid flying behind her, her bell chiming with every stride. slay the good masters, slay the soldiers, slay every man who wears a tokar or holds a whip, but harm no child under twelve, and strike the chains off every slave you see. she raised the harpy's fingers in the air... and then she flung the scourge aside. freedom! she sang out. dracarys! dracarys! dracarys! they shouted back, the sweetest word she'd ever heard. dracarys! dracarys! and all around them slavers ran and sobbed and begged and died, and the dusty air was filled with spears and fire. her dothraki scouts had told her how it was, but dany wanted to see for herself. ser jo rah mormont rode with her through a birchwood forest and up a slanting sandstone ridge. near enough, he warned her at the crest. dany reined in her mare and looked across the fields, to where the yunkish host lay athwart her path. whitebeard had been teaching her how best to count the numbers of a foe. five thousand, she said after a moment. i'd say so. ser jorah pointed. those are sellswords on the flanks. lances and mounted bowmen, with swords and axes for the close work. the second sons on the left wing, the stormcrows to the right. about five hundred men apiece. see the banners? yunkai's harpy grasped a whip and iron collar in her talons instead of a length of chain. but the sellswords flew their own standards beneath those of the city they served: on the right four crows between crossed thunderbolts, on the left a broken sword. the yunkai'i hold the center themselves, dany noted. their officers looked indistinguishable from astapor's at a distance; tall bright helms and cloaks sewn with flashing copper disks. are those slave soldiers they lead? in large part. but not the equal of unsullied. yunkai is known for training bed slaves, not warriors. what say you? can we defeat this army? easily, ser jorah said. but not bloodlessly. blood aplenty had soaked into the bricks of astapor the day that city fell, though little of it belonged to her or hers. we might win a battle here, but at such cost we cannot take the city. that is ever a risk, khaleesi. astapor was complacent and vulnerable. yunkai is forewarned. dany considered. the slaver host seemed small compared to her own numbers, but the sellswords were ahorse. she'd ridden too long with dothraki not to have a healthy respect for what mounted warriors could do to foot. the unsullied could withstand their charge, but my freedmen will be slaughtered. the slavers like to talk, she said. send word that i will hear them this evening in my tent. and invite the captains of the sellsword companies to call on me as well. but not together. the stormcrows at midday, the second sons two hours later. as you wish, ser jorah said. but if they do not come - they'll come. they will be curious to see the dragons and hear what i might have to say, and the clever ones will see it for a chance to gauge my strength. she wheeled her silver mare about. i'll await them in my pavilion. slate skies and brisk winds saw dany back to her host. the deep ditch that would encircle her camp was already half dug, and the woods were full of unsullied lopping branches off birch trees to sharpen into stakes. the eunuchs could not sleep in an unfortified camp, or so grey worm insisted. he was there watching the work. dany halted a moment to speak with him. yunkai has girded up her loins for battle. this is good, your grace. these ones thirst for blood. when she had commanded the unsullied to choose officers from amongst themselves, grey worm had been their overwhelming choice for the highest rank. dany had put ser jorah over him to train him for command, and the exile knight said that so far the young eunuch was hard but fair, quick to learn, tireless, and utterly unrelenting in his attention to detail. the wise masters have assembled a slave army to meet us. a slave in yunkai learns the way of seven sighs and the sixteen seats of pleasure, your grace. the unsullied learn the way of the three spears. your grey worm hopes to show you. one of the first things dany had done after the fall of astapor was abolish the custom of giving the unsullied new slave names every day. most of those born free had returned to their birth names; those who still remembered them, at least, others had called themselves after heroes or gods, and sometimes weapons, gems, and even flowers, which resulted in soldiers with some very peculiar names, to dany's ears. grey worm had remained grey worm. when she asked him why, he said, it is a lucky name. the name this one was born to was accursed. that was the name he had when he was taken for a slave. but grey worm is the name this one drew the day daenerys stormborn set him free. if battle is joined, let grey worm show wisdom as well as valor, dany told him. spare any slave who runs or throws down his weapon. the fewer slain, the more remain to join us after. this one will remember. i know he will. be at my tent by midday. i want you there with my other officers when i treat with the sellsword captains. dany spurred her silver on to camp. within the perimeter the unsullied had established, the tents were going up in orderly rows, with her own tall golden pavilion at the center. a second encampment lay close beyond her own; five times the size, sprawling and chaotic, this second camp had no ditches, no tents, no sentries, no horselines. those who had horses or mules slept beside them, for fear they might be stolen. goats, sheep, and half-starved dogs wandered freely amongst hordes of women, children, and old men. dany had left astapor in the hands of a council of former slaves led by a healer, a scholar, and a priest. wise men all, she thought, and just. yet even so, tens of thousands preferred to follow her to yunkai, rather than remain behind in astapor. i gave them the city, and most of them were too frightened to take it. the raggle-taggle host of freedmen dwarfed her own, but they were more burden than benefit. perhaps one in a hundred had a donkey, a camel, or an ox; most carried weapons looted from some slaver's armory, but only one in ten was strong enough to fight, and none was trained. they ate the land bare as they passed, like locusts in sandals. yet dany could not bring herself to abandon them as ser jorah and her bloodriders urged. i told them they were free. i cannot tell them now they are not free to join me. she gazed at the smoke rising from their cookfires and swallowed a sigh. she might have the best footsoldiers in the world, but she also had the worst. arstan whitebeard stood outside the entrance of her tent, while strong belwas sat cross-legged on the grass nearby, eating a bowl of figs, on the march, the duty of guarding her fell upon their shoulders. she had made jhogo, aggo, and rakharo her kos as well as her bloodriders, and just now she needed them more to command her dothraki than to protect her person. her khalasar was tiny, some thirty-odd mounted warriors, and most of them braidless boys and bentback old men. yet they were all the horse she had, and she dared not go without them. the unsullied might be the finest infantry in all the world, as ser jorah claimed, but she needed scouts and outriders as well. yunkai will have war, dany told whitebeard inside the pavilion. irri and jhiqui had covered the floor with carpets while missandei lit a stick of incense to sweeten the dusty air. drogon and rhaegal were asleep atop some cushions, curled about each other, but viserion perched on the edge of her empty bath. missandei, what language will these yunkai' i speak, valyrian? yes, your grace, the child said. a different dialect than astapor's, yet close enough to understand. the slavers name themselves the wise masters. wise? dany sat cross-legged on a cushion, and viserion spread his white-and-gold wings and flapped to her side. we shall see how wise they are, she said as she scratched the dragon's scaly head behind the horns. ser jorah mormont returned an hour later, accompanied by three captains of the stormcrows. they wore black feathers on their polished helms, and claimed to be all equal in honor and authority. dany studied them as irri and jhiqui poured the wine. prendahl na ghezn was a thickset ghiscari with a broad face and dark hair going grey; sailor the bald had a twisting scar across his pale qartheen cheek; and daario naharis was flamboyant even for a tyroshi. his beard was cut into three prongs and dyed blue, the same color as his eyes and the curly hair that fell to his collar. his pointed mustachios were painted gold. his clothes were all shades of yellow; a foam of myrish lace the color of butter spilled from his collar and cuffs, his doublet was sewn with brass medallions in the shape of dandelions, and ornamental goldwork crawled up his high leather boots to his thighs. gloves of soft yellow suede were tucked into a belt of gilded rings, and his fingernails were enameled blue. but it was prendahl na ghezn who spoke for the sellswords. you would do well to take your rabble elsewhere, he said. you took astapor by treachery, but yunkai shall not fall so easily. five hundred of your stormcrows against ten thousand of my unsullied, said dany. i am only a young girl and do not understand the ways of war, yet these odds seem poor to me. the stormcrows do not stand alone, said prendahl. stormcrows do not stand at all. they fly, at the first sign of thunder. perhaps you should be flying now. i have heard that sellswords are notoriously unfaithful. what will it avail you to be staunch, when the second sons change sides? that will not happen, prendahl insisted, unmoved. and if it did, it would not matter. the second sons are nothing. we fight beside the stalwart men of yunkai. you fight beside bed-boys armed with spears. when she turned her head, the twin bells in her braid rang softly. once battle is joined, do not think to ask for quarter, join me now, however, and you shall keep the gold the yunkaii paid you and claim a share of the plunder besides, with greater rewards later when i come into my kingdom. fight for the wise masters, and your wages will be death. do you imagine that yunkai will open its gates when my unsullied are butchering you beneath the walls? woman, you bray like an ass, and make no more sense. woman? she chuckled. is that meant to insult me? i would return the slap, if i took you for a man. dany met his stare. i am daenerys stormborn of house targaryen, the unburnt, mother of dragons, khaleesi to drogo's riders, and queen of the seven kingdoms of westeros. what you are, said prendahl na ghezn, is a horselord's whore. when we break you, i will breed you to my stallion. strong belwas drew his arakh. strong belwas will give his ugly tongue to the little queen, if she likes. no, belwas. i have given these men my safe conduct. she smiled. tell me this - are the stormcrows slave or free? we are a brotherhood of free men, sailor declared. good. dany stood. go back and tell your brothers what i said, then it may be that some of them would sooner sup on gold and glory than on death. i shall want your answer on the morrow. the stormcrow captains rose in unison. our answer is no, said prendahl na ghezn. his fellows followed him out of the tent... but daario naharis glanced back as he left, and inclined his head in polite farewell. two hours later the commander of the second sons arrived alone. he proved to be a towering braavosi with pale green eyes and a bushy red-gold beard that reached nearly to his belt. his name was mero, but he called himself the titan's bastard. mero tossed down his wine straightaway, wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, and leered at dany. i believe i fucked your twin sister in a pleasure house back home. or was it you? i think not. i would remember a man of such magnificence, i have no doubt. yes, that is so. no woman has ever forgotten the titan's bastard. the braavosi held out his cup to jhiqui. what say you take those clothes off and come sit on my lap? if you please me, i might bring the second sons over to your side. if you bring the second sons over to my side, i might not have you gelded. the big man laughed. little girl, another woman once tried to geld me with her teeth. she has no teeth now, but my sword is as long and thick as ever. shall i take it out and show you? no need. after my eunuchs cut it off, i can examine it at my leisure. dany took a sip of wine. it is true that i am only a young girl, and do not know the ways of war. explain to me how you propose to defeat ten thousand unsullied with your five hundred, innocent as i am, these odds seem poor to me. the second sons have faced worse odds and won. the second sons have faced worse odds and run. at qohor, when the three thousand made their stand. or do you deny it? that was many and more years ago, before the second sons were led by the titan's bastard. so it is from you they get their courage? dany turned to ser jorah. when the battle is joined, kill this one first. the exile knight smiled. gladly, your grace. of course, she said to mero, you could run again. we will not stop you. take your yunkish gold and go. had you ever seen the titan of braavos, foolish girl, you would know that it has no tail to turn. then stay, and fight for me. you are worth fighting for, it is true, the braavosi said, and i would gladly let you kiss my sword, if i were free. but i have taken yunkai's coin and pledged my holy word. coins can be returned, she said. i will pay you as much and more. i have other cities to conquer, and a whole kingdom awaiting me half a world away. serve me faithfully, and the second sons need never seek hire again. the braavosi tugged on his thick red beard. as much and more, and perhaps a kiss besides, eh? or more than a kiss? for a man as magnificent as me? perhaps. i will like the taste of your tongue, i think. she could sense ser jorah's anger. my black bear does not like this talk of kissing. think on what i've said tonight. can i have your answer on the morrow? you can. the titan's bastard grinned. can i have a flagon of this fine wine to take back to my captains? you may have a tun. it is from the cellars of the good masters of astapor, and i have wagons full of it. then give me a wagon. a token of your good regard. you have a big thirst. i am big all over. and i have many brothers. the titan's bastard does not drink alone, khaleesi. a wagon it is, if you promise to drink to my health. done! he boomed. and done, and done! three toasts we'll drink you, and bring you an answer when the sun comes up. but when mero was gone, arstan whitebeard said, that one has an evil reputation, even in westeros. do not be misled by his manner, your grace. he will drink three toasts to your health tonight, and rape you on the morrow. the old man's right for once, ser jorah said. the second sons are an old company, and not without valor, but under mero they've turned near as bad as the brave companions. the man is as dangerous to his employers as to his foes. that's why you find him out here. none of the free cities will hire him any longer. it is not his reputation that i want, it's his five hundred horse. what of the stormcrows, is there any hope there? no, ser jorah said bluntly. that prendahl is ghiscari by blood. likely he had kin in astapor. a pity. well, perhaps we will not need to fight. let us wait and hear what the yunkai'i have to say. the envoys from yunkai arrived as the sun was going down; fifty men on magnificent black horses and one on a great white camel. their helms were twice as tall as their heads, so as not to crush the bizarre twists and towers and shapes of their oiled hair beneath. they dyed their linen skirts and tunics a deep yellow, and sewed copper disks to their cloaks. the man on the white camel named himself grazdan mo eraz. lean and hard, he had a white smile such as kraznys had worn until drogon burned off his face. his hair was drawn up in a unicorn's horn that jutted from his brow, and his tokar was fringed with golden myrish lace. ancient and glorious is yunkai, the queen of cities, he said when dany welcomed him to her tent. our walls are strong, our nobles proud and fierce, our common folk without fear. ours is the blood of ancient ghis, whose empire was old when valyria was yet a squalling child. you were wise to sit and speak, khaleesi. you shall find no easy conquest here. good. my unsullied will relish a bit of a fight. she looked to grey worm, who nodded. grazdan shrugged expansively. if blood is what you wish, let it flow. i am told you have freed your eunuchs. freedom means as much to an unsullied as a hat to a haddock. he smiled at grey worm, but the eunuch might have been made of stone. those who survive we shall enslave again, and use to retake astapor from the rabble. we can make a slave of you as well, do not doubt it. there are pleasure houses in lys and tyrosh where men would pay handsomely to bed the last targaryen. it is good to see you know who i am, said dany mildly. i pride myself on my knowledge of the savage senseless west. grazdan spread his hands, a gesture of conciliation. and yet, why should we speak thus harshly to one another? it is true that you committed savageries in astapor, but we yunkai'i are a most forgiving people. your quarrel is not with us, your grace. why squander your strength against our mighty walls when you will need every man to regain your father's throne in far westeros? yunkai wishes you only well in that endeavor. and to prove the truth of that, i have brought you a gift. he clapped his hands, and two of his escort came forward bearing a heavy cedar chest bound in bronze and gold. they set it at her feet. fifty thousand golden marks, grazdan said smoothly. yours, as a gesture of friendship from the wise masters of yunkai. gold given freely is better than plunder bought with blood, surely? so i say to you, daenerys targaryen, take this chest, and go. dany pushed open the lid of the chest with a small slippered foot. it was full of gold coins, just as the envoy said. she grabbed a handful and let them run through her fingers. they shone brightly as they tumbled and fell; new minted, most of them, stamped with a stepped pyramid on one face and the harpy of ghis on the other. very pretty. i wonder how many chests like this i shall find when i take your city? he chuckled. none, for that you shall never do. i have a gift for you as well. she slammed the chest shut. three days. on the morning of the third day, send out your slaves. all of them. every man, woman, and child shall be given a weapon, and as much food, clothing, coin, and goods as he or she can carry. these they shall be allowed to choose freely from among their masters' possessions, as payment for their years of servitude. when all the slaves have departed, you will open your gates and allow my unsullied to enter and search your city, to make certain none remain in bondage. if you do this, yunkai will not be burned or plundered, and none of your people shall be molested. the wise masters will have the peace they desire, and will have proved themselves wise indeed. what say you? i say, you are mad. am i? dany shrugged, and said, dracarys. the dragons answered. rhaegal hissed and smoked, viserion snapped, and drogon spat swirling red-black flame. it touched the drape of grazdan's tokar, and the silk caught in half a heartbeat. golden marks spilled across the carpets as the envoy stumbled over the chest, shouting curses and beating at his arm until whitebeard flung a flagon of water over him to douse the flames. you swore i should have safe conduct! the yunkish envoy wailed. do all the yunkai' i whine so over a singed tokar? i shall buy you a new one... if you deliver up your slaves within three days. elsewise, drogon shall give you a warmer kiss. she wrinkled her nose. you've soiled yourself. take your gold and go, and see that the wise masters hear my message. grazdan mo eraz pointed a finger. you shall rue this arrogance, whore. these little lizards will not keep you safe, i promise you. we will fill the air with arrows if they come within a league of yunkai. do you think it is so hard to kill a dragon? harder than to kill a slaver. three days, grazdan. tell them. by the end of the third day, i will be in yunkai, whether you open your gates for me or no. full dark had fallen by the time the yunkai'i departed from her camp. it promised to be a gloomy night; moonless, starless, with a chill wet wind blowing from the west. a fine black night, thought dany. the fires burned all around her, small orange stars strewn across hill and field. ser jorah, she said, summon my bloodriders. dany seated herself on a mound of cushions to await them, her dragons all about her. when they were assembled, she said, an hour past midnight should be time enough. yes, khaleesi, said rakharo. time for what? to mount our attack. ser jorah mormont scowled. you told the sellswords - - that i wanted their answers on the morrow. i made no promises about tonight. the stormcrows will be arguing about my offer. the second sons will be drunk on the wine i gave mero. and the yunkai'i believe they have three days. we will take them under cover of this darkness. they will have scouts watching for us. and in the dark, they will see hundreds of camp fires burning, said dany. if they see anything at all. khaleesi, said jhogo, i will deal with these scouts. they are no riders, only slavers on horses. just so, she agreed. i think we should attack from three sides. grey worm, your unsullied shall strike at them from right and left, while my kos lead my horse in wedge for a thrust through their center. slave soldiers will never stand before mounted dothraki. she smiled. to be sure, i am only a young girl and know little of war. what do you think, my lords? i think you are rhaegar targaryen's sister, ser jorah said with a rueful half smile. aye, said arstan whitebeard, and a queen as well. it took an hour to work out all the details. now begins the most dangerous time, dany thought as her captains departed to their commands. she could only pray that the gloom of the night would hide her preparations from the foe. near midnight, she got a scare when ser jorah bulled his way past strong belwas. the unsullied caught one of the sellswords trying to sneak into the camp. a spy? that frightened her. if they'd caught one, how many others might have gotten away? he claims to come bearing gifts, it's the yellow fool with the blue hair. daario naharis. that one. i'll hear him, then. when the exile knight delivered him, she asked herself whether two men had ever been so different. the tyroshi was fair where ser jorah was swarthy; lithe where the knight was brawny; graced with flowing locks where the other was balding, yet smooth-skinned where mormont was hairy. and her knight dressed plainly while this other made a peacock look drab, though he had thrown a heavy black cloak over his bright yellow finery for this visit. he carried a heavy canvas sack slung over one shoulder. khaleesi, he cried, i bring gifts and glad tidings. the stormcrows are yours. a golden tooth gleamed in his mouth when he smiled. and so is daario naharis! dany was dubious. if this tyroshi had come to spy, this declaration might be no more than a desperate plot to save his head. what do prendahl na ghezn and sailor say of this? little. daario upended the sack, and the heads of sailor the bald and prendahl na ghezn spilled out upon her carpets. my gifts to the dragon queen. viserion sniffed the blood leaking from prendahl's neck, and let loose a gout of flame that took the dead man full in the face, blackening and blistering his bloodless cheeks. drogon and rhaegal stirred at the smell of roasted meat. you did this? dany asked queasily. none other. if her dragons discomfited daario naharis, he hid it well. for all the mind he paid them, they might have been three kittens playing with a mouse. why? because you are so beautiful. his hands were large and strong, and there was something in his hard blue eyes and great curving nose that suggested the fierceness of some splendid bird of prey. prendahl talked too much and said too little. his garb, rich as it was, had seen hard wear; salt stains patterned his boots, the enamel of his nails was chipped, his lace was soiled by sweat, and she could see where the end of his cloak was fraying. and sailor picked his nose as if his snot was gold. he stood with his hands crossed at the wrists, his palms resting on the pommels of his blades; a curving dothraki arakh on his left hip, a myrish stiletto on his right. their hilts were a matched pair of golden women, naked and wanton. are you skilled in the use of those handsome blades? dany asked him. prendahl and sailor would tell you so, if dead men could talk. i count no day as lived unless i have loved a woman, slain a foeman, and eaten a fine meal... and the days that i have lived are as numberless as the stars in the sky. i make of slaughter a thing of beauty, and many a tumbler and fire dancer has wept to the gods that they might be half so quick, a quarter so graceful. i would tell you the names of all the men i have slain, but before i could finish your dragons would grow large as castles, the walls of yunkai would crumble into yellow dust, and winter would come and go and come again. dany laughed. she liked the swagger she saw in this daario naharis. draw your sword and swear it to my service. in a blink, daario 's arakh was free of its sheath. his submission was as outrageous as the rest of him, a great swoop that brought his face down to her toes. my sword is yours. my life is yours. my love is yours. my blood, my body, my songs, you own them all. i live and die at your command, fair queen. then live, dany said, and fight for me tonight. that would not be wise, my queen. ser jorah gave daario a cold, hard stare. keep this one here under guard until the battle's fought and won. she considered a moment, then shook her head. if he can give us the stormcrows, surprise is certain. and if he betrays you, surprise is lost. dany looked down at the sellsword again. he gave her such a smile that she flushed and turned away. he won't. how can you know that? she pointed to the lumps of blackened flesh the dragons were consuming, bite by bloody bite. i would call that proof of his sincerity. daario naharis, have your stormcrows ready to strike the yunkish rear when my attack begins. can you get back safely? if they stop me, i will say i have been scouting, and saw nothing. the tyroshi rose to his feet, bowed, and swept out. ser jorah mormont lingered. your grace, he said, too bluntly, that was a mistake. we know nothing of this man - we know that he is a great fighter. a great talker, you mean. he brings us the stormcrows. and he has blue eyes. five hundred sellswords of uncertain loyalty. all loyalties are uncertain in such times as these, dany reminded him. and i shall be betrayed twice more, once for gold and once for love. daenerys, i am thrice your age, ser jorah said. i have seen how false men are. very few are worthy of trust, and daario naharis is not one of them. even his beard wears false colors. that angered her. whilst you have an honest beard, is that what you are telling me? you are the only man i should ever trust? he stiffened. i did not say that. you say it every day. pyat pree's a liar, xaro's a schemer, belwas a braggart, arstan an assassin... do you think i'm still some virgin girl, that i cannot hear the words behind the words? your grace - she bulled over him. you have been a better friend to me than any i have known, a better brother than viserys ever was. you are the first of my queensguard, the commander of my army, my most valued counselor, my good right hand. i honor and respect and cherish you - but i do not desire you, jorah mormont, and i am weary of your trying to push every other man in the world away from me, so i must needs rely on you and you alone. it will not serve, and it will not make me love you any better. mormont had flushed red when she first began, but by the time dany was done his face was pale again. he stood still as stone. if my queen commands, he said, curt and cold. dany was warm enough for both of them. she does, she said. she commands. now go see to your unsullied, ser. you have a battle to fight and win. when he was gone, dany threw herself down on her pillows beside her dragons. she had not meant to be so sharp with ser jorah, but his endless suspicion had finally woken her dragon. he will forgive me, she told herself. i am his liege. dany found herself wondering whether he was right about daario. she felt very lonely all of a sudden. mirri maz duur had promised that she would never bear a living child. house targaryen will end with me. that made her sad. you must be my children, she told the dragons, my three fierce children. arstan says dragons live longer than men, so you will go on after i am dead. drogon looped his neck around to nip at her hand. his teeth were very sharp, but he never broke her skin when they played like this. dany laughed, and rolled him back and forth until he roared, his tail lashing like a whip. it is longer than it was, she saw, and tomorrow it will be longer still. they grow quickly now, and when they are grown i shall have my wings. mounted on a dragon, she could lead her own men into battle, as she had in astapor, but as yet they were still too small to bear her weight. a stillness settled over her camp when midnight came and went. dany remained in her pavilion with her maids, while arstan whitebeard and strong belwas kept the guard. the waiting is the hardest part. to sit in her tent with idle hands while her battle was being fought without her made dany feel half a child again. the hours crept by on turtle feet. even after jhiqui rubbed the knots from her shoulders, dany was too restless for sleep. missandei offered to sing her a lullaby of the peaceful people, but dany shook her head. bring me arstan, she said. when the old man came, she was curled up inside her hrakkar pelt, whose musty smell still reminded her of drogo. i cannot sleep when men are dying for me, whitebeard, she said. tell me more of my brother rhaegar, if you would. i liked the tale you told me on the ship, of how he decided that he must be a warrior. your grace is kind to say so. viserys said that our brother won many tourneys. arstan bowed his white head respectfully. it is not meet for me to deny his grace's words... but? said dany sharply. tell me. i command it. prince rhaegar's prowess was unquestioned, but he seldom entered the lists. he never loved the song of swords the way that robert did, or jaime lannister. it was something he had to do, a task the world had set him. he did it well, for he did everything well. that was his nature. but he took no joy in it. men said that he loved his harp much better than his lance. he won some tourneys, surely, said dany, disappointed. when he was young, his grace rode brilliantly in a tourney at storm's end, defeating lord steffon baratheon, lord jason mallister, the red viper of dome, and a mystery knight who proved to be the infamous simon toyne, chief of the kingswood outlaws. he broke twelve lances against ser arthur dayne that day. was he the champion, then? no, your grace. that honor went to another knight of the kingsguard, who unhorsed prince rhaegar in the final tilt. dany did not want to hear about rhaegar being unhorsed. but what tourneys did my brother win? your grace. the old man hesitated. he won the greatest tourney of them all. which was that? dany demanded. the tourney lord whent staged at harrenhal beside the gods eye, in the year of the false spring. a notable event. besides the jousting, there was a melee in the old style fought between seven teams of knights, as well as archery and axe-throwing, a horse race, a tournament of singers, a mummer show, and many feasts and frolics. lord whent was as open handed as he was rich. the lavish purses he proclaimed drew hundreds of challengers. even your royal father came to harrenhal, when he had not left the red keep for long years. the greatest lords and mightiest champions of the seven kingdoms rode in that tourney, and the prince of dragonstone bested them all. but that was the tourney when he crowned lyanna stark as queen of love and beauty! said dany. princess elia was there, his wife, and yet my brother gave the crown to the stark girl, and later stole her away from her betrothed. how could he do that? did the dornish woman treat him so ill? it is not for such as me to say what might have been in your brother's heart, your grace. the princess elia was a good and gracious lady, though her health was ever delicate. dany pulled the lion pelt tighter about her shoulders. viserys said once that it was my fault, for being born too late. she had denied it hotly, she remembered, going so far as to tell viserys that it was his fault for not being born a girl. he beat her cruelly for that insolence. if i had been born more timely, he said, rhaegar would have married me instead of elia, and it would all have come out different. if rhaegar had been happy in his wife, he would not have needed the stark girl. perhaps so, your grace. whitebeard paused a moment. but i am not certain it was in rhaegar to be happy. you make him sound so sour, dany protested. not sour, no, but... there was a melancholy to prince rhaegar, a sense... the old man hesitated again. say it, she urged. a sense... ? ... of doom. he was born in grief, my queen, and that shadow hung over him all his days. viserys had spoken of rhaegar' s birth only once. perhaps the tale saddened him too much. it was the shadow of summerhall that haunted him, was it not? yes. and yet summerhall was the place the prince loved best. he would go there from time to time, with only his harp for company. even the knights of the kingsguard did not attend him there. he liked to sleep in the ruined hall, beneath the moon and stars, and whenever he came back he would bring a song. when you heard him play his high harp with the silver strings and sing of twilights and tears and the death of kings, you could not but feel that he was singing of himself and those he loved. what of the usurper? did he play sad songs as well? arstan chuckled. robert? robert liked songs that made him laugh, the bawdier the better. he only sang when he was drunk, and then it was like to be 'a cask of ale' or 'fifty-four tuns' or 'the bear and the maiden fair.' robert was much - as one, her dragons lifted their heads and roared. horses! dany leapt to her feet, clutching the lion pelt. outside, she heard strong belwas bellow something, and then other voices, and the sounds of many horses. irri, go see who... the tent flap pushed open, and ser jorah mormont entered. he was dusty, and spattered with blood, but otherwise none the worse for battle. the exile knight went to one knee before dany and said, your grace, i bring you victory. the stormcrows turned their cloaks, the slaves broke, and the second sons were too drunk to fight, just as you said. two hundred dead, yunkai'i for the most part. their slaves threw down their spears and ran, and their sellswords yielded. we have several thousand captives. our own losses? a dozen. if that many. only then did she allow herself to smile. rise, my good brave bear. was grazdan taken? or the titan's bastard? grazdan went to yunkai to deliver your terms. ser jorah got to his feet. mero fled, once he realized the stormcrows had turned. i have men hunting him. he shouldn't escape us long. very well, dany said. sellsword or slave, spare all those who will pledge me their faith. if enough of the second sons will join us, keep the company intact. the next day they marched the last three leagues to yunkai. the city was built of yellow bricks instead of red; elsewise it was astapor all over again, with the same crumbling walls and high stepped pyramids, and a great harpy mounted above its gates. the wall and towers swarmed with crossbowmen and slingers. ser jorah and grey worm deployed her men, irri and jhiqui raised her pavilion, and dany sat down to wait. on the morning of the third day, the city gates swung open and a line of slaves began to emerge. dany mounted her silver to greet them. as they passed, little missandei told them that they owed their freedom to daenerys stormborn, the unburnt, queen of the seven kingdoms of westeros and mother of dragons. mhysa! a brown-skinned man shouted out at her. he had a child on his shoulder, a little girl, and she screamed the same word in her thin voice. mhysa! mhysa! dany looked at missandei. what are they shouting? it is ghiscari, the old pure tongue. it means 'mother. ' dany felt a lightness in her chest. i will never bear a living child, she remembered. her hand trembled as she raised it. perhaps she smiled. she must have, because the man grinned and shouted again, and others took up the cry. mhysa! they called. mhysa! mhysa! they were all smiling at her, reaching for her, kneeling before her. maela, some called her while others cried aelalla or qathei or tato, but whatever the tongue it all meant the same thing. mother. they are calling me mother. the chant grew, spread, swelled, it swelled so loud that it frightened her horse, and the mare backed and shook her head and lashed her silver-grey tail. it swelled until it seemed to shake the yellow walls of yunkai. more slaves were streaming from the gates every moment, and as they came they took up the call. they were running toward her now, pushing, stumbling, wanting to touch her hand, to stroke her horse's mane, to kiss her feet. her poor bloodriders could not keep them all away, and even strong belwas grunted and growled in dismay. ser jorah urged her to go, but dany remembered a dream she had dreamed in the house of the undying. they will not hurt me, she told him. they are my children, jorah. she laughed, put her heels into her horse, and rode to them, the bells in her hair ringing sweet victory. she trotted, then cantered, then broke into a gallop, her braid streaming behind. the freed slaves parted before her. mother, they called from a hundred throats, a thousand, ten thousand. mother, they sang, their fingers brushing her legs as she flew by. mother, mother, mother! meereen was as large as astapor and yunkai combined. like her sister cities she was built of brick, but where astapor had been red and yunkai yellow, meereen was made with bricks of many colors. her walls were higher than yunkai' s and in better repair, studded with bastions and anchored by great defensive towers at every angle. behind them, huge against the sky, could be seen the top of the great pyramid, a monstrous thing eight hundred feet tall with a towering bronze harpy at its top. the harpy is a craven thing, daario naharis said when he saw it. she has a woman's heart and a chicken's legs. small wonder her sons hide behind their walls. but the hero did not hide. he rode out the city gates, armored in scales of copper and jet and mounted upon a white charger whose striped pink- and- white barding matched the silk cloak flowing from the hero's shoulders. the lance he bore was fourteen feet long, swirled in pink and white, and his hair was shaped and teased and lacquered into two great curling ram's horns. back and forth he rode beneath the walls of multicolored bricks, challenging the besiegers to send a champion forth to meet him in single combat. her bloodriders were in such a fever to go meet him that they almost came to blows. blood of my blood, dany told them, your place is here by me. this man is a buzzing fly, no more. ignore him, he will soon be gone. aggo, jhogo, and rakharo were brave warriors, but they were young, and too valuable to risk. they kept her khalasar together, and were her best scouts too. that was wisely done, ser jorah said as they watched from the front of her pavilion. let the fool ride back and forth and shout until his horse goes lame. he does us no harm. he does, arstan whitebeard insisted. wars are not won with swords and spears alone, ser. two hosts of equal strength may come together, but one will break and run whilst the other stands. this hero builds courage in the hearts of his own men and plants the seeds of doubt in ours. ser jorah snorted. and if our champion were to lose, what sort of seed would that plant? a man who fears battle wins no victories, ser. we're not speaking of battle. meereen's gates will not open if that fool falls. why risk a life for naught? for honor, i would say. i have heard enough. dany did not need their squabbling on top of all the other troubles that plagued her. meereen posed dangers far more serious than one pink-and-white hero shouting insults, and she could not let herself be distracted. her host numbered more than eighty thousand after yunkai, but fewer than a quarter of them were soldiers. the rest... well, ser jorah called them mouths with feet, and soon they would be starving. the great masters of meereen had withdrawn before dany's advance, harvesting all they could and burning what they could not harvest. scorched fields and poisoned wells had greeted her at every hand. worst of all, they had nailed a slave child up on every milepost along the coast road from yunkai, nailed them up still living with their entrails hanging out and one arm always outstretched to point the way to meereen. leading her van, daario had given orders for the children to be taken down before dany had to see them, but she had countermanded him as soon as she was told. i will see them, she said. i will see every one, and count them, and look upon their faces. and i will remember. by the time they came to meereen sitting on the salt coast beside her river, the count stood at one hundred and sixty-three. i will have this city, dany pledged to herself once more. the pink-and-white hero taunted the besiegers for an hour, mocking their manhood, mothers, wives, and gods. meereen's defenders cheered him on from the city walls. his name is oznak zo pahl, brown ben plumm told her when he arrived for the war council. he was the new commander of the second sons, chosen by a vote of his fellow sellswords. i was bodyguard to his uncle once, before i joined the second sons. the great masters, what a ripe lot o' maggots. the women weren't so bad, though it was worth your life to look at the wrong one the wrong way. i knew a man, scarb, this oznak cut his liver out. claimed to be defending a lady's honor, he did, said scarb had raped her with his eyes. how do you rape a wench with eyes, i ask you? but his uncle is the richest man in meereen and his father commands the city guard, so i had to run like a rat before he killed me too. they watched oznak zo pahl dismount his white charger, undo his robes, pull out his manhood, and direct a stream of urine in the general direction of the olive grove where dany's gold pavilion stood among the burnt trees. he was still pissing when daario naharis rode up, arakh in hand. shall i cut that off for you and stuff it down his mouth, your grace? his tooth shone gold amidst the blue of his forked beard. it's his city i want, not his meager manhood. she was growing angry, however. if i ignore this any longer, my own people will think me weak. yet who could she send? she needed daario as much as she did her bloodriders. without the flamboyant tyroshi, she had no hold on the stormcrows, many of whom had been followers of prendahl na ghezn and sailor the bald. high on the walls of meereen, the jeers had grown louder, and now hundreds of the defenders were taking their lead from the hero and pissing down through the ramparts to show their contempt for the besiegers. they are pissing on slaves, to show how little they fear us, she thought. they would never dare such a thing if it were a dothraki khalasar outside their gates. this challenge must be met, arstan said again. it will be. dany said, as the hero tucked his penis away again. tell strong belwas i have need of him. they found the huge brown eunuch sitting in the shade of her pavilion, eating a sausage. he finished it in three bites, wiped his greasy hands clean on his trousers, and sent arstan whitebeard to fetch him his steel. the aged squire honed belwas 's arakh every evening and rubbed it down with bright red oil. when whitebeard brought the sword, strong belwas squinted down the edge, grunted, slid the blade back into its leather sheath, and tied the swordbelt about his vast waist. arstan had brought his shield as well: a round steel disk no larger than a pie plate, which the eunuch grasped with his offhand rather than strapping to his forearm in the manner of westeros. find liver and onions, whitebeard, belwas said. not for now, for after. killing makes strong belwas hungry. he did not wait for a reply, but lumbered from the olive grove toward oznak zo pahl. why that one, khaleesi? rakharo demanded of her. he is fat and stupid. strong belwas was a slave here in the fighting pits. if this highborn oznak should fall to such the great masters will be shamed, while if he wins... well, it is a poor victory for one so noble, one that meereen can take no pride in. and unlike ser jorah, daario, brown ben, and her three bloodriders, the eunuch did not lead troops, plan battles, or give her counsel. he does nothing but eat and boast and bellow at arstan. belwas was the man she could most easily spare. and it was time she learned what sort of protector magister illyrio had sent her. a thrum of excitement went through the siege lines when belwas was seen plodding toward the city, and from the walls and towers of meereen came shouts and jeers. oznak zo pahl mounted up again, and waited, his striped lance held upright. the charger tossed his head impatiently and pawed the sandy earth. as massive as he was, the eunuch looked small beside the hero on his horse. a chivalrous man would dismount, said arstan. oznak zo pahl lowered his lance and charged. belwas stopped with legs spread wide. in one hand was his small round shield, in the other the curved arakh that arstan tended with such care. his great brown stomach and sagging chest were bare above the yellow silk sash knotted about his waist, and he wore no armor but his studded leather vest, so absurdly small that it did not even cover his nipples. we should have given him chainmail, dany said, suddenly anxious. mail would only slow him, said ser jorah. they wear no armor in the fighting pits. it's blood the crowds come to see. dust flew from the hooves of the white charger. oznak thundered toward strong belwas, his striped cloak streaming from his shoulders. the whole city of meereen seemed to be screaming him on. the besiegers' cheers seemed few and thin by comparison; her unsullied stood in silent ranks, watching with stone faces. belwas might have been made of stone as well. he stood in the horse's path, his vest stretched tight across his broad back. oznak's lance was leveled at the center of his chest, its bright steel point winked in the sunlight. he's going to be impaled, she thought... as the eunuch spun sideways. and quick as the blink of an eye the horseman was beyond him, wheeling, raising the lance. belwas made no move to strike at him. the meereenese on the walls screamed even louder. what is he doing? dany demanded. giving the mob a show, ser jorah said. oznak brought the horse around belwas in a wide circle, then dug in with his spurs and charged again. again belwas waited, then spun and knocked the point of the lance aside. she could hear the eunuch's booming laughter echoing across the plain as the hero went past him. the lance is too long, ser jorah said. all belwas needs do is avoid the point. instead of trying to spit him so prettily, the fool should ride right over him. oznak zo pahl charged a third time, and now dany could see plainly that he was riding past belwas, the way a westerosi knight might ride at an opponent in a tilt, rather than at him, like a dothraki riding down a foe. the flat level ground allowed the charger to get up a good speed, but it also made it easy for the eunuch to dodge the cumbersome fourteen- foot lance. meereen's pink-and- white hero tried to anticipate this time, and swung his lance sideways at the last second to catch strong belwas when he dodged. but the eunuch had anticipated too, and this time he dropped down instead of spinning sideways. the lance passed harmlessly over his head. and suddenly belwas was rolling, and bringing the razor-sharp arakh around in a silver arc. they heard the charger scream as the blade bit into his legs, and then the horse was falling, the hero tumbling from the saddle. a sudden silence swept along the brick parapets of meereen. now it was dany's people who were screaming and cheering. oznak leapt clear of his horse and managed to draw his sword before strong belwas was on him. steel sang against steel, too fast and furious for dany to follow the blows. it could not have been a dozen heartbeats before belwas's chest was awash in blood from a slice below his breasts, and oznak zo pahl had an arakh planted right between his ram's horns. the eunuch wrenched the blade loose and parted the hero's head from his body with three savage blows to the neck. he held it up high for the meereenese to see, then flung it toward the city gates and let it bounce and roll across the sand. so much for the hero of meereen, said daario, laughing. a victory without meaning, ser jorah cautioned. we will not win meereen by killing its defenders one at a time. no, dany agreed, but i'm pleased we killed this one. the defenders on the walls began firing their crossbows at belwas, but the bolts fell short or skittered harmlessly along the ground. the eunuch turned his back on the steel-tipped rain, lowered his trousers, squatted, and shat in the direction of the city. he wiped himself with oznak's striped cloak, and paused long enough to loot the hero's corpse and put the dying horse out of his agony before trudging back to the olive grove. the besiegers gave him a raucous welcome as soon as he reached the camp. her dothraki hooted and screamed, and the unsullied sent up a great clangor by banging their spears against their shields. well done, ser jorah told him, and brown ben tossed the eunuch a ripe plum and said, a sweet fruit for a sweet fight. even her dothraki handmaids had words of praise. we would braid your hair and hang a bell in it, strong belwas, said jhiqui, but you have no hair to braid. strong belwas needs no tinkly bells. the eunuch ate brown ben's plum in four big bites and tossed aside the stone. strong belwas needs liver and onions. you shall have it, said dany. strong belwas is hurt. his stomach was red with the blood sheeting down from the meaty gash beneath his breasts. it is nothing. i let each man cut me once, before i kill him. he slapped his bloody belly. count the cuts and you will know how many strong belwas has slain. but dany had lost khal drogo to a similar wound, and she was not willing to let it go untreated. she sent missandei to find a certain yunkish freedman renowned for his skill in the healing arts. belwas howled and complained, but dany scolded him and called him a big bald baby until he let the healer stanch the wound 'with vinegar, sew it shut, and bind his chest with strips of linen soaked in fire wine. only then did she lead her captains and commanders inside her pavilion for their council. i must have this city, she told them, sitting cross-legged on a pile of cushions, her dragons all about her. irri and jhiqui poured wine. her granaries are full to bursting. there are figs and dates and olives growing on the terraces of her pyramids, and casks of salt fish and smoked meat buried in her cellars. and fat chests of gold, silver, and gemstones as well, daario reminded them. let us not forget the gemstones. i've had a look at the landward walls, and i see no point of weakness, said ser jo rah mormont. given time, we might be able to mine beneath a tower and make a breach, but what do we eat while we're digging? our stores are all but exhausted. no weakness in the landward walls? said dany. meereen stood on a jut of sand and stone where the slow brown skahazadhan flowed into slaver's bay. the city's north wall ran along the riverbank, its west along the bay shore. does that mean we might attack from the river or the sea? with three ships? we'll want to have captain groleo take a good look at the wall along the river, but unless it's crumbling that's just a wetter way to die. what if we were to build siege towers? my brother viserys told tales of such, i know they can be made. from wood, your grace, ser jorah said. the slavers have burnt every tree within twenty leagues of here. without wood, we have no trebuchets to smash the walls, no ladders to go over them, no siege towers, no turtles, and no rams. we can storm the gates with axes, to be sure, but... did you see them bronze heads above the gates? asked brown ben plumm. rows of harpy heads with open mouths? the meereenese can squirt boiling oil out them mouths, and cook your axemen where they stand. daario naharis gave grey worm a smile. perhaps the unsullied should wield the axes. boiling oil feels like no more than a warm bath to you, i have heard. this is false. grey worm did not return the smile. these ones do not feel burns as men do, yet such oil blinds and kills. the unsullied do not fear to die, though. give these ones rams, and we will batter down these gates or die in the attempt. you would die, said brown ben. at yunkai, when he took command of the second sons, he claimed to be the veteran of a hundred battles. though i will not say i fought bravely in all of them. there are old sellswords and bold sellswords, but no old bold sellswords. she saw that it was true. dany sighed. i will not throw away unsullied lives, grey worm. perhaps we can starve the city out. ser jorah looked unhappy. we'll starve long before they do, your grace. there's no food here, nor fodder for our mules and horses. i do not like this river water either. meereen shits into the skahazadhan but draws its drinking water from deep wells. already we've had reports of sickness in the camps, fever and brownleg and three cases of the bloody flux. there will be more if we remain. the slaves are weak from the march. freedmen, dany corrected. they are slaves no longer. slave or free, they are hungry and they'll soon be sick. the city is better provisioned than we are, and can be resupplied by water. your three ships are not enough to deny them access to both the river and the sea. then what do you advise, ser jorah? you will not like it. i would hear it all the same. as you wish. i say, let this city be. you cannot free every slave in the world, khaleesi. your war is in westeros. i have not forgotten westeros. dany dreamt of it some nights, this fabled land that she had never seen. if i let meereen' s old brick walls defeat me so easily, though, how will i ever take the great stone castles of westeros? as aegon did, ser jorah said, with fire. by the time we reach the seven kingdoms, your dragons will be grown. and we will have siege towers and trebuchets as well, all the things we lack here... but the way across the lands of the long summer is long and grueling, and there are dangers we cannot know. you stopped at astapor to buy an army, not to start a war. save your spears and swords for the seven kingdoms, my queen. leave meereen to the meereenese and march west for pentos. defeated? said dany, bristling. when cowards hide behind great walls, it is they who are defeated, khaleesi, ko jhogo said. her other bloodriders concurred. blood of my blood, said rakharo, when cowards hide and burn the food and fodder, great khals must seek for braver foes. this is known. it is known, jhiqui agreed, as she poured. not to me. dany set great store by ser jorah's counsel, but to leave meereen untouched was more than she could stomach. she could not forget the children on their posts, the birds tearing at their entrails, their skinny arms pointing up the coast road. ser jorah, you say we have no food left. if i march west, how can i feed my freedmen? you can't. i am sorry, khaleesi. they must feed themselves or starve. many and more will die along the march, yes. that will be hard, but there is no way to save them. we need to put this scorched earth well behind us. dany had left a trail of corpses behind her when she crossed the red waste. it was a sight she never meant to see again. no, she said. i will not march my people off to die. my children. there must be some way into this city. i know a way. brown ben plumm stroked his speckled grey-andwhite beard. sewers. sewers? what do you mean? great brick sewers empty into the skahazadhan, carrying the city's wastes. they might be a way in, for a few. that was how i escaped meereen, after scarb lost his head. brown ben made a face. the smell has never left me. i dream of it some nights. ser jorah looked dubious. easier to go out than in, it would seem to me. these sewers empty into the river, you say? that would mean the mouths are right below the walls. and closed with iron grates, brown ben admitted, though some have rusted through, else i would have drowned in shit. once inside, it is a long foul climb in pitch-dark through a maze of brick where a man could lose himself forever. the filth is never lower than waist high, and can rise over your head from the stains i saw on the walls. there's things down there too. biggest rats you ever saw, and worse things. nasty. daario naharis laughed. as nasty as you, when you came crawling out? if any man were fool enough to try this, every slaver in meereen would smell them the moment they emerged. brown ben shrugged. her grace asked if there was a way in, so i told her... but ben plumm isn't going down in them sewers again, not for all the gold in the seven kingdoms. if there's others want to try it, though, they're welcome. aggo, jhogo, and grey worm all tried to speak at once, but dany raised her hand for silence. these sewers do not sound promising. grey worm would lead his unsullied down the sewers if she commanded it, she knew; her bloodriders would do no less. but none of them was suited to the task. the dothraki were horsemen, and the strength of the unsullied was their discipline on the battlefield. can i send men to die in the dark on such a slender hope? i must think on this some more. return to your duties. her captains bowed and left her with her handmaids and her dragons. but as brown ben was leaving, viserion spread his pale white wings and flapped lazily at his head. one of the wings buffeted the sellsword in his face. the white dragon landed awkwardly with one foot on the man's head and one on his shoulder, shrieked, and flew off again. he likes you, ben said dany. and well he might. brown ben laughed. i have me a drop of the dragon blood myself, you know. you? dany was startled. plumm was a creature of the free companies, an amiable mongrel. he had a broad brown face with a broken nose and a head of nappy grey hair, and his dothraki mother had bequeathed him large, dark, almond-shaped eyes. he claimed to be part braavosi, part summer islander, part ibbenese, part qohorik, part dothraki, part dornish, and part westerosi, but this was the first she had heard of targaryen blood. she gave him a searching look and said, how could that be? well, said brown ben, there was some old plumm in the sunset kingdoms who wed a dragon princess. my grandmama told me the tale. he lived in king aegon's day. which king aegon? dany asked. five aegons have ruled in westeros. her brother's son would have been the sixth, but the usurper's men had dashed his head against a wall. five, were there? well, that's a confusion. i could not give you a number, my queen. this old plumm was a lord, though, must have been a famous fellow in his day, the talk of all the land. the thing was, begging your royal pardon, he had himself a cock six foot long. the three bells in dany's braid tinkled when she laughed. you mean inches, i think. feet, brown ben said firmly. if it was inches, who'd want to talk about it, now? your grace. dany giggled like a little girl. did your grandmother claim she'd actually seen this prodigy? that the old crone never did. she was half-ibbenese and half-qohorik, never been to westeros, my grandfather must have told her. some dothraki killed him before i was born. and where did your grandfather's knowledge come from? one of them tales told at the teat, i'd guess. brown ben shrugged. that's all i know about aegon the unnumbered or old lord plumm' s mighty manhood, i fear. i best see to my sons. go do that, dany told him. when brown ben left, she lay back on her cushions. if you were grown, she told drogon, scratching him between the horns, i'd fly you over the walls and melt that harpy down to slag. but it would be years before her dragons were large enough to ride. and when they are, who shall ride them? the dragon has three heads, but i have only one. she thought of daario. if ever there was a man who could rape a woman with his eyes... to be sure, she was just as guilty. dany found herself stealing looks at the tyroshi when her captains came to council, and sometimes at night she remembered the way his gold tooth glittered when he smiled. that, and his eyes. his bright blue eyes. on the road from yunkai, daario had brought her a flower or a sprig of some plant every evening when he made his report... to help her learn the land, he said. waspwillow, dusky roses, wild mint, lady's lace, daggerleaf, broom, prickly ben, harpy's gold... he tried to spare me the sight of the dead children too. he should not have done that, but he meant it kindly. and daario naharis made her laugh, which ser jorah never did. dany tried to imagine what it would be like if she allowed daario to kiss her, the way jorah had kissed her on the ship. the thought was exciting and disturbing, both at once. it is too great a risk. the tyroshi sellsword was not a good man, no one needed to tell her that. under the smiles and the jests he was dangerous, even cruel. sailor and prendahl had woken one morning as his partners; that very night he'd given her their heads. khal drogo could be cruel as well, and there was never a man more dangerous. she had come to love him all the same. could i love daario? what would it mean, if i took him into my bed? would that make him one of the heads of the dragon? ser jorah would be angry, she knew, but he was the one who'd said she had to take two husbands. perhaps i should marry them both and be done with it. but these were foolish thoughts. she had a city to take, and dreaming of kisses and some sellsword's bright blue eyes would not help her breach the walls of meereen. i am the blood of the dragon, dany reminded herself. her thoughts were spinning in circles, like a rat chasing its tail. suddenly she could not stand the close confines of the pavilion another moment. i want to feel the wind on my face, and smell the sea. missandei, she called, have my silver saddled. your own mount as well. the little scribe bowed. as your grace commands. shall i summon your bloodriders to guard you? we'll take arstan. i do not mean to leave the camps. she had no enemies among her children. and the old squire would not talk too much as belwas would, or look at her like daario. the grove of burnt olive trees in which she'd raised her pavilion stood beside the sea, between the dothraki camp and that of the unsullied. when the horses had been saddled, dany and her companions set out along the shoreline, away from the city. even so, she could feel meereen at her back, mocking her. when she looked over one shoulder, there it stood, the afternoon sun blazing off the bronze harpy atop the great pyramid. inside meereen the slavers would soon be reclining in their fringed tokars to feast on lamb and olives, unborn puppies, honeyed dormice and other such delicacies, whilst outside her children went hungry. a sudden wild anger filled her. i will bring you down, she swore. as they rode past the stakes and pits that surrounded the eunuch encampment, dany could hear grey worm and his sergeants running one company through a series of drills with shield, shortsword, and heavy spear. another company was bathing in the sea, clad only in white linen breechc louts. the eunuchs were very clean, she had noticed. some of her sellswords smelled as if they had not washed or changed their clothes since her father lost the iron throne, but the unsullied bathed each evening, even if they'd marched all day. when no water was available they cleansed themselves with sand, the dothraki way. the eunuchs knelt as she passed, raising clenched fists to their breasts. dany returned the salute. the tide was coming in, and the surf foamed about the feet of her silver. she could see her ships standing out to sea. balerion floated nearest; the great cog once known as saduleon, her sails furled. further out were the galleys meraxes and vhagar, formerly jo so' s prank and summer sun. they were magister illyrio's ships, in truth, not hers at all, and yet she had given them new names with hardly a thought. dragon names, and more; in old valyria before the doom, balerion, men axes, and vhagar had been gods. south of the ordered realm of stakes, pits, drills, and bathing eunuchs lay the encampments of her freedmen, a far noisier and more chaotic place. dany had armed the former slaves as best she could with weapons from astapor and yunkai, and ser jorah had organized the fighting men into four strong companies, yet she saw no one drilling here. they passed a driftwood fire where a hundred people had gathered to roast the carcass of a horse. she could smell the meat and hear the fat sizzling as the spit boys turned, but the sight only made her frown. children ran behind their horses, skipping and laughing. instead of salutes, voices called to her on every side in a babble of tongues. some of the freedmen greeted her as mother, while others begged for boons or favors. some prayed for strange gods to bless her, and some asked her to bless them instead. she smiled at them, turning right and left, touching their hands when they raised them, letting those who knelt reach up to touch her stirrup or her leg. many of the freedmen believed there was good fortune in her touch. if it helps give them courage, let them touch me, she thought. there are hard trials yet ahead... dany had stopped to speak to a pregnant woman who wanted the mother of dragons to name her baby when someone reached up and grabbed her left wrist. turning, she glimpsed a tall ragged man with a shaved head and a sunburnt face. not so hard, she started to say, but before she could finish he'd yanked her bodily from the saddle. the ground came up and knocked the breath from her, as her silver whinnied and backed away. stunned, dany rolled to her side and pushed herself onto one elbow... ... and then she saw the sword. there's the treacherous sow, he said. i knew you'd come to get your feet kissed one day. his head was bald as a melon, his nose red and peeling, but she knew that voice and those pale green eyes. i'm going to start by cutting off your teats. dany was dimly aware of missandei shouting for help. a freedman edged forward, but only a step. one quick slash, and he was on his knees, blood running down his face. mero wiped his sword on his breeches. who's next? i am. arstan whitebeard leapt from his horse and stood over her, the salt wind riffling through his snowy hair, both hands on his tall hardwood staff. grandfather, mero said, run off before i break your stick in two and bugger you with - the old man feinted with one end of the staff, pulled it back, and whipped the other end about faster than dany would have believed. the titan's bastard staggered back into the surf, spitting blood and broken teeth from the ruin of his mouth. whitebeard put dany behind him. mero slashed at his face. the old man jerked back, cat-quick. the staff thumped mero's ribs, sending him reeling. arstan splashed sideways, parried a looping cut, danced away from a second, checked a third mid-swing. the moves were so fast she could hardly follow. missandei was pulling dany to her feet when she heard a crack. she thought arstan's staff had snapped until she saw the jagged bone jutting from mero's calf. as he fell, the titan's bastard twisted and lunged, sending his point straight at the old man's chest. whitebeard swept the blade aside almost contemptuously and smashed the other end of his staff against the big man's temple. mero went sprawling, blood bubbling from his mouth as the waves washed over him. a moment later the freedmen washed over him too, knives and stones and angry fists rising and falling in a frenzy. dany turned away, sickened. she was more frightened now than when it had been happening. he would have killed me. your grace. arstan knelt. i am an old man, and shamed. he should never have gotten close enough to seize you. i was lax. i did not know him without his beard and hair. no more than i did. dany took a deep breath to stop her shaking. enemies everywhere. take me back to my tent. please. by the time mormont arrived, she was huddled in her lion pelt, drinking a cup of spice wine. i had a look at the river wall, ser jorah started. it's a few feet higher than the others, and just as strong. and the meereenese have a dozen fire hulks tied up beneath the ramparts - she cut him off. you might have warned me that the titan's bastard had escaped. he frowned. i saw no need to frighten you, your grace. i have offered a reward for his head - pay it to whitebeard. mero has been with us all the way from yunkai. he shaved his beard off and lost himself amongst the freedmen, waiting for a chance for vengeance. arstan killed him. ser jorah gave the old man a long look. a squire with a stick slew mero of braavos, is that the way of it? a stick, dany confirmed, but no longer a squire. ser jorah, it's my wish that arstan be knighted. no. the loud refusal was surprise enough. stranger still, it came from both men at once. ser jorah drew his sword. the titan's bastard was a nasty piece of work. and good at killing. who are you, old man? a better knight than you, ser, arstan said coldly. knight? dany was confused. you said you were a squire. i was, your grace. he dropped to one knee. i squired for lord swann in my youth, and at magister illyrio's behest i have served strong belwas as well. but during the years between, i was a knight in westeros. i have told you no lies, my queen. yet there are truths i have withheld, and for that and all my other sins i can only beg your forgiveness. what truths have you withheld? dany did not like this. you will tell me. now. he bowed his head. at qarth, when you asked my name, i said i was called arstan. that much was true. many men had called me by that name while belwas and i were making our way east to find you. but it is not my true name. she was more confused than angry. he has played me false, just as jorah warned me, yet he saved my life just now ser jorah flushed red. mero shaved his beard, but you grew one, didn't you? no wonder you looked so bloody familiar... you know him? dany asked the exile knight, lost. i saw him perhaps a dozen times... from afar most often, standing with his brothers or riding in some tourney. but every man in the seven kingdoms knew barristan the bold. he laid the point of his sword against the old man's neck. khaleesi, before you kneels ser barristan selmy, lord commander of the kingsguard, who betrayed your house to serve the usurper robert baratheon. the old knight did not so much as blink. the crow calls the raven black, and you speak of betrayal. why are you here? dany demanded of him. if robert sent you to kill me, why did you save my life? he served the usurper. he betrayed rhaegar's memory, and abandoned viserys to live and die in exile. yet if he wanted me dead, he need only have stood aside... i want the whole truth now, on your honor as a knight. are you the usurper's man, or mine? yours, if you will have me. ser barristan had tears in his eyes. i took robert's pardon, aye. i served him in kingsguard and council. served with the kingslayer and others near as bad, who soiled the white cloak i wore. nothing will excuse that. i might be serving in king's landing still if the vile boy upon the iron throne had not cast me aside, it shames me to admit. but when he took the cloak that the white bull had draped about my shoulders, and sent men to kill me that selfsame day, it was as though he'd ripped a caul off my eyes. that was when i knew i must find my true king, and die in his service - i can grant that wish, ser jorah said darkly. quiet, said dany. i'll hear him out. it may be that i must die a traitor's death, ser barristan said. if so, i should not die alone. before i took robert's pardon i fought against him on the trident. you were on the other side of that battle, mormont, were you not? he did not wait for an answer. your grace, i am sorry i misled you. it was the only way to keep the lannisters from learning that i had joined you. you are watched, as your brother was. lord varys reported every move viserys made, for years. whilst i sat on the small council, i heard a hundred such reports. and since the day you wed khal drogo, there has been an informer by your side selling your secrets, trading whispers to the spider for gold and promises. he cannot mean... you are mistaken. dany looked at jorah mormont. tell him he's mistaken. there's no informer. ser jorah, tell him. we crossed the dothraki sea together, and the red waste... her heart fluttered like a bird in a trap. tell him, jorah. tell him how he got it wrong. the others take you, selmy. ser jorah flung his longsword to the carpet. khaleesi, it was only at the start, before i came to know you... before i came to love... do not say that word! she backed away from him. how could you? what did the usurper promise you? gold, was it gold? the undying had said she would be betrayed twice more, once for gold and once for love. tell me what you were promised? varys said... i might go home. he bowed his head. i was going to take you home! her dragons sensed her fury. viserion roared, and smoke rose grey from his snout. drogon beat the air with black wings, and rhaegal twisted his head back and belched flame. i should say the word and burn the two of them. was there no one she could trust, no one to keep her safe? are all the knights of westeros so false as you two? get out, before my dragons roast you both. what does roast liar smell like? as foul as brown ben's sewers? go! ser barristan rose stiff and slow. for the first time, he looked his age. where shall we go, your grace? to hell, to serve king robert. dany felt hot tears on her cheeks. drogon screamed, lashing his tail back and forth. the others can have you both. go, go away forever, both of you, the next time i see your faces i'll have your traitors' heads off. she could not say the words, though. they betrayed me. but they saved me. but they lied. you go... my bear, my fierce strong bear, what will i do without him? and the old man, my brother's friend. you go... go... where? and then she knew. dany broke her fast under the persimmon tree that grew in the terrace garden, watching her dragons chase each other about the apex of the great pyramid where the huge bronze harpy once stood. meereen had a score of lesser pyramids, but none stood even half as tall. from here she could see the whole city: the narrow twisty alleys and wide brick streets, the temples and granaries, hovels and palaces, brothels and baths, gardens and fountains, the great red circles of the fighting pits. and beyond the walls was the pewter sea, the winding skahazadhan, the dry brown hills, burnt orchards, and blackened fields. up here in her garden dany sometimes felt like a god, living atop the highest mountain in the world. do all gods feel so lonely? some must, surely. missandei had told her of the lord of harmony, worshiped by the peaceful people of naath; he was the only true god, her little scribe said, the god who always was and always would be, who made the moon and stars and earth, and all the creatures that dwelt upon them. poor lord of harmony. dany pitied him. it must be terrible to be alone for all time, attended by hordes of butterfly women you could make or unmake at a word. westeros had seven gods at least, though viserys had told her that some septons, said the seven were only aspects of a single god, seven facets of a single crystal. that was just confusing. the red priests believed in two gods, she had heard, but two who were eternally at war. dany liked that even less. she would not want to be eternally at war. missandei served her duck eggs and dog sausage, and half a cup of sweetened wine mixed with the juice of a lime. the honey drew flies, but a scented candle drove them off. the flies were not so troublesome up here as they were in the rest of her city, she had found, something else she liked about the pyramid. i must remember to do something about the flies, dany said. are there many flies on naath, missandei? on naath there are butterflies, the scribe responded in the common tongue. more wine? no. i must hold court soon. dany had grown very fond of missandei. the little scribe with the big golden eyes was wise beyond her years. she is brave as well. she had to be, to survive the life she's lived. one day she hoped to see this fabled isle of naath. missandei said the peaceful people made music instead of war. they did not kill, not even animals; they ate only fruit and never flesh. the butterfly spirits sacred to their lord of harmony protected their isle against those who would do them harm. many conquerors had sailed on naath to blood their swords, only to sicken and die. the butterflies do not help them when the slave ships come raiding, though. i am going to take you home one day, missandei, dany promised. if i had made the same promise to jorah, would he still have sold me? i swear it. this one is content to stay with you, your grace. naath will be there, always. you are good to this - to me. and you to me. dany took the girl by the hand. come help me dress. jhiqui helped missandei bathe her while irri was laying out her clothes. today she wore a robe of purple samite and a silver sash, and on her head the three-headed dragon crown the tourmaline brotherhood had given her in qarth. her slippers were silver as well, with heels so high that she was always half afraid she was about to topple over. when she was dressed, missandei brought her a polished silver glass so she could see how she looked. dany stared at herself in silence. is this the face of a conqueror? so far as she could tell, she still looked like a little girl. no one was calling her daenerys the conqueror yet, but perhaps they would. aegon the conqueror had won westeros with three dragons, but she had taken meereen with sewer rats and a wooden cock, in less than a day. poor groleo. he still grieved for his ship, she knew. if a war galley could ram another ship, why not a gate? that had been her thought when she commanded the captains to drive their ships ashore. their masts had become her battering rams, and swarms of freedmen had torn their hulls apart to build mantlets, turtles, catapults, and ladders. the sellwords had given each ram a bawdy name, and it had been the mainmast of meraxes - formerly joso's prank that had broken the eastern gate. joso's cock, they called it. the fighting had raged bitter and bloody for most of a day and well into the night before the wood began to splinter and meraxes' iron figurehead, a laughing jester's face, came crashing through. dany had wanted to lead the attack herself, but to a man her captains said that would be madness, and her captains never agreed on anything. instead she remained in the rear, sitting atop her silver in a long shirt of mail. she heard the city fall from half a league away, though, when the defenders' shouts of defiance changed to cries of fear. her dragons had roared as one in that moment, filling the night with flame. the slaves are rising, she knew at once. my sewer rats have gnawed off their chains. when the last resistance had been crushed by the unsullied and the sack had run its course, dany entered her city. the dead were heaped so high before the broken gate that it took her freedmen near an hour to make a path for her silver. joso's cock and the great wooden turtle that had protected it, covered with horsehides, lay abandoned within. she rode past burned buildings and broken windows, through brick streets where the gutters were choked with the stiff and swollen dead. cheering slaves lifted bloodstained hands to her as she went by, and called her mother. in the plaza before the great pyramid, the meereenese huddled forlorn. the great masters had looked anything but great in the morning light. stripped of their jewels and their fringed tokars, they were contemptible; a herd of old men with shriveled balls and spotted skin and young men with ridiculous hair. their women were either soft and fleshy or as dry as old sticks, their face paint streaked by tears. i want your leaders, dany told them. give them up, and the rest of you shall be spared. how many? one old woman had asked, sobbing. how many must you have to spare us? one hundred and sixty-three, she answered. she had them nailed to wooden posts around the plaza, each man pointing at the next. the anger was fierce and hot inside her when she gave the command; it made her feel like an avenging dragon. but later, when she passed the men dying on the posts, when she heard their moans and smelled their bowels and blood... dany put the glass aside, frowning. it was just. it was. i did it for the children. her audience chamber was on the level below, an echoing high ceilinged room with walls of purple marble. it was a chilly place for all its grandeur. there had been a throne there, a fantastic thing of carved and gilded wood in the shape of a savage harpy. she had taken one long look and commanded it be broken up for firewood. i will not sit in the harpy's lap, she told them. instead she sat upon a simple ebony bench, it served, though she had heard the meereenese muttering that it did not befit a queen. her bloodriders were waiting for her. silver bells tinkled in their oiled braids, and they wore the gold and jewels of dead men. meereen had been rich beyond imagining. even her sellswords seemed sated, at least for now. across the room, grey worm wore the plain uniform of the unsullied, his spiked bronze cap beneath one arm. these at least she could rely on, or so she hoped... and brown ben plumm as well, solid ben with his grey- white hair and weathered face, so beloved of her dragons. and daario beside him, glittering in gold. daario and ben plumm, grey worm, irri, jhiqui, missandei... as she looked at them dany found herself wondering which of them would betray her next. the dragon has three heads. there are two men in the world who i can trust, if i can find them. i will not be alone then. we will be three against the world, like aegon and his sisters. was the night as quiet as it seemed? dany asked. it seems it was, your grace, said brown ben plumm. she was pleased. meereen had been sacked savagely, as new-fallen cities always were, but dany was determined that should end now that the city was hers. she had decreed that murderers were to be hanged, that looters were to lose a hand, and rapists their manhood. eight killers swung from the walls, and the unsullied had filled a bushel basket with bloody hands and soft red worms, but meereen was calm again. but for how long? a fly buzzed her head. dany waved it off, irritated, but it returned almost at once. there are too many flies in this city. ben plumm gave a bark of laughter. there were flies in my ale this morning. i swallowed one ofthem. flies are the dead man's revenge. daario smiled, and stroked the center prong of his beard. corpses breed maggots, and maggots breed flies. we will rid ourselves of the corpses, then. starting with those in the plaza below. grey worm, will you see to it? the queen commands, these ones obey. best bring sacks as well as shovels, worm, brown ben counseled. well past ripe, those ones. falling off those poles in bits and pieces, and crawling with... he knows. so do i. dany remembered the horror she had felt when she had seen the plaza of punishment in astapor. i made a horror just as great, but surely they deserved it. harsh justice is still justice. your grace, said missandei, ghiscari inter their honored dead in crypts below their manses, if you would boil the bones clean and return them to their kin, it would be a kindness. the widows will curse me all the same. let it be done. dany beckoned to daario. how many seek audience this morning? two have presented themselves to bask in your radiance. daario had plundered himself a whole new wardrobe in meereen, and to match it he had redyed his trident beard and curly hair a deep rich purple. it made his eyes look almost purple too, as if he were some lost valyrian. they arrived in the night on the indigo star, a trading galley out of qarth. a slaver, you mean. dany frowned. who are they? the star's master and one who claims to speak for astapor. i will see the envoy first. he proved to be a pale ferret-faced man with ropes of pearls and spun gold hanging heavy about his neck. your worship! he cried. my name is ghael. i bring greetings to the mother of dragons from king cleon of astapor, cleon the great. dany stiffened. i left a council to rule astapor. a healer, a scholar, and a priest. your worship, those sly rogues betrayed your trust. it was revealed that they were scheming to restore the good masters to power and the people to chains. great cleon exposed their plots and hacked their heads off with a cleaver, and the grateful folk of astapor have crowned him for his valor. noble ghael, said missandei, in the dialect of astapor, is this the same cleon once owned by grazdan mo ullhor? her voice was guileless, yet the question plainly made the envoy anxious. the same, he admitted. a great man. missandei leaned close to dany. he was a butcher in grazdan's kitchen, the girl whispered in her ear. it was said he could slaughter a pig faster than any man in astapor. i have given astapor a butcher king. dany felt ill, but she knew she must not let the envoy see it. i will pray that king cleon rules well and wisely. what would he have of me? ghael rubbed his mouth. perhaps we should speak more privily, your grace? i have no secrets from my captains and commanders. as you wish. great cleon bids me declare his devotion to the mother of dragons. your enemies are his enemies, he says, and chief among them are the wise masters of yunkai. he proposes a pact between astapor and meereen, against the yunkai'i. i swore no harm would come to yunkai if they released their slaves, said dany. these yunkish dogs cannot be trusted, your worship. even now they plot against you. new levies have been raised and can be seen drilling outside the city walls, warships are being built, envoys have been sent to new ghis and volantis in the west, to make alliances and hire sellswords. they have even dispatched riders to vaes dothrak to bring a khalasar down upon you. great cleon bid me tell you not to be afraid. astapor remembers. astapor will not forsake you. to prove his faith, great cleon offers to seal your alliance with a marriage. a marriage? to me? ghael smiled. his teeth were brown and rotten. great cleon will give you many strong sons. dany found herself bereft of words, but little missandei came to her rescue. did his first wife give him sons? the envoy looked at her unhappily. great cleon has three daughters by his first wife. two of his newer wives are with child. but he means to put all of them aside if the mother of dragons will consent to wed him. how noble of him, said dany. i will consider all you've said, my lord. she gave orders that ghael be given chambers for the night, somewhere lower in the pyramid. all my victories turn to dross in my hands, she thought. whatever i do, all i make is death and horror. when word of what had befallen astapor reached the streets, as it surely would, tens of thousands of newly freed meereenese slaves would doubtless decide to follow her when she went west, for fear of what awaited them if they stayed... yet it might well be that worse would await them on the march. even if she emptied every granary in the city and left meereen to starve, how could she feed so many? the way before her was fraught with hardship, bloodshed, and danger. ser jorah had warned her of that. he'd warned her of so many things... he'd... no, i will not think of jorah mormont. let him keep a little longer. i shall see this trader captain, she announced. perhaps he would have some better tidings. that proved to be a forlorn hope. the master of the indigo star was qartheen, so he wept copiously when asked about astapor. the city bleeds. dead men rot unburied in the streets, each pyramid is an armed camp, and the markets have neither food nor slaves for sale. and the poor children! king cleaver's thugs have seized every highborn boy in astapor to make new unsullied for the trade, though it will be years before they are trained. the thing that surprised dany most was how unsurprised she was. she found herself remembering eroeh, the lhazarene girl she had once tried to protect, and what had happened to her. it will be the same in meereen once i march, she thought. the slaves from the fighting pits, bred and trained to slaughter, were already proving themselves unruly and quarrelsome. they seemed to think they owned the city now, and every man and woman in it. two of them had been among the eight she'd hanged. there is no more i can do, she told herself. what do you want of me, captain? slaves, he said. my holds are full to bursting with ivory, ambergris, zorse hides, and other fine goods. i would trade them here for slaves, to sell in lys and volantis.- we have no slaves for sale, said dany. my queen? daario stepped forward. the riverside is full of meereenese, begging leave to be allowed to sell themselves to this qartheen. they are thicker than the flies. dany was shocked. they want to be slaves? the ones who come are well spoken and gently born, sweet queen. such slaves are prized. in the free cities they will be tutors, scribes, bed slaves, even healers and priests. they will sleep in soft beds, eat rich foods, and dwell in manses. here they have lost all, and live in fear and squalor. i see. perhaps it was not so shocking, if these tales of astapor were true. dany thought a moment. any man who wishes to sell himself into slavery may do so. or woman. she raised a hand. but they may not sell their children, nor a man his wife. in astapor the city took a tenth part of the price, each time a slave changed hands, missandei told her. we'll do the same, dany decided. wars were won with gold as much as swords. a tenth part. in gold or silver coin, or ivory. meereen has no need of saffron, cloves, or zorse hides. it shall be done as you command, glorious queen, said daario. my stormcrows will collect your tenth. if the stormcrows saw to the collections at least half the gold would somehow go astray, dany knew. but the second sons were just as bad, and the unsullied were as unlettered as they were incorruptible. records must be kept, she said. seek among the freedmen for men who can read, write, and do sums. his business done, the captain of the indigo star bowed and took his leave. dany shifted uncomfortably on the ebony bench. she dreaded what must come next, yet she knew she had put it off too long already. yunkai and astapor, threats of war, marriage proposals, the march west looming over all... i need my knights. i need their swords, and i need their counsel. yet the thought of seeing jorah mormont again made her feel as if she'd swallowed a spoonful of flies; angry, agitated, sick. she could almost feel them buzzing round her belly. i am the blood of the dragon. i must be strong. i must have fire in my eyes when i face them, not tears. tell belwas to bring my knights, dany commanded, before she could change her mind. my good knights. strong belwas was puffing from the climb when he marched them through the doors, one meaty hand wrapped tight around each man's arm. ser barristan walked with his head held high, but ser jorah stared at the marble floor as he approached. the one is proud, the other guilty. the old man had shaved off his white beard. he looked ten years younger without it. but her balding bear looked older than he had. they halted before the bench. strong belwas stepped back and stood with his arms crossed across his scarred chest. ser jorah cleared his throat. khaleesi.. . she had missed his voice so much, but she had to be stem. be quiet. i will tell you when to speak. she stood. when i sent you down into the sewers, part of me hoped i'd seen the last of you. it seemed a fitting end for liars, to drown in slavers' filth. i thought the gods would deal with you, but instead you returned to me. my gallant knights of westeros, an informer and a turncloak. my brother would have hanged you both. viserys, would have, anyway. she did not know what rhaegar would have done. i will admit you helped win me this city... ser jorah's mouth tightened. we won you this city. we sewer rats. be quiet, she said again.. . though there was truth to what he said. while joso's cock and the other rams were battering the city gates and her archers were firing flights of flaming arrows over the walls, dany had sent two hundred men along the river under cover of darkness to fire the hulks in the harbor. but that was only to hide their true purpose. as the flaming ships drew the eyes of the defenders on the walls, a few half- mad swimmers found the sewer mouths and pried loose a rusted iron grating. ser jorah, ser barristan, strong belwas, and twenty brave fools slipped beneath the brown water and up the brick tunnel, a mixed force of sellswords, unsullied, and freedmen. dany had told them to choose only men who had no families... and preferably no sense of smell. they had been lucky as well as brave. it had been a moon's turn since the last good rain, and the sewers were only thigh-high. the oilcloth they'd wrapped around their torches kept them dry, so they had light. a few of the freedmen were frightened of the huge rats until strong belwas caught one and bit it in two. one man was killed by a great pale lizard that reared up out of the dark water to drag him off by the leg, but when next ripples were spied ser jorah butchered the beast with his blade. they took some wrong turnings, but once they found the surface strong belwas led them to the nearest fighting pit, where they surprised a few guards and struck the chains off the slaves. within an hour, half the fighting slaves in meereen had risen. you helped win this city, she repeated stubbornly. and you have served me well in the past. ser barristan saved me from the titan's bastard, and from the sorrowful man in qarth. ser jorah saved me from the poisoner in vaes dothrak, and again from drogo's bloodriders after my sun-and-stars had died. so many people wanted her dead, sometimes she lost count. and yet you lied, deceived me, betrayed me. she turned to ser barristan. you protected my father for many years, fought beside my brother on the trident, but you abandoned viserys in his exile and bent your knee to the usurper instead. why? and tell it true. some truths are hard to hear. robert was a... a good knight... chivalrous, brave... he spared my life, and the lives of many others... prince viserys was only a boy, it would have been years before he was fit to rule, and... forgive me, my queen, but you asked for truth... even as a child, your brother viserys oft seemed to be his father's son, in ways that rhaegar never did. his father's son? dany frowned. what does that mean? the old knight did not blink. your father is called 'the mad king' in westeros. has no one ever told you? viserys did. the mad king. the usurper called him that, the usurper and his dogs. the mad king. it was a lie. why ask for truth, ser barristan said softly, if you close your ears to it? he hesitated, then continued. i told you before that i used a false name so the lannisters would not know that id joined you. that was less than half of it, your grace. the truth is, i wanted to watch you for a time before pledging you my sword. to make certain that you were not... ... my father's daughter? if she was not her father's daughter, who was she? ... mad, he finished. but i see no taint in you. taint? dany bristled. i am no maester to quote history at you, your grace. swords have been my life, not books. but every child knows that the targaryens have always danced too close to madness. your father was not the first. king jaehaerys once told me that madness and greatness are two sides of the same coin. every time a new targaryen is born, he said, the gods toss the coin in the air and the world holds its breath to see how it will land. jaehaerys. this old man knew my grandfather. the thought gave her pause. most of what she knew of westeros had come from her brother, and the rest from ser jo rah. ser barristan would have forgotten more than the two of them had ever known. this man can tell me what i came from. so i am a coin in the hands of some god, is that what you are saying, ser? no, ser barristan replied. you are the trueborn heir of westeros. to the end of my days i shall remain your faithful knight, should you find me worthy to bear a sword again. if not, i am content to serve strong belwas as his squire. what if i decide you're only worthy to be my fool? dany asked scornfully. or perhaps my cook? i would be honored, your grace, selmy said with quiet dignity. i can bake apples and boil beef as well as any man, and i've roasted many a duck over a camp fire. i hope you like them greasy, with charred skin and bloody bones. that made her smile. i'd have to be mad to eat such fare. ben plumm, come give ser barristan your longsword. but whitebeard would not take it. i flung my sword at joffrey's feet and have not touched one since. only from the hand of my queen will i accept a sword again. as you wish. dany took the sword from brown ben and offered it hilt first. the old man took it reverently. now kneel, she told him, and swear it to my service. he went to one knee and lay the blade before her as he said the words. dany scarcely heard them. he was the easy one, she thought. the other will be harder. when ser barristan was done, she turned to jorah mormont. and now you, ser. tell me true. the big man's neck was red; whether from anger or shame she did not know. i have tried to tell you true, half a hundred times. i told you arstan was more than he seemed. i warned you that xaro and pyat pree were not to be trusted. i warned you - you warned me against everyone except yourself. his insolence angered her. he should be humbler. he should beg for my forgiveness. trust no one but jorah mormont, you said... and all the time you were the spider's creature! i am no man's creature. i took the eunuch's gold, yes. i learned some ciphers and wrote some letters, but that was all - all? you spied on me and sold me to my enemies! for a time. he said it grudgingly. i stopped. when? when did you stop? i made one report from qarth, but - from qarth? dany had been hoping it had ended much earlier. what did you write from qarth? that you were my man now, that you wanted no more of their schemes? ser jorah could not meet her eyes. when khal drogo died, you asked me to go with you to yi ti and the jade sea. was that your wish or robert's? that was to protect you, he insisted. to keep you away from them. i knew what snakes they were... snakes? and what are you, ser? something unspeakable occurred to her. you told them i was carrying drogo's child... khaleesi... do not think to deny it, ser, ser barristan said sharply. i was there when the eunuch told the council, and robert decreed that her grace and her child must die. you were the source, ser. there was even talk that you might do the deed, for a pardon. a lie. ser jorah's face darkened. i would never... daenerys, it was me who stopped you from drinking the wine. yes. and how was it you knew the wine was poisoned? i... i but suspected... the caravan brought a letter from varys, he warned me there would be attempts. he wanted you watched, yes, but not harmed. he went to his knees. if i had not told them someone else would have. you know that. i know you betrayed me. she touched her belly, where her son rhaego had perished. i know a poisoner tried to kill my son, because of you. that's what i know no... no. he shook his head. i never meant... forgive me. you have to forgive me. have to? it was too late. he should have begun by begging forgiveness. she could not pardon him as she'd intended. she had dragged the wineseller behind her horse until there was nothing left of him. didn't the man who brought him deserve the same? this is jorah, my fierce bear, the right arm that never failed me. i would be dead without him, but... i can't forgive you, she said. i can't. you forgave the old man... he lied to me about his name. you sold my secrets to the men who killed my father and stole my brother's throne. i protected you. i fought for you. killed for you. kissed me, she thought, betrayed me. i went down into the sewers like a rat. for you. it might have been kinder if you'd died there. dany said nothing. there was nothing to say. daenerys, he said, i have loved you. and there it was. three treasons will you know once for blood and once for gold and once for love. the gods do nothing without a purpose, they say. you did not die in battle, so it must be they still have some use for you. but i don't. i will not have you near me. you are banished, ser. go back to your masters in king's landing and collect your pardon, if you can. or to astapor. no doubt the butcher king needs knights. no. he reached for her. daenerys, please, hear me... she slapped his hand away. do not ever presume to touch me again, or to speak my name. you have until dawn to collect your things and leave this city. if you're found in meereen past break of day, i will have strong belwas twist your head off. i will. believe that. she turned her back on him, her skirts swirling. i cannot bear to see his face. remove this liar from my sight, she commanded. i must not weep. i must not. if i weep i will forgive him. strong belwas seized ser jorah by the arm and dragged him out. when dany glanced back, the knight was walking as if drunk, stumbling and slow. she looked away until she heard the doors open and close. then she sank back onto the ebony bench. he's gone, then. my father and my mother, my brothers, ser willem darry, drogo who was my sun-and-stars, his son who died inside me, and now ser jo rah... the queen has a good heart, daario purred through his deep purple whiskers, but that one is more dangerous than all the oznaks and meros rolled up in one. his strong hands caressed the hilts of his matched blades, those wanton golden women. you need not even say the word, my radiance. only give the tiniest nod, and your daario shall fetch you back his ugly head. leave him be. the scales are balanced now. let him go home. dany pictured jorah moving amongst old gnarled oaks and tall pines, past flowering thornbushes, grey stones bearded with moss, and little creeks running icy down steep hillsides. she saw him entering a hall built of huge logs, where dogs slept by the hearth and the smell of meat and mead hung thick in the smoky air. we are done for now, she told her captains. it was all she could do not to run back up the wide marble stairs. irri helped her slip from her court clothes and into more comfortable garb; baggy woolen breeches, a loose felted tunic, a painted dothraki vest. you are trembling, khaleesi, the girl said as she knelt to lace up dany's sandals. i'm cold, dany lied. bring me the book i was reading last night. she wanted to lose herself in the words, in other times and other places. the fat leather-bound volume was full of songs and stories from the seven kingdoms. children's stories, if truth be told; too simple and fanciful to be true history. all the heroes were tall and handsome, and you could tell the traitors by their shifty eyes. yet she loved them all the same. last night she had been reading of the three princesses in the red tower, locked away by the king for the crime of being beautiful. when her handmaid brought the book, dany had no trouble finding the page where she had left off, but it was no good. she found herself reading the same passage half a dozen times. ser jorah gave me this book as a bride's gift, the day i wed khal drogo. but daario is right, i shouldn't have banished him. i should have kept him, or i should have killed him. she played at being a queen, yet sometimes she still felt like a scared little girl. viserys always said what a dolt i was. was he truly mad? she closed the book. she could still recall ser jorah, if she wished. or send daario to kill him. dany fled from the choice, out onto the terrace. she found rhaegal asleep beside the pool, a green and bronze coil basking in the sun. drogon was perched up atop the pyramid, in the place where the huge bronze harpy had stood before she had commanded it to be pulled down. he spread his wings and roared when he spied her. there was no sign of viserion, but when she went to the parapet and scanned the horizon she saw pale wings in the far distance, sweeping above the river. he is hunting. they grow bolder every day. yet it still made her anxious when they flew too far away. one day one of them may not return, she thought. your grace? she turned to find ser barristan behind her. what more would you have of me, ser? i spared you, i took you into my service, now give me some peace. forgive me, your grace. it was only... now that you know who i am... the old man hesitated. a knight of the kingsguard is in the king's presence day and night. for that reason, our vows require us to protect his secrets as we would his life. but your father's secrets by rights belong to you now, along with his throne, and... i thought perhaps you might have questions for me. questions? she had a hundred questions, a thousand, ten thousand. why couldn't she think of one? was my father truly mad? she blurted out. why do i ask that? viserys said this talk of madness was a ploy of the usurper's... viserys was a child, and the queen sheltered him as much as she could. your father always had a little madness in him, i now believe. yet he was charming and generous as well, so his lapses were forgiven. his reign began with such promise... but as the years passed, the lapses grew more frequent, until. .. dany stopped him. do i want to hear this now? ser barristan considered a moment. perhaps not. not now. not now, she agreed. one day. one day you must tell me all. the good and the bad. there is some good to be said of my father, surely? there is, your grace. of him, and those who came before him. your grandfather jaehaerys and his brother, their father aegon, your mother... and rhaegar. him most of all. i wish i could have known him. her voice was wistful. i wish he could have known you, the old knight said. when you are ready, i will tell you all. dany kissed him on the cheek and sent him on his way. that night her handmaids brought her lamb, with a salad of raisins and carrots soaked in wine, and a hot flaky bread dripping with honey. she could eat none of it. did rhaegar ever grow so weary? she wondered. did aegon, after his conquest? later, when the time came for sleep, dany took irri into bed with her, for the first time since the ship. but even as she shuddered in release and wound her fingers through her handmaid's thick black hair, she pretended it was drogo holding her... only somehow his face kept turning into daario's. if i want daario i need only say so. she lay with irri's legs entangled in her own. his eyes looked almost purple today... dany's dreams were dark that night, and she woke three times from half-remembered nightmares. after the third time she was too restless to return to sleep. moonlight streamed through the slanting windows, silvering the marble floors. a cool breeze was blowing through the open terrace doors. irri slept soundly beside her, her lips slightly parted, one dark brown nipple peeping out above the sleeping silks. for a moment dany was tempted, but it was drogo she wanted, or perhaps daario. not irri. the maid was sweet and skillful, but all her kisses tasted of duty. she rose, leaving irri asleep in the moonlight. jhiqui and missandei slept in their own beds. dany slipped on a robe and padded barefoot across the marble floor, out onto the terrace. the air was chilly, but she liked the feel of grass between her toes and the sound of the leaves whispering to one another. wind ripples chased each other across the surface of the little bathing pool and made the moon's reflection dance and shimmer. she leaned against a low brick parapet to look down upon the city. meereen was sleeping too. lost in dreams of kinder days, perhaps. night covered the streets like a black blanket, hiding the corpses and the grey rats that came up from the sewers to feast on them, the swarms of stinging flies. distant torches glimmered red and yellow where her sentries walked their rounds, and here and there she saw the faint glow of lanterns bobbing down an alley. perhaps one was ser jorah, leading his horse slowly toward the gate. farewell, old bear. farewell, betrayer. she was daenerys stormborn, the unburnt, khaleesi and queen, mother of dragons, slayer of warlocks, breaker of chains, and there was no one in the world that she could trust. your grace? missandei stood at her elbow wrapped in a bedrobe, wooden sandals on her feet. i woke, and saw that you were gone. did you sleep well? what are you looking at? my city, said dany. i was looking for a house with a red door, but by night all the doors are black. a red door? missandei was puzzled. what house is this? no house. it does not matter. dany took the younger girl by the hand. never lie to me, missandei. never betray me. i never would, missandei promised. look, dawn comes. the sky had turned a cobalt blue from the horizon to the zenith, and behind the line of low hills to the east a glow could be seen, pale gold and oyster pink. dany held missandei' s hand as they watched the sun come up. all the grey bricks became red and yellow and blue and green and orange. the scarlet sands of the fighting pits transformed them into bleeding sores before her eyes. elsewhere the golden dome of the temple of the graces blazed bright, and bronze stars winked along the walls where the light of the rising sun touched the spikes on the helms of the unsullied. on the terrace, a few flies stirred sluggishly. a bird began to chirp in the persimmon tree, and then two more. dany cocked her head to hear their song, but it was not long before the sounds of the waking city drowned them out. the sounds of my city. that morning she summoned her captains and commanders to the garden, rather than descending to the audience chamber. aegon the conqueror brought fire and blood to westeros, but afterward he gave them peace, prosperity, and justice. but all i have brought to slaver's bay is death and ruin. i have been more khal than queen, smashing and plundering, then moving on. there is nothing to stay for, said brown ben plumm. your grace, the slavers brought their doom on themselves, said daario naharis. you have brought freedom as well, missandei pointed out. freedom to starve? asked dany sharply. freedom to die? am i a dragon, or a harpy? am i mad? do i have the taint? a dragon, ser barristan said with certainty. meereen is not westeros, your grace. but how can i rule seven kingdoms if i cannot rule a single city? he had no answer to that. dany turned away from them, to gaze out over the city once again. my children need time to heal and learn. my dragons need time to grow and test their wings. and i need the same. i will not let this city go the way of astapor. i will not let the harpy of yunkai chain up those i've freed all over again. she turned back to look at their faces. i will not march.  what will you do then, khaleesi? asked rakharo. stay, she said. rule. and be a queen. 