he watched the sail grow for a long time, trying to decide whether he would sooner live or die. dying would be easier, he knew. all he had to do was crawl inside his cave and let the ship pass by, and death would find him. for days now the fever had been burning through him, turning his bowels to brown water and making him shiver in his restless sleep. each morning found him weaker. it will not be much longer, he had taken to telling himself. if the fever did not kill him, thirst surely would. he had no fresh water here, but for the occasional rainfall that pooled in hollows on the rock. only three days past (or had it been four? on his rock, it was hard to tell the days apart) his pools had been dry as old bone, and the sight of the bay rippling green and grey all around him had been almost more than he could bear. once he began to drink seawater the end would come swiftly, he knew, but all the same he had almost taken that first swallow, so parched was his throat. a sudden squall had saved him. he had grown so feeble by then that it was all he could do to lie in the rain with his eyes closed and his mouth open, and let the water splash down on his cracked lips and swollen tongue. but afterward he felt a little stronger, and the island's pools and cracks and crevices once more had brimmed with life. but that had been three days ago (or maybe four), and most of the water was gone now. some had evaporated, and he had sucked up the rest. by the morrow he would be tasting the mud again, and licking the damp cold stones at the bottom of the depressions. and if not thirst or fever, starvation would kill him. his island was no more than a barren spire jutting up out of the immensity of blackwater bay. when the tide was low, he could sometimes find tiny crabs along the stony strand where he had washed ashore after the battle. they nipped his fingers painfully before he smashed them apart on the rocks to suck the meat from their claws and the guts from their shells. but the strand vanished whenever the tide came rushing in, and davos had to scramble up the rock to keep from being swept out into the bay once more. the point of the spire was fifteen feet above the water at high tide, but when the bay grew rough the spray went even higher, so there was no way to keep dry, even in his cave (which was really no more than a hollow in the rock beneath an overhang). nothing grew on the rock but lichen, and even the seabirds shunned the place. now and again some gulls would land atop the spire and davos would try to catch one, but they were too quick for him to get close. he took to flinging stones at them, but he was too weak to throw with much force, so even when his stones hit the gulls would only scream at him in annoyance and then take to the air. there were other rocks visible from his refuge, distant stony spires taller than his own. the nearest stood a good forty feet above the water, he guessed, though it was hard to be sure at this distance. a cloud of gulls swirled about it constantly, and often davos thought of crossing over to raid their nests. but the water was cold here, the currents strong and treacherous, and he knew he did not have the strength for such a swim. that would kill him as sure as drinking seawater. autumn in the narrow sea could often be wet and rainy, he remembered from years past. the days were not bad so long as the sun was shining, but the nights were growing colder and sometimes the wind would come gusting across the bay, driving a line of whitecaps before it, and before long davos would be soaked and shivering. fever and chills assaulted him in turn, and of late he had developed a persistent racking cough. his cave was all the shelter he had, and that was little enough. driftwood and bits of charred debris would wash up on the strand during low tide, but he had no way to strike a spark or start a fire. once, in desperation, he had tried rubbing two pieces of driftwood against each other, but the wood was rotted, and his efforts earned him only blisters. his clothes were sodden as well, and he had lost one of his boots somewhere in the bay before he washed up here. thirst; hunger; exposure. they were his companions, with him every hour of every day, and in time he had come to think of them as his friends. soon enough, one or the other of his friends would take pity on him and free him from this endless misery. or perhaps he would simply walk into the water one day, and strike out for the shore that he knew lay somewhere to the north, beyond his sight. it was too far to swim, as weak as he was, but that did not matter. davos had always been a sailor; he was meant to die at sea. the gods beneath the waters have been waiting for me, he told himself. it's past time i went to them. but now there was a sail; only a speck on the horizon, but growing larger. a ship where no ship should be. he knew where his rock lay, more or less; it was one of a series of sea monts that rose from the floor of blackwater bay. the tallest of them jutted a hundred feet above the tide, and a dozen lesser monts stood thirty to sixty feet high. sailors called them spears of the merling king, and knew that for every one that broke the surface, a dozen lurked treacherously just below it. any captain with sense kept his course well away from them. davos watched the sail swell through pale red-rimmed eyes, and tried to hear the sound of the wind caught in the canvas. she is coming this way. unless she changed course soon, she would pass within hailing distance of his meager refuge. it might mean life. if he wanted it. he was not sure he did. why should i live? he thought as tears blurred his vision. gods be good, why? my sons are dead, dale and allard, marie and matthos, perhaps devan as well. how can a father outlive so many strong young sons? how would i go on? i am a hollow shell, the crab's died, there's nothing left inside. don't they know that? they had sailed up the blackwater rush flying the fiery heart of the lord of light. davos and black betha had been in the second line of battle, between dale's wraith and allard on lady marya. marie his thirdborn was oarmaster on fury, at the center of the first line, while matthos served as his father's second. beneath the walls of the red keep stannis baratheon's galleys had joined in battle with the boy king joffrey's smaller fleet, and for a few moments the river had rung to the thrum of bowstrings and the crash of iron rams shattering oars and hulls alike. and then some vast beast had let out a roar, and green flames were all around them: wildfire, pyromancer's piss, the jade demon. matthos had been standing at his elbow on the deck of black betha when the ship seemed to lift from the water. davos found himself in the river, flailing as the current took him and spun him around and around. upstream, the flames had ripped at the sky, fifty feet high. he had seen black betha afire, and fury, and a dozen other ships, had seen burning men leaping into the water to drown. wraith and lady marya were gone, sunk or shattered or vanished behind a veil of wildfire, and there was no time to look for them, because the mouth of the river was almost upon him, and across the mouth of the river the lannisters had raised a great iron chain. from bank to bank there was nothing but burning ships and wildfire. the sight of it seemed to stop his heart for a moment, and he could still remember the sound of it, the crackle of flames, the hiss of steam, the shrieks of dying men, and the beat of that terrible heat against his face as the current swept him down toward hell. all he needed to do was nothing. a few moments more, and he would be with his sons now, resting in the cool green mud on the bottom of the bay, with fish nibbling at his face. instead he sucked in a great gulp of air and dove, kicking for the bottom of the river. his only hope was to pass under the chain and the burning ships and the wildfire that floated on the surface of the water, to swim hard for the safety of the bay beyond. davos had always been a strong swimmer, and he'd worn no steel that day, but for the helm he'd lost when he'd lost black betha. as he knifed through the green murk, he saw other men struggling beneath the water, pulled down to drown beneath the weight of plate and mail. davos swam past them, kicking with all the strength left in his legs, giving himself up to the current, the water filling his eyes. deeper he went, and deeper, and deeper still. with every stroke it grew harder to hold his breath. he remembered seeing the bottom, soft and dim, as a stream of bubbles burst from his lips. something touched his leg... a snag or a fish or a drowning man, he could not tell. he needed air by then, but he was afraid. was he past the chain yet, was he out in the bay? if he came up under a ship he would drown, and if he surfaced amidst the floating patches of wildfire his first breath would sear his lungs to ash. he twisted in the water to look up, but there was nothing to see but green darkness and then he spun too far and suddenly he could no longer tell up from down. panic took hold of him. his hands flailed against the bottom of the river and sent up a cloud of mud that blinded him. his chest was growing tighter by the instant. he clawed at the water, kicking, pushing himself, turning, his lungs screaming for air, kicking, kicking, lost now in the river murk, kicking, kicking, kicking until he could kick no longer. when he opened his mouth to scream, the water came rushing in, tasting of salt, and davos seaworth knew that he was drowning. the next he knew the sun was up, and he lay upon a stony strand beneath a spire of naked stone, with the empty bay all around and a broken mast, a burned sail, and a swollen corpse beside him. the mast, the sail, and the dead man vanished with the next high tide, leaving davos alone on his rock amidst the spears of the merling king. his long years as a smuggler had made the waters around king's landing more familiar to him than any home he'd ever had, and he knew his refuge was no more than a speck on the charts, in a place that honest sailors steered away from, not toward... though davos himself had come by it once or twice in his smuggling days, the better to stay unseen. when they find me dead here, if ever they do, perhaps they will name the rock for me, he thought. onion rock, they'll call it; it will be my tombstone and my legacy. he deserved no more. the father protects his children, the septons taught, but davos had led his boys into the fire. dale would never give his wife the child they had prayed for, and allard, with his girl in oldtown and his girl in king's landing and his girl in braavos, they would all be weeping soon. matthos would never captain his own ship, as he'd dreamed. marie would never have his knighthood. how can i live when they are dead? so many brave knights and mighty lords have died, better men than me, and highborn. crawl inside your cave, davos. crawl inside and shrink up small and the ship will go away, and no one will trouble you ever again. sleep on your stone pillow, and let the gulls peck out your eyes while the crabs feast on your flesh. you've feasted on enough of them, you owe them. hide, smuggler. hide, and be quiet, and die. the sail was almost on him. a few moments more, and the ship would be safely past, and he could die in peace. his hand reached for his throat, fumbling for the small leather pouch he always wore about his neck. inside he kept the bones of the four fingers his king had shortened for him, on the day he made davos a knight. my luck. his shortened fingers patted at his chest, groping, finding nothing. the pouch was gone, and the fingerbones with them. stannis could never understand why he'd kept the bones. to remind me of my king's justice, he whispered through cracked lips. but now they were gone. the fire took my luck as well as my sons. in his dreams the river was still aflame and demons danced upon the waters with fiery whips in their hands, while men blackened and burned beneath the lash. mother, have mercy, davos prayed. save me, gentle mother, save us all. my luck is gone, and my sons. he was weeping freely now, salt tears streaming down his cheeks. the fire took it all... the fire... perhaps it was only wind blowing against the rock, or the sound of the sea on the shore, but for an instant davos seaworth heard her answer. you called the fire, she whispered, her voice as faint as the sound of waves in a seashell, sad and soft. you burned us... burned us... burrrmed usssssss. it was her! davos cried. mother, don't forsake us. it was her who burned you, the red woman, melisandre, her! he could see her; the heart-shaped face, the red eyes, the long coppery hair, her red gowns moving like flames as she walked, a swirl of silk and satin. she had come from asshai in the east, she had come to dragonstone and won selsye and her queen's men for her alien god, and then the king, stannis baratheon himself. he had gone so far as to put the fiery heart on his banners, the fiery heart of r'hllor, lord of light and god of flame and shadow. at melisandre's urging, he had dragged the seven from their sept at dragonstone and burned them before the castle gates, and later he had burned the godswood at storm's end as well, even the heart tree, a huge white weirwood with a solemn face. it was her work, davos said again, more weakly. her work, and yours, onion knight. you rowed her into storm's end in the black of night, so she might loose her shadow child. you are not guiltless, no. you rode beneath her banner and flew it from your mast. you watched the seven burn at dragonstone, and did nothing. she gave the father's justice to the fire, and the mother's mercy, and the wisdom of the crone. smith and stranger, maid and warrior, she burnt them all to the glory of her cruel god, and you stood and held your tongue. even when she killed old maester cressen, even then, you did nothing. the sail was a hundred yards away and moving fast across the bay. in a few more moments it would be past him, and dwindling. ser davos seaworth began to climb his rock. he pulled himself up with trembling hands, his head swimming with fever. twice his maimed fingers slipped on the damp stone and he almost fell, but somehow he managed to cling to his perch, if he fell he was dead, and he had to live. for a little while more, at least. there was something he had to do. the top of the rock was too small to stand on safely, as weak as he was, so he crouched and waved his fleshless arms. ship, he screamed into the wind. ship, here, here! from up here, he could see her more clearly; the lean striped hull, the bronze figurehead, the billowing sail. there was a name painted on her hull, but davos had never learned to read. ship, he called again, help me, help me! a crewman on her forecastle saw him and pointed. he watched as other sailors moved to the gunwale to gape at him. a short while later the galley's sail came down, her oars slid out, and she swept around toward his refuge. she was too big to approach the rock closely, but thirty yards away she launched a small boat. davos clung to his rock and watched it creep toward him. four men were rowing, while a fifth sat in the prow. you, the fifth man called out when they were only a few feet from his island, you up on the rock. who are you? a smuggler who rose above himself, thought davos, a fool who loved his king too much, and forgot his gods. his throat was parched, and he had forgotten how to talk. the words felt strange on his tongue and sounded stranger in his ears. i was in the battle. i was... a captain, a... a knight, i was a knight. aye, ser, the man said, and serving which king? the galley might be joffrey's, he realized suddenly. if he spoke the wrong name now, she would abandon him to his fate. but no, her hull was striped. she was lysene, she was salladhor saan's. the mother sent her here, the mother in her mercy. she had a task for him. stannis lives, he knew then. i have a king still. and sons, i have other sons, and a wife loyal and loving. how could he have forgotten? the mother was merciful indeed. stannis, he shouted back at the lyseni. gods be good, i serve king stannis. aye, said the man in the boat, and so do we. when he came up on deck, the long point of driftmark was dwindling behind them while dragonstone rose from the sea ahead. a pale grey wisp of smoke blew from the top of the mountain to mark where the island lay. dragonmont is restless this morning, davos thought, or else melisandre is burning someone else. melisandre had been much in his thoughts as shayala's dance made her way across blackwater bay and through the gullet, tacking against perverse contrary winds. the great fire that burned atop the sharp point watchtower at the end of massey's hook reminded him of the ruby she wore at her throat, and when the world turned red at dawn and sunset the drifting clouds turned the same color as the silks and satins of her rustling gowns. she would be waiting on dragonstone as well, waiting in all her beauty and all her power, with her god and her shadows and his king. the red priestess had always seemed loyal to stannis, until now. she has broken him, as a man breaks a horse. she would ride him to power if she could, and for that she gave my sons to the fire. i will cut the living heart from her breast and see how it burns. he touched the hilt of the fine long lysene dirk that the captain had given him. the captain had been very kind to him. his name was khorane sathmantes, a lyseni like salladhor saan, whose ship this was. he had the pale blue eyes you often saw on lys, set in a bony weatherworn face, but he had spent many years trading in the seven kingdoms. when he learned that the man he had plucked from the sea was the celebrated onion knight, he gave him the use of his own cabin and his own clothes, and a pair of new boots that almost fit. he insisted that davos share his provisions as well, though that turned out badly. his stomach could not tolerate the snails and lampreys and other rich food captain khorane so relished, and after his first meal at the captain's table he spent the rest of the day with one end or the other dangling over the rail. dragonstone loomed larger with every stroke of the oars. davos could see the shape of the mountain now, and on its side the great black citadel with its gargoyles and dragon towers. the bronze figurehead at the bow of shayala's dance sent up wings of salt spray as it cut the waves. he leaned his weight against the rail, grateful for its support. his ordeal had weakened him. if he stood too long his legs shook, and sometimes he fell prey to uncontrollable fits of coughing and brought up gobs of bloody phlegm. it is nothing, he told himself. surely the gods did not bring me safe through fire and sea only to kill me with a flux. as he listened to the pounding of the oarmaster's drum, the thrum of the sail, and the rhythmic swish and creak of the oars, he thought back to his younger days, when these same sounds woke dread in his heart on many a misty mom. they heralded the approach of old ser tristimun's sea watch, and the sea watch was death to smugglers when aerys targaryen sat the iron throne. but that was another lifetime, he thought. that was before the onion ship, before storm's end, before stannis shortened my fingers. that was before the war or the red comet, before i was a seaworth or a knight. i was a different man in those days, before lord stannis raised me high. captain khorane had told him of the end of stannis's hopes, on the night the river burned. the lannisters had taken him from the flank, and his fickle bannermen had abandoned him by the hundreds in the hour of his greatest need. king renly's shade was seen as well, the captain said, slaying right and left as he led the lion lord's van. it's said his green armor took a ghostly glow from the wildfire, and his antlers ran with golden flames. renly's shade. davos wondered if his sons would return as shades as well. he had seen too many queer things on the sea to say that ghosts did not exist. did none keep faith? he asked. some few, the captain said. the queen's kin, them in chief. we took off many who wore the fox-and-flowers, though many more were left ashore, with all manner of badges. lord florent is the king's hand on dragonstone now. the mountain grew taller, crowned all in pale smoke. the sail sang, the drum beat, the oars pulled smoothly, and before very long the mouth of the harbor opened before them. so empty, davos thought, remembering how it had been before, with the ships crowding every quay and rocking at anchor off the breakwater. he could see salladhor saan's flagship valyrian moored at the quay where fury and her sisters had once tied up. the ships on either side of her had striped lysene hulls as well. in vain he looked for any sign of lady marya or wraith. they pulled down the sail as they entered the harbor, to dock on oars alone. the captain came to davos as they were tying up. my prince will wish to see you at once. a fit of coughing seized davos as he tried to answer. he clutched the rail for support and spat over the side. the king, he wheezed. i must go to the king. for where the king is, i will find melisandre. no one goes to the king, khorane sathmantes replied firmly. salladhor saan will tell you. him first. davos was too weak to defy him. he could only nod. salladhor saan was not aboard his valyrian. they found him at another quay a quarter mile distant, down in the hold of a big-bellied pentoshi cog named bountiful harvest, counting cargo with two eunuchs. one held a lantern, the other a wax tablet and stylus. thirty-seven, thirty- eight, thirty-nine, the old rogue was saying when davos and the captain came down the hatch. today he wore a wine-colored tunic and high boots of bleached white leather inlaid with silver scrollwork. pulling the stopper from a jar, he sniffed, sneezed, and said, a coarse grind, and of the second quality, my nose declares. the bill of lading is saying forty-three jars. where have the others gotten to, i am wondering? these pentoshi, do they think i am not counting? when he saw davos he stopped suddenly. is it pepper stinging my eyes, or tears? is this the knight of the onions who stands before me? no, how can it be, my dear friend davos died on the burning river, all agree. why has he come to haunt me? i am no ghost, salla. what else? my onion knight was never so thin or so pale as you. salladhor saan threaded his way between the jars of spice and bolts of cloth that filled the hold of the merchanter, wrapped davos in a fierce embrace, then kissed him once on each cheek and a third time on his forehead. you are still warm, ser, and i feel your heart thumpetythumping. can it be true? the sea that swallowed you has spit you up again. davos was reminded of patchface, princess shireen's lackwit fool. he had gone into the sea as well, and when he came out he was mad. am i mad as well? he coughed into a gloved hand and said, i swam beneath the chain and washed ashore on a spear of the merling king. i would have died there, if shayala's dance had not come upon me. salladhor saan threw an arm around the captain's shoulders. this was well done, khorane. you will be having a fine reward, i am thinking. meizo mahr, be a good eunuch and take my friend davos to the owner's cabin. fetch him some hot wine with cloves, i am misliking the sound of that cough. squeeze some lime in it as well. and bring white cheese and a bowl of those cracked green olives we counted earlier! davos, i will join you soon, once i have bespoken our good captain. you will be forgiving me, i know. do not eat all the olives, or i must be cross with you! davos let the elder of the two eunuchs escort him to a large and lavishly furnished cabin at the stem of the ship. the carpets were deep, the windows stained glass, and any of the great leather chairs would have seated three of davos quite comfortably. the cheese and olives arrived shortly, and a cup of steaming hot red wine. he held it between his hands and sipped it gratefully. the warmth felt soothing as it spread through his chest. salladhor saan appeared not long after. you must be forgiving me for the wine, my friend. these pentoshi would drink their own water if it were purple. it will help my chest, said davos. hot wine is better than a compress, my mother used to say. you shall be needing compresses as well, i am thinking. sitting on a spear all this long time, oh my. how are you finding that excellent chair? he has fat cheeks, does he not? who? asked davos, between sips of hot wine. illyrio mopatis. a whale with whiskers, i am telling you truly. these chairs were built to his measure, though he is seldom bestirring himself from pentos to sit in them. a fat man always sits comfortably, i am thinking, for he takes his pillow with him wherever he goes. how is it you come by a pentoshi ship? asked davos. have you gone pirate again, my lord? he set his empty cup aside. vile calumny. who has suffered more from pirates than salladhor saan? i ask only what is due me. much gold is owed, oh yes, but i am not without reason, so in place of coin i have taken a handsome parchment, very crisp. it bears the name and seal of lord alester florent, the hand of the king. i am made lord of blackwater bay, and no vessel may be crossing my lordly waters without my lordly leave, no. and when these outlaws are trying to steal past me in the night to avoid my lawful duties and customs, why, they are no better than smugglers, so i am well within my rights to seize them. the old pirate laughed. i cut off no man's fingers, though. what good are bits of fingers? the ships i am taking, the cargoes, a few ransoms, nothing unreasonable. he gave davos a sharp look. you are unwell, my friend. that cough... and so thin, i am seeing your bones through your skin. and yet i am not seeing your little bag of fingerbones... old habit made davos reach for the leather pouch that was no longer there. i lost it in the river. my luck. the river was terrible, salladhor saan said solemnly. even from the bay, i was seeing, and shuddering. davos coughed, spat, and coughed again. i saw black betha burning, and fury as well, he finally managed, hoarsely. did none of our ships escape the fire? part of him still hoped. lord steffon, ragged jenna, swift sword, laughing lord, and some others were upstream of the pyromancers' pissing, yes. they did not burn, but with the chain raised, neither could they be flying. some few were surrendering. most rowed far up the blackwater, away from the battling, and then were sunk by their crews so they would not be falling into lannister hands. ragged jenna and laughing lord are still playing pirate on the river, i have heard, but who can say if it is so? lady marya? davos asked. wraith? salladhor saan put a hand on davos's forearm and gave a squeeze. no. of them, no. i am sorry, my friend. they were good men, your dale and allard. but this comfort i can give you- your young devan was among those we took off at the end. the brave boy never once left the king's side, or so they say. for a moment he felt almost dizzy, his relief was so palpable. he had been afraid to ask about devan. the mother is merciful. i must go to him, salla. i must see him. yes, said salladhor saan. and you will be wanting to sail to cape wrath, i know, to see your wife and your two little ones. you must be having a new ship, i am thinking. his grace will give me a ship, said davos. the lyseni shook his head. of ships, his grace has none, and salladhor saan has many. the king's ships burned up on the river, but not mine. you shall have one, old friend. you will sail for me, yes? you will dance into braavos and myr and volantis in the black of night, all unseen, and dance out again with silks and spices. we will be having fat purses, yes. you are kind, salla, but my duty's to my king, not your purse. the war will go on. stannis is still the rightful heir by all the laws of the seven kingdoms. all the laws are not helping when all the ships burn up, i am thinking. and your king, well, you will be finding him changed, i am fearing. since the battle, he sees no one, but broods in his stone drum. queen selyse keeps court for him with her uncle the lord alester, who is naming himself the hand. the king's seal she has given to this uncle, to fix to the letters he writes, even to my pretty parchment. but it is a little kingdom they are ruling, poor and rocky, yes. there is no gold, not even a little bit to pay faithful salladhor saan what is owed him, and only those knights that we took off at the end, and no ships but my little brave few. a sudden racking cough bent davos over. salladhor saan moved to help him, but he waved him off, and after a moment he recovered. no one? he wheezed. what do you mean, he sees no one? his voice sounded wet and thick, even in his own ears, and for a moment the cabin swam dizzily around him. no one but her, said salladhor saan, and davos did not have to ask who he meant. my friend, you tire yourself. it is a bed you are needing, not salladhor saan. a bed and many blankets, with a hot compress for your chest and more wine and cloves. davos shook his head. i will be fine. tell me, salla, i must know. no one but melisandre? the lyseni gave him a long doubtful look, and continued reluctantly. the guards keep all others away, even his queen and his little daughter. servants bring meals that no one eats. he leaned forward and lowered his voice. queer talking i have heard, of hungry fires within the mountain, and how stannis and the red woman go down together to watch the flames. there are shafts, they say, and secret stairs down into the mountain's heart, into hot places where only she may walk unburned. it is enough and more to give an old man such terrors that sometimes he can scarcely find the strength to eat. melisandre. davos shivered. the red woman did this to him, he said. she sent the fire to consume us, to punish stannis for setting her aside, to teach him that he could not hope to win without her sorceries. the lyseni chose a plump olive from the bowl between them. you are not the first to be saying this, my friend. but if i am you, i am not saying it so loudly. dragonstone crawls with these queen's men, oh yes, and they have sharp ears and sharper knives. he popped the olive into his mouth. i have a knife myself. captain khorane made me a gift of it. he pulled out the dirk and laid it on the table between them. a knife to cut out melisandre's heart. if she has one. salladhor saan spit out an olive pit. davos, good davos, you must not be saying such things, even in jest. no jest. i mean to kill her. if she can be killed by mortal weapons. davos was not certain that she could. he had seen old maester cressen slip poison into her wine, with his own eyes he had seen it, but when they both drank from the poisoned cup it was the maester who died, not the red priestess. a knife in the heart, though... even demons can be killed by cold iron, the singers say. these are dangerous talkings, my friend, salladhor saan warned him. i am thinking you are still sick from the sea. the fever has cooked your wits, yes. best you are taking to your bed for a long resting, until you are stronger. until my resolve weakens, you mean. davos got to his feet. he did feel feverish and a little dizzy, but it did not matter. you are a treacherous old rogue, salladhor saan, but a good friend all the same. the lyseni stroked his pointed silver beard. so with this great friend you will be staying, yes? no, i will be going. he coughed. go? look at you! you cough, you tremble, you are thin and weak. where will you be going? to the castle. my bed is there, and my son. and the red woman, salladhor saan said suspiciously. she is in the castle also. her too. davos slid the dirk back into its sheath. you are an onion smuggler, what do you know of skulkings and stabbings? and you are ill, you cannot even hold the dirk. do you know what will be happening to you, if you are caught? while we were burning on the river, the queen was burning traitors. servants of the dark, she named them, poor men, and the red woman sang as the fires were lit. davos was unsurprised. i knew, he thought, i knew before he told me. she took lord sunglass from the dungeons, he guessed, and hubard rambton's sons. just so, and burned them, as she will burn you. if you kill the red woman, they will burn you for revenge, and if you fail to kill her, they will burn you for the trying. she will sing and you will scream, and then you will die. and you have only just come back to life! and this is why, said davos. to do this thing. to make an end of melisandre of asshai and all her works. why else would the sea have spit me out? you know blackwater bay as well as i do, salla. no sensible captain would ever take his ship through the spears of the merling king and risk ripping out his bottom. shayala's dance should never have come near me. a wind, insisted salladhor saan loudly, an ill wind, is all. a wind drove her too far to the south. and who sent the wind? salla, the mother spoke to me. the old lyseni blinked at him. your mother is dead... the mother. she blessed me with seven sons, and yet i let them burn her. she spoke to me. we called the fire, she said. we called the shadows too. i rowed melisandre into the bowels of storm's end and watched her birth a horror. he saw it still in his nightmares, the gaunt black hands pushing against her thighs as it wriggled free of her swollen womb. she killed cressen and lord renly and a brave man named conray penrose, and she killed my sons as well. now it is time someone killed her. someone, said salladhor saan. yes, just so, someone. but not you. you are weak as a child, and no warrior. stay, i beg you, we will talk more and you will eat, and perhaps we will sail to braavos and hire a faceless man to do this thing, yes? but you, no, you must sit and eat. he is making this much harder, thought davos wearily, and it was perishingly hard to begin with. i have vengeance in my belly, salla. it leaves no room for food. let me go now. for our friendship, wish me luck and let me go. salladhor saan pushed himself to his feet. you are no true friend, i am thinking. when you are dead, who will be bringing your ashes and bones back to your lady wife and telling her that she has lost a husband and four sons? only sad old salladhor saan. but so be it, brave ser knight, go rushing to your grave. i will gather your bones in a sack and give them to the sons you leave behind, to wear in little bags around their necks. he waved an angry hand, with rings on every finger. go, go, go, go, go. davos did not want to leave like this. salla - go. or stay, better, but if you are going, go. he went. his walk up from the bountiful harvest to the gates of dragonstone was long and lonely. the dockside streets where soldiers and sailors and smallfolk had thronged were empty and deserted. where once he had stepped around squealing pigs and naked children, rats scurried. his legs felt like pudding beneath him, and thrice the coughing racked him so badly that he had to stop and rest. no one came to help him, nor even peered through a window to see what was the matter. the windows were shuttered, the doors barred, and more than half the houses displayed some mark of mourning. thousands sailed up the blackwater rush, and hundreds came back, davos reflected. my sons did not die alone. may the mother have mercy on them all. when he reached the castle gates, he found them shut as well. davos pounded on the iron- studded wood with his fist. when there was no answer, he kicked at it, again and again. finally a crossbowman appeared atop the barbican, peering down between two towering gargoyles. who goes there? he craned his head back and cupped his hands around his mouth. ser davos seaworth, to see his grace. are you drunk? go away and stop that pounding. salladhor saan had warned him. davos tried a different tack. send for my son, then. devan, the king's squire. the guard frowned. who did you say you were? davos, he shouted. the onion knight. the head vanished, to return a moment later. be off with you. the onion knight died on the river. his ship burned. his ship burned, davos agreed, but he lived, and here he stands. is jate still captain of the gate? who? jate blackberry. he knows me well enough. i never heard of him. most like he's dead. lord chyttering, then. that one i know. he burned on the blackwater. hookface will? hal the hog? dead and dead, the crossbowman said, but his face betrayed a sudden doubt. you wait there. he vanished again. davos waited. gone, all gone, he thought dully, remembering how fat hal's white belly always showed beneath his grease-stained doublet, the long scar the fish hook had left across will's face, the way jate always doffed his cap at the women, be they five or fifty, highborn or low. drowned or burned, with my sons and a thousand others, gone to make a king in hell. suddenly the crossbowman was back. go round to the sally port and they'll admit you. davos did as he was bid. the guards who ushered him inside were strangers to him. they carried spears, and on their breasts they wore the fox-and- flowers sigil of house flo rent. they escorted him not to the stone drum, as he'd expected, but under the arch of the dragon's tail and down to aegon's garden. wait here, their sergeant told him. does his grace know that i've returned? asked davos. bugger all if i know. wait, i said. the man left, taking his spearmen with him. aegon's garden had a pleasant piney smell to it, and tall dark trees rose on every side. there were wild roses as well, and towering thorny hedges, and a boggy spot where cranberries grew. why have they brought me here? davos wondered. then he heard a faint ringing of bells, and a child's giggle, and suddenly the fool patchface popped from the bushes, shambling along as fast as he could go with the princess shireen hot on his heels. you come back now, she was shouting after him. patches, you come back. when the fool saw davos, he jerked to a sudden halt, the bells on his antlered tin helmet going ting-a-ling, ting-a-ling. hopping from one foot to the other, he sang, fool's blood, king's blood, blood on the maiden's thigh, but chains for the guests and chains for the bridegroom, aye aye aye. shireen almost caught him then, but at the last instant he hopped over a patch of bracken and vanished among the trees. the princess was right behind him. the sight of them made davos smile. he had turned to cough into his gloved hand when another small shape crashed out of the hedge and bowled right into him, knocking him off his feet. the boy went down as well, but he was up again almost at once. what are you doing here? he demanded as he brushed himself off. jet-black hair fell to his collar, and his eyes were a startling blue. you shouldn't get in my way when i'm running. no, davos agreed. i shouldn't. another fit of coughing seized him as he struggled to his knees. are you unwell? the boy took him by the arm and pulled him to his feet. should i summon the maester? davos shook his head. a cough. it will pass. the boy took him at his word. we were playing monsters and maidens, he explained. i was the monster. it's a childish game but my cousin likes it. do you have a name? ser davos seaworth. the boy looked him up and down dubiously. are you certain? you don't look very knightly. i am the knight of the onions, my lord. the blue eyes blinked. the one with the black ship? you know that tale? you brought my uncle stannis fish to eat before i was born, when lord tyrell had him under siege. the boy drew himself up tall. i am edric storm, he announced. king robert's son. of course you are. davos had known that almost at once. the lad had the prominent ears of a florent, but the hair, the eyes, the jaw, the cheekbones, those were all baratheon. did you know my father? edric storm demanded. i saw him many a time while calling on your uncle at court, but we never spoke. my father taught me to fight, the boy said proudly. he came to see me almost every year, and sometimes we trained together. on my last name day he sent me a warhammer just like his, only smaller. they made me leave it at storm's end, though. is it true my uncle stannis cut off your fingers? only the last joint. i still have fingers, only shorter. show me. davos peeled his glove off. the boy studied his hand carefully. he did not shorten your thumb? no. davos coughed. no, he left me that. he should not have chopped any of your fingers, the lad decided. that was ill done. i was a smuggler. yes, but you smuggled him fish and onions. lord stannis knighted me for the onions, and took my fingers for the smuggling. he pulled his glove back on. my father would not have chopped your fingers. as you say, my lord. robert was a different man than stannis, true enough. the boy is like him. aye, and like renly as well. that thought made him anxious. the boy was about to say something more when they heard steps. davos turned. ser axell florent was coming down the garden path with a dozen guards in quilted jerkins. on their breasts they wore the fiery heart of the lord of light. queen's men, davos thought. a cough came on him suddenly. ser axell was short and muscular, with a barrel chest, thick arms, bandy legs, and hair growing from his ears. the queen's uncle, he had served as castellan of dragonstone for a decade, and had always treated davos courteously, knowing he enjoyed the favor of lord stannis. but there was neither courtesy nor warmth in his tone as he said, ser davos, and undrowned. how can that be? onions float, ser. have you come to take me to the king? i have come to take you to the dungeon. ser axell waved his men forward. seize him, and take his dirk. he means to use it on our lady. the cell was warmer than any cell had a right to be. it was dark, yes. flickering orange light fell through the ancient iron bars from the torch in the sconce on the wall outside, but the back half of the cell remained drenched in gloom. it was dank as well, as might be expected on an isle such as dragonstone, where the sea was never far. and there were rats, as many as any dungeon could expect to have and a few more besides. but davos could not complain of chill. the smooth stony passages beneath the great mass of dragonstone were always warm, and davos had often heard it said they grew warmer the farther down one went. he was well below the castle, he judged, and the wall of his cell often felt warm to his touch when he pressed a palm against it. perhaps the old tales were true, and dragonstone was built with the stones of hell. he was sick when they first brought him here. the cough that had plagued him since the battle grew worse, and a fever took hold of him as well. his lips broke with blood blisters, and the warmth of the cell did not stop his shivering. i will not linger long, he remembered thinking. i will die soon, here in the dark. davos soon found that he was wrong about that, as about so much else. dimly he remembered gentle hands and a firm voice, and young maester pylos looking down on him. he was given hot garlic broth to drink, and milk of the poppy to take away his aches and shivers. the poppy made him sleep and while he slept they leeched him to drain off the bad blood. or so he surmised, by the leech marks on his arms when he woke. before very long the coughing stopped, the blisters vanished, and his broth had chunks of whitefish in it, and carrots and onions as well. and one day he realized that he felt stronger than he had since black betha shattered beneath him and flung him in the river. he had two gaolers to tend him. one was broad and squat, with thick shoulders and huge strong hands. he wore a leather brigantine dotted with iron studs, and once a day brought davos a bowl of oaten porridge. sometimes he sweetened it with honey or poured in a bit of milk. the other gaoler was older, stooped and sallow, with greasy unwashed hair and pebbled skin. he wore a doublet of white velvet with a ring of stars worked upon the breast in golden thread. it fit him badly, being both too short and too loose, and was soiled and torn besides. he would bring davos plates of meat and mash, or fish stew, and once even half a lamprey pie. the lamprey was so rich he could not keep it down, but even so, it was a rare treat for a prisoner in a dungeon. neither sun nor moon shone in the dungeons; no windows pierced the thick stone walls. the only way to tell day from night was by his gaolers. neither man would speak to him, though he knew they were no mutes; sometimes he heard them exchange a few brusque words as the watch was changing. they would not even tell him their names, so he gave them names of his own. the short strong one he called porridge, the stooped sallow one lamprey, for the pie. he marked the passage of days by the meals they brought, and by the changing of the torches in the sconce outside his cell. a man grows lonely in the dark, and hungers for the sound of a human voice. davos would talk to the gaolers whenever they came to his cell, whether to bring him food or change his slops pail. he knew they would be deaf to pleas for freedom or mercy; instead he asked them questions, hoping perhaps one day one might answer. what news of the war? he asked, and is the king well? he asked after his son devan, and the princess shireen, and salladhor saan. what is the weather like? he asked, and have the autumn storms begun yet? do ships still sail the narrow sea? it made no matter what he asked; they never answered, though sometimes porridge gave him a look, and for half a heartbeat davos would think that he was about to speak. with lamprey there was not even that much. i am not a man to him, davos thought, only a stone that eats and shits and speaks. he decided after a while that he liked porridge much the better. porridge at least seemed to know he was alive, and there was a queer sort of kindness to the man. davos suspected that he fed the rats; that was why there were so many. once he thought he heard the gaoler talking to them as if they were children, but perhaps he'd only dreamed that. they do not mean to let me die, he realized. they are keeping me alive, for some purpose of their own. he did not like to think what that might be. lord sunglass had been confined in the cells beneath dragonstone for a time, as had ser hubard rambton's sons; all of them had ended on the pyre. i should have given myself to the sea, davos thought as he sat staring at the torch beyond the bars. or let the sail pass me by, to perish on my rock. i would sooner feed crabs than flames. then one night as he was finishing his supper, davos felt a queer flush come over him. he glanced up through the bars, and there she stood in shimmering scarlet with her great ruby at her throat, her red eyes gleaming as bright as the torch that bathed her. melisandre, he said, with a calm he did not feel. onion knight, she replied, just as calmly, as if the two of them had met on a stair or in the yard, and were exchanging polite greetings. are you well? better than i was. do you lack for anything? my king. my son. i lack for them. he pushed the bowl aside and stood. have you come to burn me? her strange red eyes studied him through the bars. this is a bad place, is it not? a dark place, and foul. the good sun does not shine here, nor the bright moon. she lifted a hand toward the torch in the wall sconce. this is all that stands between you and the darkness, onion knight. this little fire, this gift of r'hllor. shall i put it out? no. he moved toward the bars. please. he did not think he could bear that, to be left alone in utter blackness with no one but the rats for company. the red woman's lips curved upward in a smile. so you have come to love the fire, it would seem. i need the torch. his hands opened and closed. i will not beg her. i will not. i am like this torch, ser davos. we are both instruments of r'hllor. we were made for a single purpose - to keep the darkness at bay. do you believe that? no. perhaps he should have lied, and told her what she wanted to hear, but davos was too accustomed to speaking truth. you are the mother of darkness. i saw that under storm's end, when you gave birth before my eyes. is the brave ser onions so frightened of a passing shadow? take heart, then. shadows only live when given birth by light, and the king's fires burn so low i dare not draw off any more to make another son. it might well kill him. melisandre moved closer. with another man, though... a man whose flames still burn hot and high... if you truly wish to serve your king's cause, come to my chamber one night. i could give you pleasure such as you have never known, and with your life-fire i could make... ... a horror. davos retreated from her. i want no part of you, my lady. or your god. may the seven protect me. melisandre sighed. they did not protect guncer sunglass. he prayed thrice each day, and bore seven seven-pointed stars upon his shield, but when r'hllor reached out his hand his prayers turned to screams, and he burned. why cling to these false gods? i have worshiped them all my life. all your life, davos seaworth? as well say it was so yesterday. she shook her head sadly. you have never feared to speak the truth to kings, why do you lie to yourself? open your eyes, ser knight. what is it you would have me see? the way the world is made. the truth is all around you, plain to behold. the night is dark and full of terrors, the day bright and beautiful and full of hope. one is black, the other white. there is ice and there is fire. hate and love. bitter and sweet. male and female. pain and pleasure. winter and summer. evil and good. she took a step toward him. death and life. everywhere, opposites. everywhere, the war. the war? asked davos. the war, she affirmed. there are two, onion knight. not seven, not one, not a hundred or a thousand. two! do you think i crossed half the world to put yet another vain king on yet another empty throne? the war has been waged since time began, and before it is done, all men must choose where they will stand. on one side is r'hllor, the lord of light, the heart of fire, the god of flame and shadow. against him stands the great other whose name may not be spoken, the lord of darkness, the soul of ice, the god of night and terror. ours is not a choice between baratheon and lannister, between greyjoy and stark. it is death we choose, or life. darkness, or light. she clasped the bars of his cell with her slender white hands. the great ruby at her throat seemed to pulse with its own radiance. so tell me, ser davos seaworth, and tell me truly - does your heart burn with the shining light of r'hllor? or is it black and cold and full of worms? she reached through the bars and laid three fingers upon his breast, as if to feel the truth of him through flesh and wool and leather. my heart, davos said slowly, is full of doubts. melisandre sighed. ahhhh, davos. the good knight is honest to the last, even in his day of darkness. it is well you did not lie to me. i would have known. the other's servants oft hide black hearts in gaudy light, so r'hllor gives his priests the power to see through falsehoods. she stepped lightly away from the cell. why did you mean to kill me? i will tell you, said davos, if you will tell me who betrayed me. it could only have been salladhor saan, and yet even now he prayed it was not so. the red woman laughed. no one betrayed you, onion knight. i saw your purpose in my flames. the flames. if you can see the future in these flames, how is it that we burned upon the blackwater? you gave my sons to the fire... my sons, my ship, my men, all burning... melisandre shook her head. you wrong me, onion knight. those were no fires of mine. had i been with you, your battle would have had a different ending. but his grace was surrounded by unbelievers, and his pride proved stronger than his faith. his punishment was grievous, but he has learned from his mistake. were my sons no more than a lesson for a king, then? davos felt his mouth tighten. it is night in your seven kingdoms now, the red woman went on, but soon the sun will rise again. the war continues, davos seaworth, and some will soon learn that even an ember in the ashes can still ignite a great blaze. the old maester looked at stannis and saw only a man. you see a king. you are both wrong. he is the lord's chosen, the warrior of fire. i have seen him leading the fight against the dark, i have seen it in the flames. the flames do not lie, else you would not be here. it is written in prophecy as well. when the red star bleeds and the darkness gathers, azor ahai shall be born again amidst smoke and salt to wake dragons out of stone. the bleeding star has come and gone, and dragonstone is the place of smoke and salt. stannis baratheon is azor ahai reborn! her red eyes blazed like twin fires, and seemed to stare deep into his soul. you do not believe me. you doubt the truth of r'hllor even now... yet have served him all the same, and will serve him again. i shall leave you here to think on all that i have told you. and because r'hllor is the source of all good, i shall leave the torch as well. with a smile and swirl of scarlet skirts, she was gone. only her scent lingered after. that, and the torch. davos lowered himself to the floor of the cell and wrapped his arms about his knees. the shifting torchlight washed over him. once melisandre 's footsteps faded away, the only sound was the scrabbling of rats. ice and fire, he thought. black and white. dark and light. davos could not deny the power of her god. he had seen the shadow crawling from melisandre's womb, and the priestess knew things she had no way of knowing. she saw my purpose in her flames. it was good to learn that salla had not sold him, but the thought of the red woman spying out his secrets with her fires disquieted him more than he could say. and what did she mean when she said that i had served her god and would serve him again? he did not like that either. he lifted his eyes to stare up at the torch. he looked for a long time, never blinking, watching the flames shift and shimmer. he tried to see beyond them, to peer through the fiery curtain and glimpse whatever lived back there... but there was nothing, only fire, and after a time his eyes began to water. god-blind and tired, davos curled up on the straw and gave himself to sleep. three days later - well, porridge had come thrice, and lamprey twice - davos heard voices outside his cell. he sat up at once, his back to the stone wall, listening to the sounds of struggle. this was new, a change in his unchanging world. the noise was coming from the left, where the steps led up to daylight. he could hear a man's voice, pleading and shouting. ...madness! the man was saying as he came into view, dragged along between two guardsmen with fiery hearts on their breasts. porridge went before them, jangling a ring of keys, and ser axell florent walked behind. axell, the prisoner said desperately, for the love you bear me, unhand me! you cannot do this, i'm no traitor. he was an older man, tall and slender, with silvery grey hair, a pointed beard, and a long elegant face twisted in fear. where is selyse, where is the queen? i demand to see her. the others take you all! release me! the guards paid no mind to his outcries. here? porridge asked in front of the cell. davos got to his feet. for an instant he considered trying to rush them when the door was opened, but that was madness. there were too many, the guards wore swords, and porridge was strong as a bull. ser axell gave the gaoler a curt nod. let the traitors enjoy each other's company. i am no traitor! screeched the prisoner as porridge was unlocking the door. though he was plainly dressed, in grey wool doublet and black breeches, his speech marked him as highborn. his birth will not serve him here, thought davos. porridge swung the bars wide, ser axell gave a nod, and the guards flung their charge in headlong. the man stumbled and might have fallen, but davos caught him. at once he wrenched away and staggered back toward the door, only to have it slammed in his pale, pampered face. no, he shouted. nooooo. all the strength suddenly left his legs, and he slid slowly to the floor, clutching at the iron bars. ser axell, porridge, and the guards had already turned to leave. you cannot do this, the prisoner shouted at their retreating backs. i am the king's hand! it was then that davos knew him. you are alester florent. the man turned his head. who... ? ser davos seaworth. lord alester blinked. seaworth... the onion knight. you tried to murder melisandre. davos did not deny it. at storm's end you wore red-gold armor, with inlaid lapis flowers on your breastplate. he reached down a hand to help the other man to his feet. lord alester brushed the filthy straw from his clothing. i... i must apologize for my appearance, ser. my chests were lost when the lannisters overran our camp. i escaped with no more than the mail on my back and the rings on my fingers. he still wears those rings, noted davos, who had lacked even all of his fingers. no doubt some cook's boy or groom is prancing around king's landing just now in my slashed velvet doublet and jeweled cloak, lord alester went on, oblivious. but war has its horrors, as all men know. no doubt you suffered your own losses. my ship, said davos. all my men. four of my sons. may the... may the lord of light lead them through the darkness to a better world, the other man said. may the father judge them justly, and the mother grant them mercy, davos thought, but he kept his prayer to himself. the seven had no place on dragonstone now. my own son is safe at brightwater, the lord went on, but i lost a nephew on the fury. ser imry, my brother ryam's son. it had been ser imry florent who led them blindly up the blackwater rush with all oars pulling, paying no heed to the small stone towers at the mouth of the river. davos was not like to forget him. my son marie was your nephew's oarmaster. he remembered his last sight of fury, engulfed in wildfire. has there been any word of survivors? the fury burned and sank with all hands, his lordship said. your son and my nephew were lost, with countless other good men. the war itself was lost that day, ser. this man is defeated. davos remembered melisandre's talk of embers in the ashes igniting great blazes. small wonder he ended here. his grace will never yield, my lord. folly, that's folly. lord alester sat on the floor again, as if the effort of standing for a moment had been too much for him. stannis baratheon will never sit the iron throne. is it treason to say the truth? a bitter truth, but no less true for that. his fleet is gone, save for the lyseni, and salladhor saan will flee at the first sight of a lannister sail. most of the lords who supported stannis have gone over to joffrey or died... even the lords of the narrow sea? the lords sworn to dragonstone? lord alester waved his hand feebly. lord celtigar was captured and bent the knee. monford velaryon died with his ship, the red woman burned sunglass, and lord bar emmon is fifteen, fat, and feeble. those are your lords of the narrow sea. only the strength of house florent is left to stannis, against all the might of highgarden, sunspear, and casterly rock, and now most of the storm lords as well. the best hope that remains is to try and salvage something with a peace. that is all i meant to do. gods be good, how can they call it treason? davos stood frowning. my lord, what did you do? not treason. never treason. i love his grace as much as any man. my own niece is his queen, and i remained loyal to him when wiser men fled. i am his hand, the hand of the king, how can i be a traitor? i only meant to save our lives, and... honor... yes. he licked his lips. i penned a letter. salladhor saan swore that he had a man who could get it to king's landing, to lord tywin. his lordship is a... a man of reason, and my terms... the terms were fair... more than fair. what terms were these, my lord? it is filthy here, lord alester said suddenly. and that odor... what is that odor? the pail, said davos, gesturing. we have no privy here. what terms? his lordship stared at the pail in horror. that lord stannis give up his claim to the iron throne and retract all he said of joffrey's bastardy, on the condition that he be accepted back into the king's peace and confirmed as lord of dragonstone and storm's end. i vowed to do the same, for the return of brightwater keep and all our lands. i thought... lord tywin would see the sense in my proposal. he still has the starks to deal with, and the ironmen as well. i offered to seal the bargain by wedding shireen to joffrey's brother tommen. he shook his head. the terms... they are as good as we are ever like to get. even you can see that, surely? yes, said davos, even me. unless stannis should father a son, such a marriage would mean that dragonstone and storm's end would one day pass to tommen, which would doubtless please lord tywin. meanwhile, the lannisters would have shireen as hostage to make certain stannis raised no new rebellions. and what did his grace say when you proposed these terms to him? he is always with the red woman, and... he is not in his right mind, i fear. this talk of a stone dragon... madness, i tell you, sheer madness. did we learn nothing from aerion brightfire, from the nine mages, from the alchemists? did we learn nothing from summerhall? no good has ever come from these dreams of dragons, i told axe 11 as much. my way was better. surer. and stannis gave me his seal, he gave me leave to rule. the hand speaks with the king's voice. not in this. davos was no courtier, and he did not even try to blunt his words. it is not in stannis to yield, so long as he knows his claim is just. no more than he can unsay his words against joffrey, when he believes them true. as for the marriage, tommen was born of the same incest as joffrey, and his grace would sooner see shireen dead than wed to such. a vein throbbed in florent's forehead. he has no choice. you are wrong, my lord. he can choose to die a king. and us with him? is that what you desire, onion knight? no. but i am the king's man, and i will make no peace without his leave. lord alester stared at him helplessly for a long moment, and then began to weep. lord alester looked up sharply. voices, he said. do you hear, davos? someone is coming for us. lamprey, said davos. it's time for our supper, or near enough. last night lamprey had brought them half a beef-and-bacon pie, and a flagon of mead as well. just the thought of it made his belly start to rumble. no, there's more than one. he's right. davos heard two voices at least, and footsteps, growing louder. he got to his feet and moved to the bars. lord alester brushed the straw from his clothes. the king has sent for me. or the queen, yes, selyse would never let me rot here, her own blood. outside the cell, lamprey appeared with a ring of keys in hand. ser axell florent and four guardsmen followed close behind him. they waited beneath the torch while lamprey searched for the correct key. axell, lord alester said. gods be good. is it the king who sends for me, or the queen? no one has sent for you, traitor, ser axell said. lord alester recoiled as if he'd been slapped. no, i swear to you, i committed no treason. why won't you listen? if his grace would only let me explain - lamprey thrust a great iron key into the lock, turned it, and pulled open the cell. the rusted hinges screamed in protest. you, he said to davos. come. where? davos looked to ser axell. tell me true, ser, do you mean to burn me? you are sent for. can you walk? i can walk. davos stepped from the cell. lord alester gave a cry of dismay as lamprey slammed the door shut once more. take the torch, ser axell commanded the gaoler. leave the traitor to the darkness. no, his brother said. axell, please, don't take the light gods have mercy... gods? there is only r'hllor, and the other. ser axell gestured sharply, and one of his guardsmen pulled the torch from its sconce and led the way to the stair. are you taking me to melisandre? davos asked. she will be there, ser axell said. she is never far from the king. but it is his grace himself who asked for you. davos lifted his hand to his chest, where once his luck had hung in a leather bag on a thong. gone now, he remembered, and the ends of four fingers as well. but his hands were still long enough to wrap about a woman's throat, he thought, especially a slender throat like hers. up they went, climbing the turnpike stair in single file. the walls were rough dark stone, cool to the touch. the light of the torches went before them, and their shadows marched beside them on the walls. at the third turn they passed an iron gate that opened on blackness, and another at the fifth turn. davos guessed that they were near the surface by then, perhaps even above it. the next door they came to was made of wood, but still they climbed. now the walls were broken by arrow slits, but no shafts of sunlight pried their way through the thickness of the stone. it was night outside. his legs were aching by the time ser axell thrust open a heavy door and gestured him through. beyond, a high stone bridge arched over emptiness to the massive central tower called the stone drum. a sea wind blew restlessly through the arches that supported the roof, and davos could smell the salt water as they crossed. he took a deep breath, filling his lungs with the clean cold air. wind and water, give me strength, he prayed. a huge nightfire burned in the yard below, to keep the terrors of the dark at bay, and the queen's men were gathered around it, singing praises to their new red god. they were in the center of the bridge when ser axell stopped suddenly. he made a brusque gesture with his hand, and his men moved out of earshot. were it my choice, i would burn you with my brother alester, he told davos. you are both traitors. say what you will. i would never betray king stannis. you would. you will. i see it in your face. and i have seen it in the flames as well. r'hllor has blessed me with that gift. like lady melisandre, he shows me the future in the fire. stannis baratheon will sit the iron throne. i have seen it. and i know what must be done. his grace must make me his hand, in place of my traitor brother. and you will tell him so. will i? davos said nothing. the queen has urged my appointment, ser axell went on. even your old friend from lys, the pirate saan, he says the same. we have made a plan together, him and me. yet his grace does not act. the defeat gnaws inside him, a black worm in his soul. it is up to us who love him to show him what to do. if you are as devoted to his cause as you claim, smuggler, you will join your voice to ours. tell him that i am the only hand he needs. tell him, and when we sail i shall see that you have a new ship. a ship. davos studied the other man's face. ser axell had big florent ears, much like the queen's. coarse hair grew from them, as from his nostrils; more sprouted in tufts and patches beneath his double chin. his nose was broad, his brow beetled, his eyes close-set and hostile. he would sooner give me a pyre than a ship, he said as much, but if i do him this favor... if you think to betray me, ser axell said, pray remember that i have been castellan of dragonstone a good long time. the garrison is mine. perhaps i cannot burn you without the king's consent, but who is to say you might not suffer a fall. he laid a meaty hand on the back of davos's neck and shoved him bodily against the waist-high side of the bridge, then shoved a little harder to force his face out over the yard. do you hear me? i hear, said davos. and you dare name me traitor? ser axell released him. good. he smiled. his grace awaits. best we do not keep him. at the very top of stone drum, within the great round room called the chamber of the painted table, they found stannis baratheon standing behind the artifact that gave the hall its name, a massive slab of wood carved and painted in the shape of westeros as it had been in the time of aegon the conqueror. an iron brazier stood beside the king, its coals glowing a ruddy orange. four tall pointed windows looked out to north, south, east, and west. beyond was the night and the starry sky. davos could hear the wind moving, and fainter, the sounds of the sea. your grace, ser axell said, as it please you, i have brought the onion knight. so i see. stannis wore a grey wool tunic, a dark red mantle, and a plain black leather belt from which his sword and dagger hung. a red-gold crown with flame-shaped points encircled his brows. the look of him was a shock. he seemed ten years older than the man that davos had left at storm's end when he set sail for the blackwater and the battle that would be their undoing. the king's close-cropped beard was spiderwebbed with grey hairs, and he had dropped two stone or more of weight. he had never been a fleshy man, but now the bones moved beneath his skin like spears, fighting to cut free. even his crown seemed too large for his head. his eyes were blue pits lost in deep hollows, and the shape of a skull could be seen beneath his face. yet when he saw davos, a faint smile brushed his lips. so the sea has returned me my knight of the fish and onions. it did, your grace. does he know that he had me in his dungeon? davos went to one knee. rise, ser davos, stannis commanded. i have missed you, ser. i have need of good counsel, and you never gave me less. so tell me true - what is the penalty for treason? the word hung in the air. a frightful word, thought davos. was he being asked to condemn his cellmate? or himself, perchance? kings know the penalty for treason better than any man. treason? he finally managed, weakly. what else would you call it, to deny your king and seek to steal his rightful throne. i ask you again - what is the penalty for treason under the law? davos had no choice but to answer. death, he said. the penalty is death, your grace. it has always been so. i am not... i am not a cruel man, ser davos. you know me. have known me long. this is not my decree. it has always been so, since aegon's day and before. daemon blackfyre, the brothers toyne, the vulture king, grand maester hareth... traitors have always paid with their lives... even rhaenyra targaryen. she was daughter to one king and mother to two more, yet she died a traitor's death for trying to usurp her brother's crown. it is law. law, davos. not cruelty. yes, your grace. he does not speak of me. davos felt a moment's pity for his cellmate down in the dark. he knew he should keep silent, but he was tired and sick of heart, and he heard himself say, sire, lord florent meant no treason. do smugglers have another name for it? i made him hand, and he would have sold my rights for a bowl of pease porridge. he would even have given them shireen. mine only child, he would have wed to a bastard born of incest. the king's voice was thick with anger. my brother had a gift for inspiring loyalty. even in his foes. at summerhall he won three battles in a single day, and brought lords grandison and cafferen back to storm's end as prisoners. he hung their banners in the hall as trophies. cafferen's white fawns were spotted with blood and grandison's sleeping lion was torn near in two. yet they would sit beneath those banners of a night, drinking and feasting with robert. he even took them hunting. 'these men meant to deliver you to aerys to be burned' i told him after i saw them throwing axes in the yard. 'you should not be putting axes in their hands.' robert only laughed. i would have thrown grandison and cafferen into a dungeon, but he turned them into friends. lord cafferen died at ashford castle, cut down by randyll tarly whilst fighting for robert. lord grandison was wounded on the trident and died of it a year after. my brother made them love him, but it would seem that i inspire only betrayal. even in mine own blood and kin. brother, grandfather, cousins, good uncle... your grace, said ser axell, i beg you, give me the chance to prove to you that not all florents are so feeble. ser axell would have me resume the war, king stannis told davos. the lannisters think i am done and beaten, and my sworn lords have forsaken me, near every one. even lord estermont, my own mother's father, has bent his knee to joffrey. the few loyal men who remain to me are losing heart. they waste their days drinking and gambling, and lick their wounds like beaten curs. battle will set their hearts ablaze once more, your grace, ser axell said. defeat is a disease, and victory is the cure. victory. the king's mouth twisted. there are victories and victories, ser. but tell your plan to ser davos. i would hear his views on what you propose. ser axell turned to davos, with a look on his face much like the look that proud lord belgrave must have worn, the day king baelor the blessed had commanded him to wash the beggar's ulcerous feet. nonetheless, he obeyed. the plan ser axell had devised with salladhor saan was simple. a few hours' sail from dragonstone lay claw isle, ancient sea-girt seat of house celtigar. lord ardrian celtigar had fought beneath the fiery heart on the blackwater, but once taken, he had wasted no time in going over to joffrey. he remained in king's landing even now. too frightened of his grace's wrath to come near dragonstone, no doubt, ser axell declared. and wisely so. the man has betrayed his rightful king. ser axell proposed to use salladhor saan's fleet and the men who had escaped the blackwater - stannis still had some fifteen hundred on dragonstone, more than half of them florents - to exact retribution for lord celtigar's defection. claw isle was but lightly garrisoned, its castle reputedly stuffed with myrish carpets, volantene glass, gold and silver plate, jeweled cups, magnificent hawks, an axe of valyrian steel, a horn that could summon monsters from the deep, chests of rubies, and more wines than a man could drink in a hundred years. though celtigar had shown the world a niggardly face, he had never stinted on his own comforts. put his castle to the torch and his people to the sword, i say, ser axell concluded. leave claw isle a desolation of ash and bone, fit only for carrion crows, so the realm might see the fate of those who bed with lannisters. stannis listened to ser axell' s recitation in silence, grinding his jaw slowly from side to side. when it was done, he said, it could be done, i believe. the risk is small. joffrey has no strength at sea until lord redwyne sets sail from the arbor. the plunder might serve to keep that lysene pirate salladhor saan loyal for a time. by itself claw isle is worthless, but its fall would serve notice to lord tywin that my cause is not yet done. the king turned back to davos. speak truly, ser. what do you make of ser axell's proposal? speak truly, ser. davos remembered the dark cell he had shared with lord alester, remembered lamprey and porridge. he thought of the promises that ser axell had made on the bridge above the yard. a ship or a shove, what shall it be? but this was stannis asking. your grace, he said slowly, i make it folly... aye, and cowardice. cowardice? ser axell all but shouted. no man calls me craven before my king! silence, stannis commanded. ser davos, speak on, i would hear your reasons. davos turned to face ser axell. you say we ought show the realm we are not done. strike a blow. make war, aye... but on what enemy? you will find no lannisters on claw isle. we will find traitors, said ser axell, though it may be i could find some closer to home. even in this very room. davos ignored the jibe. i don't doubt lord celtigar bent the knee to the boy joffrey. he is an old done man, who wants no more than to end his days in his castle, drinking his fine wine out of his jeweled cups. he turned back to stannis. yet he came when you called, sire. came, with his ships and swords. he stood by you at storm's end when lord renly came down on us, and his ships sailed up the blackwater. his men fought for you, killed for you, burned for you. claw isle is weakly held, yes. held by women and children and old men. and why is that? because their husbands and sons and fathers died on the blackwater, that's why. died at their oars, or with swords in their hands, fighting beneath our banners. yet ser axell proposes we swoop down on the homes they left behind, to rape their widows and put their children to the sword. these smallfolk are no traitors... they are, insisted ser axell. not all of celtigar's men were slain on the blackwater. hundreds were taken with their lord, and bent the knee when he did. when he did, davos repeated. they were his men. his sworn men. what choice were they given? every man has choices. they might have refused to kneel. some did, and died for it. yet they died true men, and loyal. some men are stronger than others. it was a feeble answer, and davos knew it. stannis baratheon was a man of iron will who neither understood nor forgave weakness in others. i am losing, he thought, despairing. it is every man's duty to remain loyal to his rightful king, even if the lord he serves proves false, stannis declared in a tone that brooked no argument. a desperate folly took hold of davos, a recklessness akin to madness. as you remained loyal to king aerys when your brother raised his banners? he blurted. shocked silence followed, until ser axell cried, treason! and snatched his dagger from its sheath. your grace, he speaks his infamy to your face! davos could hear stannis grinding his teeth. a vein bulged, blue and swollen, in the king's brow. their eyes met. put up your knife, ser axell. and leave us. as it please your grace - it would please me for you to leave, said stannis. take yourself from my presence, and send me melisandre. as you command. ser axell slid the knife away, bowed, and hurried toward the door. his boots rang against the floor, angry. you have always presumed on my forbearance, stannis warned davos when they were alone. i can shorten your tongue as easy as i did your fingers, smuggler. i am your man, your grace. so it is your tongue, to do with as you please. it is, he said, calmer. and i would have it speak the truth. though the truth is a bitter draught at times. aerys, if you only knew... that was a hard choosing. my blood or my liege. my brother or my king. he grimaced. have you ever seen the iron throne? the barbs along the back, the ribbons of twisted steel, the jagged ends of swords and knives all tangled up and melted? it is not a comfortable seat, ser. aerys cut himself so often men took to calling him king scab, and maegor the cruel was murdered in that chair. by that chair, to hear some tell it. it is not a seat where a man can rest at ease. ofttimes i wonder why my brothers wanted it so desperately. why would you want it, then? davos asked him. it is not a question of wanting. the throne is mine, as robert's heir. that is law. after me, it must pass to my daughter, unless selyse should finally give me a son. he ran three fingers lightly down the table, over the layers of smooth hard varnish, dark with age. i am king. wants do not enter into it. i have a duty to my daughter. to the realm. even to robert. he loved me but little, i know, yet he was my brother. the lannister woman gave him horns and made a motley fool of him. she may have murdered him as well, as she murdered jon arryn and ned stark. for such crimes there must be justice. starting with cersei and her abominations. but only starting. i mean to scour that court clean. as robert should have done, after the trident. ser barristan once told me that the rot in king aerys's reign began with varys. the eunuch should never have been pardoned. no more than the kingslayer. at the least, robert should have stripped the white cloak from jaime and sent him to the wall, as lord stark urged. he listened to jon arryn instead. i was still at storm's end, under siege and unconsulted. he turned abruptly, to give davos a hard shrewd look. the truth, now. why did you wish to murder lady melisandre? so he does know davos could not lie to him. four of my sons burned on the blackwater. she gave them to the flames. you wrong her. those fires were no work of hers. curse the imp, curse the pyromancers, curse that fool of flo rent who sailed my fleet into the jaws of a trap. or curse me for my stubborn pride, for sending her away when i needed her most. but not melisandre. she remains my faithful servant. maester cressen was your faithful servant. she slew him, as she killed ser cortnay penrose and your brother renly. now you sound a fool, the king complained. she saw renly' s end in the flames, yes, but she had no more part in it than i did. the priestess was with me. your devan would tell you so. ask him, if you doubt me. she would have spared renly if she could. it was melisandre who urged me to meet with him, and give him one last chance to amend his treason. and it was melisandre who told me to send for you when ser axell wished to give you to r'hllor. he smiled thinly. does that surprise you? yes. she knows i am no friend to her or her red god. but you are a friend to me. she knows that as well. he beckoned davos closer. the boy is sick. maester pylos has been leeching him. the boy? his thoughts went to his devan, the king's squire. my son, sire? devan? a good boy. he has much of you in him. it is robert's bastard who is sick, the boy we took at storm's end. edric storm. i spoke with him in aegon's garden. as she wished. as she saw. stannis sighed. did the boy charm you? he has that gift. he got it from his father, with the blood. he knows he is a king's son, but chooses to forget that he is bastard-born. and he worships robert, as renly did when he was young. my royal brother played the fond father on his visits to storm's end, and there were gifts... swords and ponies and fur-trimmed cloaks. the eunuch's work, every one. the boy would write the red keep full of thanks, and robert would laugh and ask varys what he'd sent this year. renly was no better. he left the boy's upbringing to castellans and maesters, and every one fell victim to his charm. penrose chose to die rather than give him up. the king ground his teeth together. it still angers me. how could he think i would hurt the boy? i chose robert, did i not? when that hard day came. i chose blood over honor. he does not use the boy's name. that made davos very uneasy. hope young edric will recover soon. stannis waved a hand, dismissing his concern. it is a chill, no more. he coughs, he shivers, he has a fever. maester pylos will soon set him right. by himself the boy is nought, you understand, but in his veins flows my brother's blood. there is power in a king's blood, she says. davos did not have to ask who she was. stannis touched the painted table. look at it, onion knight. my realm, by rights. my westeros. he swept a hand across it. this talk of seven kingdoms is a folly. aegon saw that three hundred years ago when he stood where we are standing. they painted this table at his command. rivers and bays they painted, hills and mountains, castles and cities and market towns, lakes and swamps and forests... but no borders. it is all one. one realm, for one king to rule alone. one king agreed davos. one king means peace. i shall bring justice to westeros. a thing ser axell understands as little as he does war. claw isle would gain me naught... and it was evil, just as you said. celtigar must pay the traitor's price himself, in his own person. and when i come into my kingdom, he shall. every man shall reap what he has sown, from the highest lord to the lowest gutter rat. and some will lose more than the tips off their fingers, i promise you. they have made my kingdom bleed, and i do not forget that. king stannis turned from the table. on your knees, onion knight. your grace? for your onions and fish, i made you a knight once. for this, i am of a mind to raise you to lord. this? davos was lost. i am content to be your knight, your grace. i would not know how to begin being lordly. good. to be lordly is to be false. i have learned that lesson hard. now, kneel. your king commands. davos knelt, and stannis drew his longsword. lightbringer, melisandre had named it; the red sword of heroes, drawn from the fires where the seven gods were consumed. the room seemed to grow brighter as the blade slid from its scabbard. the steel had a glow to it; now orange, now yellow, now red. the air shimmered around it, and no jewel had ever sparkled so brilliantly. but when stannis touched it to davos's shoulder, it felt no different than any other longsword. ser davos of house seaworth, the king said, are you my true and honest liege man, now and forever? i am, your grace. and do you swear to serve me loyally all your days, to give me honest counsel and swift obedience, to defend my rights and my realm against all foes in battles great and small, to protect my people and punish my enemies? i do, your grace. then rise again, davos seaworth, and rise as lord of the rainwood, admiral of the narrow sea, and hand of the king. for a moment davos was too stunned to move. i woke this morning in his dungeon. your grace, you cannot... i am no fit man to be a king's hand. there is no man fitter. stannis sheathed lightbringer, gave davos his hand, and pulled him to his feet. i am lowborn, davos reminded him. an upjumped smuggler. your lords will never obey me. then we will make new lords. but... i cannot read... nor write... maester pylos can read for you. as to writing, my last hand wrote the head off his shoulders. all i ask of you are the things you've always given me. honesty. loyalty. service. surely there is someone better... some great lord. . stannis snorted. bar emmon, that boy? my faithless grandfather? celtigar has abandoned me, the new velaryon is six years old, and the new sunglass sailed for volantis after i burned his brother. he made an angry gesture. a few good men remain, it's true. ser gilbert farring holds storm's end for me still, with two hundred loyal men. lord morrigen, the bastard of nightsong, young chyttering, my cousin andrew... but i trust none of them as i trust you, my lord of rainwood. you will be my hand. it is you i want beside me for the battle. another battle will be the end of all of us, thought davos. lord alester saw that much true enough. your grace asked for honest counsel. in honesty then... we lack the strength for another battle against the lannisters. it is the great battle his grace is speaking of, said a woman's voice, rich with the accents of the east. melisandre stood at the door in her red silks and shimmering satins, holding a covered silver dish in her hands. these little wars are no more than a scuffle of children before what is to come. the one whose name may not be spoken is marshaling his power, davos seaworth, a power fell and evil and strong beyond measure. soon comes the cold, and the night that never ends. she placed the silver dish on the painted table. unless true men find the courage to fight it. men whose hearts are fire. stannis stared at the silver dish. she has shown it to me, lord davos. in the flames. you saw it, sire? it was not like stannis baratheon to lie about such a thing. with mine own eyes. after the battle, when i was lost to despair, the lady melisandre bid me gaze into the hearthfire. the chimney was drawing strongly, and bits of ash were rising from the fire. i stared at them, feeling half a fool, but she bid me look deeper, and... the ashes were white, rising in the updraft, yet all at once it seemed as if they were falling. snow, i thought. then the sparks in the air seemed to circle, to become a ring of torches, and i was looking through the fire down on some high hill in a forest. the cinders had become men in black behind the torches, and there were shapes moving through the snow. for all the heat of the fire, i felt a cold so terrible i shivered, and when i did the sight was gone, the fire but a fire once again. but what i saw was real, i'd stake my kingdom on it. and have, said melisandre. the conviction in the king's voice frightened davos to the core. a hill in a forest... shapes in the snow... i don't... it means that the battle is begun, said melisandre. the sand is running through the glass more quickly now, and man's hour on earth is almost done. we must act boldly, or all hope is lost. westeros must unite beneath her one true king, the prince that was promised, lord of dragonstone and chosen of r'hllor. r'hllor chooses queerly, then. the king grimaced, as if he'd tasted something foul. why me, and not my brothers? renly and his peach, in my dreams i see the juice running from his mouth, the blood from his throat. if he had done his duty by his brother, we would have smashed lord tywin. a victory even robert could be proud of. robert... his teeth ground side to side. he is in my dreams as well. laughing. drinking. boasting. those were the things he was best at. those, and fighting. i never bested him at anything. the lord of light should have made robert his champion. why me? because you are a righteous man, said melisandre. a righteous man. stannis touched the covered silver platter with a finger. with leeches. yes, said melisandre, but i must tell you once more, this is not the way. you swore it would work. the king looked angry. it will... and it will not. which? both. speak sense to me, woman. when the fires speak more plainly, so shall i. there is truth in the flames, but it is not always easy to see. the great ruby at her throat drank fire from the glow of the brazier. give me the boy, your grace. it is the surer way. the better way. give me the boy and i shall wake the stone dragon. i have told you, no. he is only one baseborn boy, against all the boys of westeros, and all the girls as well. against all the children that might ever be born, in all the kingdoms of the world. the boy is innocent. the boy defiled your marriage bed, else you would surely have sons of your own. he shamed you. robert did that. not the boy. my daughter has grown fond of him. and he is mine own blood. your brother's blood, melisandre said. a king's blood. only a king's blood can wake the stone dragon. stannis ground his teeth. i'll hear no more of this. the dragons are done. the targaryens tried to bring them back half a dozen times. and made fools of themselves, or corpses. patchface is the only fool we need on this godsforsaken rock. you have the leeches. do your work. melisandre bowed her head stiffly, and said, as my king commands. reaching up her left sleeve with her right hand, she flung a handful of powder into the brazier. the coals roared. as pale flames writhed atop them, the red woman retrieved the silver dish and brought it to the king. davos watched her lift the lid. beneath were three large black leeches, fat with blood. the boy's blood, davos knew. a king's blood. stannis stretched forth a hand, and his fingers closed around one of the leeches. say the name, melisandre commanded. the leech was twisting in the king's grip, trying to attach itself to one of his fingers. the usurper, he said. joffrey baratheon. when he tossed the leech into the fire, it curled up like an autumn leaf amidst the coals, and burned. stannis grasped the second. the usurper, he declared, louder this time. balon greyjoy. he flipped it lightly onto the brazier, and its flesh split and cracked. the blood burst from it, hissing and smoking. the last was in the king's hand. this one he studied a moment as it writhed between his fingers. the usurper, he said at last. robb stark. and he threw it on the flames. for a moment it seemed as though the king had not heard. stannis showed no pleasure at the news, no anger, no disbelief, not even relief. he stared at his painted table with teeth clenched hard. you are certain? he asked. i am not seeing the body, no, your kingliness, said salladhor saan. yet in the city, the lions prance and dance. the red wedding, the smallfolk are calling it. they swear lord frey had the boy's head hacked off, sewed the head of his direwolf in its place, and nailed a crown about his ears. his lady mother was slain as well, and thrown naked in the river. at a wedding, thought davos. as he sat at his slayer's board, a guest beneath his roof. these freys are cursed. he could smell the burning blood again, and hear the leech hissing and spitting on the brazier's hot coals. it was the lord's wrath that slew him, ser axell florent declared. it was the hand of r'hllor! praise the lord of light! sang out queen selyse, a pinched thin hard woman with large ears and a hairy upper lip. is the hand of r'hllor spotted and palsied? asked stannis. this sounds more walder frey's handiwork than any god's. r'hllor chooses such instruments as he requires. the ruby at melisandre's throat shone redly. his ways are mysterious, but no man may withstand his fiery will. no man may withstand him! the queen cried. be quiet, woman. you are not at a nightfire now. stannis considered the painted table. the wolf leaves no heirs, the kraken too many. the lions will devour them unless... saan, i will require your fastest ships to carry envoys to the iron islands and white harbor. i shall offer pardons. the way he snapped his teeth showed how little he liked that word. full pardons, for all those who repent of treason and swear fealty to their rightful king. they must see... they will not. melisandre's voice was soft. i am sorry, your grace. this is not an end. more false kings will soon rise to take up the crowns of those who've died. more? stannis looked as though he would gladly have throttled her. more usurpers? more traitors? i have seen it in the flames. queen selyse went to the king's side. the lord of light sent melisandre to guide you to your glory. heed her, i beg you. r'hllor's holy flames do not lie. there are lies and lies, woman. even when these flames speak truly, they are full of tricks, it seems to me. an ant who hears the words of a king may not comprehend what he is saying, melisandre said, and all men are ants before the fiery face of god. if sometimes i have mistaken a warning for a prophecy or a prophecy for a warning, the fault lies in the reader, not the book. but this i know for a certainty - envoys and pardons will not serve you now, no more than leeches. you must show the realm a sign. a sign that proves your power! power- the king snorted. i have thirteen hundred men on dragonstone, another three hundred at storm's end. his hand swept over the painted table. the rest of westeros is in the hands of my foes. i have no fleet but salladhor saan's. no coin to hire sellswords. no prospect of plunder or glory to lure freeriders to my cause. lord husband, said queen selyse, you have more men than aegon did three hundred years ago. all you lack are dragons. the look stannis gave her was dark. nine mages crossed the sea to hatch aegon the third's cache of eggs. baelor the blessed prayed over his for half a year. aegon the fourth built dragons of wood and iron. aerion brightflame drank wildfire to transform himself. the mages failed, king baelor's prayers went unanswered, the wooden dragons burned, and prince aerion died screaming. queen selyse was adamant. none of these was the chosen of r'hllor. no red comet blazed across the heavens to herald their coming. none wielded lightbringer, the red sword of heroes. and none of them paid the price. lady melisandre will tell you, my lord. only death can pay for life. the boy? the king almost spat the words. the boy, agreed the queen. the boy, ser axell echoed. i was sick unto death of this wretched boy before he was even born, the king complained. his very name is a roaring in my ears and a dark cloud upon my soul. give the boy to me and you need never hear his name spoken again, melisandre promised. no, but you'll hear him screaming when she burns him. davos held his tongue. it was wiser not to speak until the king commanded it. give me the boy for r'hllor, the red woman said, and the ancient prophecy shall be fulfilled. your dragon shall awaken and spread his stony wings. the kingdom shall be yours. ser axell went to one knee. on bended knee i beg you, sire. wake the stone dragon and let the traitors tremble. like aegon you begin as lord of dragonstone. like aegon you shall conquer. let the false and the fickle feel your flames. your own wife begs as well, lord husband. queen selyse went down on both knees before the king, hands clasped as if in prayer. robert and delena defiled our bed and laid a curse upon our union. this boy is the foul fruit of their fornications. lift his shadow from my womb and i will bear you many trueborn sons, i know it. she threw her arms around his legs. he is only one boy, born of your brother's lust and my cousin's shame. he is mine own blood. stop clutching me, woman. king stannis put a hand on her shoulder, awkwardly untangling himself from her grasp. perhaps robert did curse our marriage bed. he swore to me that he never meant to shame me, that he was drunk and never knew which bedchamber he entered that night. but does it matter? the boy was not at fault, whatever the truth. melisandre put her hand on the king's arm. the lord of light cherishes the innocent. there is no sacrifice more precious. from his king's blood and his untainted fire, a dragon shall be born. stannis did not pull away from melisandre's touch as he had from his queen's. the red woman was all selyse was not; young, full-bodied, and strangely beautiful, with her heart-shaped face, coppery hair, and unearthly red eyes. it would be a wondrous thing to see stone come to life, he admitted, grudging. and to mount a dragon... i remember the first time my father took me to court, robert had to hold my hand. i could not have been older than four, which would have made him five or six. we agreed afterward that the king had been as noble as the dragons were fearsome. stannis snorted. years later, our father told us that aerys had cut himself on the throne that morning, so his hand had taken his place. it was tywin lannister who'd so impressed us. his fingers touched the surface of the table, tracing a path lightly across the varnished hills. robert took the skulls down when he donned the crown, but he could not bear to have them destroyed. dragon wings over westeros... there would be such a... your grace! davos edged forward. might i speak? stannis closed his mouth so hard his teeth snapped. my lord of the rainwood. why do you think i made you hand, if not to speak? the king waved a hand. say what you will. warrior, make me brave. i know little of dragons and less of gods... but the queen spoke of curses. no man is as cursed as the kinslayer, in the eyes of gods and men. there are no gods save r'hllor and the other, whose name must not be spoken. melisandre's mouth made a hard red line. and small men curse what they cannot understand. i am a small man, davos admitted, so tell me why you need this boy edric storm to wake your great stone dragon, my lady. he was determined to say the boy's name as often as he could. only death can pay for life, my lord. a great gift requires a great sacrifice. where is the greatness in a baseborn child? he has kings' blood in his veins. you have seen what even a little of that blood could do - i saw you burn some leeches. and two false kings are dead. robb stark was murdered by lord walder of the crossing, and we have heard that balon greyjoy fell from a bridge. who did your leeches kill? do you doubt the power of r'hllor? no. davos remembered too well the living shadow that had squirmed from out her womb that night beneath storm's end, its black hands pressing at her thighs. i must go carefully here, or some shadow may come seeking me as well. even an onion smuggler knows two onions from three. you are short a king, my lady. stannis gave a snort of laughter. he has you there, my lady. two is not three. to be sure, your grace. one king might die by chance, even two... but three? if joffrey should die in the midst of all his power, surrounded by his armies and his kingsguard, would not that show the power of the lord at work? it might. the king spoke as if he grudged each word. or not. davos did his best to hide his fear. joffrey shall die, queen selyse declared, serene in her confidence. it may be that he is dead already, ser axell added. stannis looked at them with annoyance. are you trained crows, to croak at me in turns? enough. husband, hear me - the queen entreated. why? two is not three. kings can count as well as smugglers. you may go. stannis turned his back on them. melisandre helped the queen to her feet. selyse swept stiffly from the chamber, the red woman trailing behind. ser axell lingered long enough to give davos one last look. an ugly look on an ugly face, he thought as he met the stare. after the others had gone, davos cleared his throat. the king looked up. why are you still here? sire, about edric storm... stannis made a sharp gesture. spare me. davos persisted. your daughter takes her lessons with him, and plays with him every day in aegon's garden. i know that. her heart would break if anything ill should - i know that as well. if you would only see him - i have seen him. he looks like robert. aye, and worships him. shall i tell him how often his beloved father ever gave him a thought? my brother liked the making of children well enough, but after birth they were a bother. he asks after you every day, he - you are making me angry, davos. i will hear no more of this bastard boy. his name is edric storm, sire. i know his name. was there ever a name so apt? it proclaims his bastardy, his high birth, and the turmoil he brings with him. edric storm. there, i have said it. are you satisfied, my lord hand? edric - he started.  - is one boy! he may be the best boy who ever drew breath and it would not matter. my duty is to the realm. his hand swept across the painted table. how many boys dwell in westeros? how many girls? how many men, how many women? the darkness will devour them all, she says. the night that never ends. she talks of prophecies... a hero reborn in the sea, living dragons hatched from dead stone... she speaks of signs and swears they point to me. i never asked for this, no more than i asked to be king. yet dare i disregard her? he ground his teeth. we do not choose our destinies. yet we must... we must do our duty, no? great or small, we must do our duty. melisandre swears that she has seen me in her flames, facing the dark with lightbringer raised on high. lightbringer! stannis gave a derisive snort. it glimmers prettily, i'll grant you, but on the blackwater this magic sword served me no better than any common steel. a dragon would have turned that battle. aegon once stood here as i do, looking down on this table. do you think we would name him aegon the conqueror today if he had not had dragons? your grace, said davos, the cost. . i know the cost! last night, gazing into that hearth, i saw things in the flames as well. i saw a king, a crown of fire on his brows, burning... burning, davos. his own crown consumed his flesh and turned him into ash. do you think i need melisandre to tell me what that means? or you? the king moved, so his shadow fell upon king's landing. if joffrey should die... what is the life of one bastard boy against a kingdom? everything, said davos, softly. stannis looked at him, jaw clenched. go, the king said at last, before you talk yourself back into the dungeon. sometimes the storm winds blow so strong a man has no choice but to furl his sails. aye, your grace. davos bowed, but stannis had seemingly forgotten him already. it was chilly in the yard when he left the stone drum. a wind blew briskly from the cast, making the banners snap and flap noisily along the walls. davos could smell salt in the air. the sea. he loved that smell. it made him want to walk a deck again, to raise his canvas and sail off south to marya and his two small ones. he thought of them most every day now, and even more at night. part of him wanted nothing so much as to take devan and go home. i cannot. not yet. i am a lord now, and the king's hand, i must not fail him. he raised his eyes to gaze up at the walls. in place of merlons, a thousand grotesques and gargoyles looked down on him, each different from all the others; wyvems, griffins, demons, manticores, minotaurs, basilisks, hellhounds, cockatrices, and a thousand queerer creatures sprouted from the castle's battlements as if they'd grown there. and the dragons were everywhere. the great hall was a dragon lying on its belly. men entered through its open mouth. the kitchens were a dragon curled up in a ball, with the smoke and steam of the ovens vented through its nostrils. the towers were dragons hunched above the walls or poised for flight; the windwyrrn seemed to scream defiance, while sea dragon tower gazed serenely out across the waves. smaller dragons framed the gates. dragon claws emerged from walls to grasp at torches, great stone wings enfolded the smith and armory, and tails formed arches, bridges, and exterior stairs. davos had often heard it said that the wizards of valyria did not cut and chisel as common masons did, but worked stone with fire and magic as a potter might work clay. but now he wondered. what if they were real dragons, somehow turned to stone? if the red woman brings them to life, the castle will come crashing down, i am thinking. what kind of dragons are full of rooms and stairs and furniture? and windows. and chimneys. and privy shafts. davos turned to find salladhor saan beside him. does this mean you have forgiven my treachery, salla? the old pirate wagged a finger at him. forgiving, yes. forgetting, no. all that good gold on claw isle that might have been mine, it makes me old and tired to think of it. when i die impoverished, my wives and concubines will curse you, onion lord. lord celtigar had many fine wines that now i am not tasting, a sea eagle he had trained to fly from the wrist, and a magic horn to summon krakens from the deep. very useful such a horn would be, to pull down tyroshi and other vexing creatures. but do i have this horn to blow? no, because the king made my old friend his hand. he slipped his arm through davos's and said, the queen's men love you not, old friend. i am hearing that a certain hand has been making friends of his own. this is true, yes? you hear too much, you old pirate. a smuggler had best know men as well as tides, or he would not live to smuggle long. the queen's men might remain fervent followers of the lord of light, but the lesser folk of dragonstone were drifting back to the gods they'd known all their lives. they said stannis was ensorceled, that melisandre had turned him away from the seven to bow before some demon out of shadow, and... worst sin of all... that she and her god had failed him. and there were knights and lordlings who felt the same. davos had sought them out, choosing them with the same care with which he'd once picked his crews. ser gerald gower fought stoutly on the blackwater, but afterward had been heard to say that r'hllor must be a feeble god to let his followers be chased off by a dwarf and a dead man. ser andrew estermont was the king's cousin, and had served as his squire years ago. the bastard of nightsong had commanded the rearguard that allowed stannis to reach the safety of salladhor saan's galleys, but he worshiped the warrior with a faith as fierce as he was. king's men, not queen's men. but it would not do to boast of them. a certain lysene pirate once told me that a good smuggler stays out of sight, davos replied carefully. black sails, muffled oars, and a crew that knows how to hold their tongues. the lyseni laughed. a crew with no tongues is even better. big strong mutes who cannot read or write. but then he grew more somber. but i am glad to know that someone watches your back, old friend. will the king give the boy to the red priestess, do you think? one little dragon could end this great big war. old habit made him reach for his luck, but his fingerbones no longer hung about his neck, and he found nothing. he will not do it, said davos. he could not harm his own blood. lord renly will be glad to hear this. renly was a traitor in arms. edric storm is innocent of any crime. his grace is a just man. salla shrugged. we shall be seeing. or you shall. for myself, i am returning to sea. even now, rascally smugglers may be sailing across the blackwater bay, hoping to avoid paying their lord's lawful duties. he slapped davos on the back. take care. you with your mute friends. you are grown so very great now, yet the higher a man climbs the farther he has to fall. davos reflected on those words as he climbed the steps of sea dragon tower to the maester's chambers below the rookery. he did not need salla to tell him that he had risen too high. i cannot read, i cannot write, the lords despise me, i know nothing of ruling, how can i be the king's hand? i belong on the deck of a ship, not in a castle tower. he had said as much to maester pylos. you are a notable captain, the maester replied. a captain rules his ship, does he not? he must navigate treacherous waters, set his sails to catch the rising wind, know when a storm is coming and how best to weather it. this is much the same. pylos meant it kindly, but his assurances rang hollow. it is not at all the same! davos had protested. a kingdom's not a ship... and a good thing, or this kingdom would be sinking. i know wood and rope and water, yes, but how will that serve me now? where do i find the wind to blow king stannis to his throne? the maester laughed at that. and there you have it, my lord. words are wind, you know, and you've blown mine away with your good sense. his grace knows what he has in you, i think. onions, said davos glumly. that is what he has in me. the king's hand should be a highborn lord, someone wise and learned, a battle commander or a great knight... ser ryam redwyne was the greatest knight of his day, and one of the worst hands ever to serve a king. septon murmison's prayers worked miracles, but as hand he soon had the whole realm praying for his death. lord butterwell was renowned for wit, myles smallwood for courage, ser otto hightower for learning, yet they failed as hands, every one. as for birth, the dragonkings oft chose hands from amongst their own blood, with results as various as baelor breakspear and maegor the cruel. against this, you have septon barth, the blacksmith's son the old king plucked from the red keep's library, who gave the realm forty years of peace and plenty. pylos smiled. read your history, lord davos, and you will see that your doubts are groundless. how can i read history, when i cannot read? any man can read, my lord, said maester pylos. there is no magic needed, nor high birth, i am teaching the art to your son, at the king's command. let me teach you as well. it was a kindly offer, and not one that davos could refuse. and so every day he repaired to the maester's chambers high atop sea dragon tower, to frown over scrolls and parchments and great leather tomes and try to puzzle out a few more words. his efforts often gave him headaches, and made him feel as big a fool as patchface besides. his son devan was not yet twelve, yet he was well ahead of his father, and for princess shireen and edric storm reading seemed as natural as breathing. when it came to books, davos was more a child than any of them. yet he persisted. he was the king's hand now, and a king's hand should read. the narrow twisting steps of sea dragon tower had been a sore trial to maester cressen after he broke his hip. davos still found himself missing the old man. he thought stannis must as well. pylos seemed clever and diligent and well-meaning, but he was so young, and the king did not confide in him as he had in cressen. the old man had been with stannis so long... until he ran afoul of melisandre, and died for it. at the top of the steps davos heard a soft jingle of bells that could only herald patchface. the princess's fool was waiting outside the maester's door for her like a faithful hound. dough-soft and slump-shouldered, his broad face tattooed in a motley pattern of red and green squares, patchface wore a helm made of a rack of deer antlers strapped to a tin bucket. a dozen bells hung from the tines and rang when he moved... which meant constantly, since the fool seldom stood still. he jingled and jangled his way everywhere he went; small wonder that pylos had exiled him from shireen's lessons. under the sea the old fish eat the young fish, the fool muttered at davos. he bobbed his head, and his bells clanged and chimed and sang. i know, i know, oh oh oh. up here the young fish teach the old fish, said davos, who never felt so ancient as when he sat down to try and read, it might have been different if aged maester cressen had been the one teaching him, but pylos was young enough to be his son. he found the maester seated at his long wooden table covered with books and scrolls, across from the three children. princess shireen sat between the two boys. even now davos could take great pleasure in the sight of his own blood keeping company with a princess and a king's bastard. devan will be a lord now, not merely a knight. the lord of the rainwood. davos took more pride in that than in wearing the title himself. he reads too. he reads and he -writes, as if he had been born to it. pylos had naught but praise for his diligence, and the master-at-arms said devan was showing promise with sword and lance as well. and he is a godly lad, too. my brothers have ascended to the hall of light, to sit beside the lord, devan had said when his father told him how his four elder brothers had died. i will pray for them at the nightfires, and for you as well, father, so you might walk in the light of the lord till the end of your days. good morrow to you, father, the boy greeted him. he looks so much like dale did at his age, davos thought. his eldest had never dressed so fine as devan in his squire's raiment, to be sure, but they shared the same square plain face, the same forthright brown eyes, the same thin brown flyaway hair. devan' s cheeks and chin were dusted with blond hair, a fuzz that would have shamed a proper peach, though the boy was fiercely proud of his beard. just as dale was proud of his, once. devan was the oldest of the three children at the table. yet edric storm was three inches taller and broader in the chest and shoulders. he was his father's son in that; nor did he ever miss a morning's work with sword and shield. those old enough to have known robert and renly as children said that the bastard boy had more of their look than stannis had ever shared; the coal-black hair, the deep blue eyes, the mouth, the jaw, the cheekbones. only his ears reminded you that his mother had been a florent. yes, good morrow, my lord, edric echoed. the boy could be fierce and proud, but the maesters and castellans and masters-at-arms who'd raised him had schooled him well in courtesy. do you come from my uncle? how fares his grace? well, davos lied. if truth be told, the king had a haggard, haunted look about him, but he saw no need to burden the boy with his fears. i hope i have not disturbed your lesson. we had just finished, my lord, maester pylos said. we were reading about king daeron the first. princess shireen was a sad, sweet, gentle child, far from pretty. stannis had given her his square jaw and selyse her florent ears, and the gods in their cruel wisdom had seen fit to compound her homeliness by afflicting her with greyscale in the cradle. the disease had left one cheek and half her neck grey and cracked and hard, though it had spared both her life and her sight. he went to war and conquered dome. the young dragon, they called him. he worshiped false gods, said devan, but he was a great king otherwise, and very brave in battle. he was, agreed edric storm, but my father was braver. the young dragon never won three battles in a day. the princess looked at him wide-eyed. did uncle robert win three battles in a day? the bastard nodded. it was when he'd first come home to call his banners. lords grandison, cafferen, and fell planned to join their strength at summerhall and march on storm's end, but he learned their plans from an informer and rode at once with all his knights and squires. as the plotters came up on summerhall one by one, he defeated each of them in turn before they could join up with the others. he slew lord fell in single combat and captured his son silveraxe. devan looked to pylos. is that how it happened? i said so, didn't i? edric storm said before the maester could reply. he smashed all three of them, and fought so bravely that lord grandison and lord cafferen became his men afterward, and silveraxe too. no one ever beat my father. edric, you ought not boast, maester pylos said. king robert suffered defeats like any other man. lord tyrell bested him at ashford, and he lost many a tourney tilt as well. he won more than he lost, though. and he killed prince rhaegar on the trident. that he did, the maester agreed. but now i must give my attention to lord davos, who has waited so patiently. we will read more of king daeron's conquest of dome on the morrow. princess shireen and the boys said their farewells courteously. when they had taken their leaves, maester pylos moved closer to davos. my lord, perhaps you would like to try a bit of conquest of dome as well? he slid the slender leather-bound book across the table. king daeron wrote with an elegant simplicity, and his history is rich with blood, battle, and bravery. your son is quite engrossed. my son is not quite twelve. i am the king's hand. give me another letter, if you would. as you wish, my lord. maester pylos rummaged about his table, unrolling and then discarding various scraps of parchment. there are no new letters. perhaps an old one... davos enjoyed a good story as well as any man, but stannis had not named him hand for his enjoyment, he felt. his first duty was to help his king rule, and for that he must needs understand the words the ravens brought. the best way to learn a thing was to do it, he had found; sails or scrolls, it made no matter. this might serve our purpose. pylos passed him a letter. davos flattened down the little square of crinkled parchment and squinted at the tiny crabbed letters. reading was hard on the eyes, that much he had learned early. sometimes he wondered if the citadel offered a champion's purse to the maester who wrote the smallest hand. pylos had laughed at the notion, but... to the... five kings, read davos, hesitating briefly over five, which he did not often see written out. the king... be... the king... beware? beyond, the maester corrected. davos grimaced. the king beyond the wall comes... comes south. he leads a... a... fast... vast. ... a vast host of wil... wild... wildlings. lord m... mmmor... mormont sent a... raven from the... ha... ha... haunted. the haunted forest. pylos underlined the words with the point of his finger. ... the haunted forest. he is... under a... attack? yes. pleased, he plowed onward. oth... other birds have come since, with no words. we... fear... mormont slain with all... with all his... stench... no, strength. we fear mormont slain with all his strength... davos suddenly realized just what he was reading. he turned the letter over, and saw that the wax that had sealed it had been black. this is from the night's watch. maester, has king stannis seen this letter? i brought it to lord alester when it first arrived. he was the hand then. i believed he discussed it with the queen. when i asked him if he wished to send a reply, he told me not to be a fool. 'his grace lacks the men to fight his own battles, he has none to waste on wildlings' he said to me. that was true enough. and this talk of five kings would certainly have angered stannis. only a starving man begs bread from a beggar, he muttered. pardon, my lord? something my wife said once. davos drummed his shortened fingers against the tabletop. the first time he had seen the wall he had been younger than devan, serving aboard the cobblecat under roro uhoris, a tyroshi known up and down the narrow sea as the blind bastard, though he was neither blind nor baseborn. roro had sailed past skagos into the shivering sea, visiting a hundred little coves that had never seen a trading ship before. he brought steel; swords, axes, helms, good chainmail hauberks, to trade for furs, ivory, amber, and obsidian. when the cobblecat turned back south her holds were stuffed, but in the bay of seals three black galleys came out to herd her into eastwatch. they lost their cargo and the bastard lost his head, for the crime of trading weapons to the wildlings. davos had traded at eastwatch in his smuggling days. the black brothers made hard enemies but good customers, for a ship with the right cargo. but while he might have taken their coin, he had never forgotten how the blind bastard's head had rolled across the cobblecat's deck. i met some wildlings when i was a boy, he told maester pylos. they were fair thieves but bad hagglers. one made off with our cabin girl. all in all, they seemed men like any other men, some fair, some foul. men are men, maester pylos agreed. shall we return to our reading, my lord hand? i am the hand of the king, yes. stannis might be the king of westeros in name, but in truth he was the king of the painted table. he held dragonstone and storm's end, and had an ever- more-uneasy alliance with salladhor saan, but that was all. how could the watch have looked to him for help? they may not know how weak he is, how lost his cause. king stannis never saw this letter, you are quite certain? nor melisandre? no. should i bring it to them? even now? no, davos said at once. you did your duty when you brought it to lord alester. if melisandre knew of this letter... what was it she had said? one whose name may not be spoken is marshaling his power, davos seaworth. soon comes the cold, and the night that never ends... and stannis had seen a vision in the flames, a ring of torches in the snow with terror all around. my lord, are you unwell? asked pylos. i am frightened, maester, he might have said. davos was remembering a tale salladhor saan had told him, of how azor ahai tempered lightbringer by thrusting it through the heart of the wife he loved. he slew his wife to fight the dark. if stannis is azor ahai come again, does that mean edric storm must play the part of nissa nissa? i was thinking, maester. my pardons. what harm if some wildling king conquers the north? it was not as though stannis held the north. his grace could scarcely be expected to defend people who refused to acknowledge him as king. give me another letter, he said abruptly. this one is too... ... difficult? suggested pylos. soon comes the cold, whispered melisandre, and the night that never ends. troubling, said davos. too... troubling. a different letter, please. their voices rose like cinders, swirling up into purple evening sky. lead us from the darkness, o my lord. fill our hearts with fire, so we may walk your shining path. the nightfire burned against the gathering dark, a great bright beast whose shifting orange light threw shadows twenty feet tall across the yard. all along the walls of dragonstone the army of gargoyles and grotesques seemed to stir and shift. davos looked down from an arched window in the gallery above. he watched melisandre lift her arms, as if to embrace the shivering flames. r'hllor, she sang in a voice loud and clear, you are the light in our eyes, the fire in our hearts, the heat in our loins. yours is the sun that warms our days, yours the stars that guard us in the dark of night. lord of light, defend us. the night is dark and full of terrors. queen selyse led the responses, her pinched face full of fervor. king stannis stood beside her, jaw clenched hard, the points of his red-gold crown shimmering whenever he moved his head. he is with them, but not of them, davos thought. princess shireen was between them, the mottled grey patches on her face and neck almost black in the firelight. lord of light, protect us, the queen sang. the king did not respond with the others. he was staring into the flames. davos wondered what he saw there. another vision of the war to come? or something closer to home? r'hllor who gave us breath, we thank you, sang melisandre. r'hllor who gave us day, we thank you. we thank you for the sun that warms us, queen selyse and the other worshipers replied. we thank you for the stars that watch us. we thank you for our hearths and for our torches, that keep the savage dark at bay. there were fewer voices saying the responses than there had been the night before, it seemed to davos; fewer faces flushed with orange light about the fire. but would there be fewer still on the morrow... or more? the voice of ser axe 11 florent rang loud as a trumpet. he stood barrelchested and bandy- legged, the firelight washing his face like a monstrous orange tongue. davos wondered if ser axell would thank him, after. the work they did tonight might well make him the king's hand, as he dreamed. melisandre cried, we thank you for stannis, by your grace our king. we thank you for the pure white fire of his goodness, for the red sword of justice in his hand, for the love he bears his leal people. guide him and defend him, r'hllor, and grant him strength to smite his foes. grant him strength, answered queen selyse, ser axell, devan, and the rest. grant him courage. grant him wisdom. when he was a boy, the septons had taught davos to pray to the crone for wisdom, to the warrior for courage, to the smith for strength. but it was the mother he prayed to now, to keep his sweet son devan safe from the red woman's demon god. lord davos? we'd best be about it. ser andrew touched his elbow gently. my lord? the title still rang queer in his ears, yet davos turned away from the window. aye. it's time. stannis, melisandre, and the queen's men would be at their prayers an hour or more. the red priests lit their fires every day at sunset, to thank r'hllor for the day just ending, and beg him to send his sun back on the morrow to banish the gathering darkness. a smuggler must know the tides and when to seize them. that was all he was at the end of the day; davos the smuggler. his maimed hand rose to his throat for his luck, and found nothing. he snatched it down and walked a bit more quickly. his companions kept pace, matching their strides to his own. the bastard of nightsong had a pox-ravaged face and an air of tattered chivalry; ser gerald gower was broad, bluff, and blond; ser andrew estermont stood a head taller, with a spade-shaped beard and shaggy brown eyebrows. they were all good men in their own ways, davos thought. and they will all be dead men soon, if this night's work goes badly. fire is a living thing, the red woman told him, when he asked her to teach him how to see the future in the flames. it is always moving, always changing... like a book whose letters dance and shift even as you try to read them. it takes years of training to see the shapes beyond the flames, and more years still to learn to tell the shapes of what will be from what may be or what was. even then it comes hard, hard. you do not understand that, you men of the sunset lands. davos asked her then how it was that ser axell had learned the trick of it so quickly, but to that she only smiled enigmatically and said, any cat may stare into a fire and see red mice at play. he had not lied to his king's men, about that or any of it. the red woman may see what we intend, he warned them. we should start by killing her, then, urged lewys the fishwife. i know a place where we could waylay her, four of us with sharp swords... you'd doom us all, said davos. maester cressen tried to kill her, and she knew at once. from her flames, i'd guess. it seems to me that she is very quick to sense any threat to her own person, but surely she cannot see everything. if we ignore her, perhaps we might escape her notice. there is no honor in hiding and sneaking, objected ser triston of tally hill, who had been a sunglass man before lord guncer went to melisandre 's fires. is it so honorable to burn? davos asked him. you saw lord sunglass die. is that what you want? i don't need men of honor now. i need smugglers. are you with me, or no? they were. gods be good, they were. maester pylos was leading edric storm through his sums when davos pushed open the door. ser andrew was close behind him; the others had been left to guard the steps and cellar door. the maester broke off. that will be enough for now, edric. the boy was puzzled by the intrusion. lord davos, ser andrew. we were doing sums. ser andrew smiled. i hated sums when i was your age, coz. i don't mind them so much. i like history best, though it's full of tales. edric, said maester pylos, run and get your cloak now. you're to go with lord davos. i am? edric got to his feet. where are we going? his mouth set stubbornly. i won't go pray to the lord of light. i am a warrior's man, like my father. we know, davos said. come, lad, we must not dawdle. edric donned a thick hooded cloak of undyed wool. maester pylos helped him fasten it, and pulled the hood up to shadow his face. are you coming with us, maester? the boy asked. no. pylos touched the chain of many metals he wore about his neck. my place is here on dragonstone. go with lord davos now, and do as he says. he is the king's hand, remember. what did i tell you about the king's hand? the hand speaks with the king's voice. the young maester smiled. that's so. go now. davos had been uncertain of pylos. perhaps he resented him for taking old cressen's place. but now he could only admire the man's courage. this could mean his life as well. outside the maester's chambers, ser gerald gower waited by the steps. edric storm looked at him curiously. as they made their descent he asked, where are we going, lord davos? to the water. a ship awaits you. the boy stopped suddenly. a ship? one of salladhor saan's. salla is a good friend of mine. i shall go with you, cousin, ser andrew assured him. there's nothing to be frightened of. i am not frightened, edric said indignantly. only... is shireen coming too? no, said davos. the princess must remain here with her father and mother. i have to see her then, edric explained. to say my farewells. otherwise she'll be sad. not so sad as if she sees you burn. there is no time, davos said. i will tell the princess that you were thinking of her. and you can write her, when you get to where you're going. the boy frowned. are you sure i must go? why would my uncle send me from dragonstone? did i displease him? i never meant to. he got that stubborn look again. i want to see my uncle. i want to see king stannis. ser andrew and ser gerald exchanged a look. there's no time for that, cousin, ser andrew said. i want to see him! edric insisted, louder. he does not want to see you. davos had to say something, to get the boy moving. i am his hand, i speak with his voice. must i go to the king and tell him that you would not do as you were told? do you know how angry that will make him? have you ever seen your uncle angry? he pulled off his glove and showed the boy the four fingers that stannis had shortened. i have. it was all lies; there had been no anger in stannis baratheon when he cut the ends off his onion knight's fingers, only an iron sense of justice. but edric storm had not been born then, and could not know that. and the threat had the desired effect. he should not have done that, the boy said, but he let davos take him by the hand and draw him down the steps. the bastard of nightsong joined them at the cellar door. they walked quickly, across a shadowed yard and down some steps, under the stone tail of a frozen dragon. lewys the fishwife and omer blackberry waited at the postern gate, two guards bound and trussed at their feet. the boat? davos asked them. it's there, lewys said. four oarsmen. the galley is anchored just past the point. mad prendos. davos chuckled. a ship named after a madman. yes, that's fitting. salla had a streak of the pirate's black humor. he went to one knee before edric storm. i must leave you now, he said. there's a boat waiting, to row you out to a galley. then it's off across the sea. you are robert's son so i know you will be brave, no matter what happens. i will. only... the boy hesitated. think of this as an adventure, my lord. davos tried to sound hale and cheerful. it's the start of your life's great adventure. may the warrior defend you. and may the father judge you justly, lord davos. the boy went with his cousin ser andrew out the postern gate. the others followed, all but the bastard of nightsong. may the father judge me justly, davos thought ruefully. but it was the king's judgment that concerned him now. these two? asked ser rolland of the guards, when he had closed and barred the gate. drag them into a cellar, said davos. you can cut them free when edric 's safely under way. the bastard gave a curt nod. there were no more words to say; the easy part was done. davos pulled his glove on, wishing he had not lost his luck. he had been a better man and a braver one with that bag of bones around his neck. he ran his shortened fingers through thinning brown hair, and wondered if it needed to be cut. he must look presentable when he stood before the king. dragonstone had never seemed so dark and fearsome. he walked slowly, his footsteps echoing off black walls and dragons. stone dragons who will never wake, i pray. the stone drum loomed huge ahead of him. the guards at the door uncrossed their spears as he approached. not for the onion knight, but for the king's hand. davos was the hand going in, at least. he wondered what he would be coming out. if i ever do... the steps seemed longer and steeper than before, or perhaps it was just that he was tired. the mother never made me for tasks like this. he had risen too high and too fast, and up here on the mountain the air was too thin for him to breathe. as a boy he'd dreamed of riches, but that was long ago. later, grown, all he had wanted was a few acres of good land, a hall to grow old in, a better life for his sons. the blind bastard used to tell him that a clever smuggler did not overreach, nor draw too much attention to himself. a few acres, a timbered roof, a ser before my name, i should have been content. if he survived this night, he would take devan and sail home to cape wrath and his gentle marya. we will grieve together for our dead sons, raise the living ones to be good men, and speak no more of kings. the chamber of the painted table was dark and empty when davos entered; the king would still be at the nightfire, with melisandre and the queen's men. he knelt and made a fire in the hearth, to drive the chill from the round chamber and chase the shadows back into their corners. then he went around the room to each window in turn, opening the heavy velvet curtains and unlatching the wooden shutters. the wind came in, strong with the smell of salt and sea, and pulled at his plain brown cloak. at the north window, he leaned against the sill for a breath of the cold night air, hoping to catch a glimpse of mad prendos raising sail, but the sea seemed black and empty as far as the eye could see. is she gone already? he could only pray that she was, and the boy with her. a half moon was sliding in and out amongst thin high clouds, and davos could see familiar stars. there was the galley, sailing west; there the crone's lantern, four bright stars that enclosed a golden haze. the clouds hid most of the ice dragon, all but the bright blue eye that marked due north. the sky is full of smugglers' stars. they were old friends, those stars; davos hoped that meant good luck. but when he lowered his gaze from the sky to the castle ramparts, he was not so certain. the wings of the stone dragons cast great black shadows in the light from the nightfire. he tried to tell himself that they were no more than carvings, cold and lifeless. this was their place, once. a place of dragons and dragonlords, the seat of house targaryen. the targaryens were the blood of old valyria... the wind sighed through the chamber, and in the hearth the flames gusted and swirled. he listened to the logs crackle and spit. when davos left the window his shadow went before him, tall and thin, and fell across the painted table like a sword. and there he stood for a long time, waiting. he heard their boots on the stone steps as they ascended. the king's voice went before him. ... is not three, he was saying. three is three, came melisandre's answer. i swear to you, your grace, i saw him die and heard his mother's wail. in the nightfire. stannis and melisandre came through the door together. the flames are full of tricks. what is, what will be, what may be. you cannot tell me for a certainty... your grace. davos stepped forward. lady melisandre saw it true. your nephew joffrey is dead. if the king was surprised to find him at the painted table, he gave no sign. lord davos, he said. he was not my nephew. though for years i believed he was. he choked on a morsel of food at his wedding feast, davos said. it may be that he was poisoned. he is the third, said melisandre. i can count, woman. stannis walked along the table, past oldtown and the arbor, up toward the shield islands and the mouth of the mander. weddings have become more perilous than battles, it would seem. who was the poisoner? is it known? his uncle, it's said. the imp. stannis ground his teeth. a dangerous man. i learned that on the blackwater. how do you come by this report? the lyseni still trade at king's landing. salladhor saan has no reason to lie to me. i suppose not. the king ran his fingers across the table. joffrey... i remember once, this kitchen cat... the cooks were wont to feed her scraps and fish heads. one told the boy that she had kittens in her belly, thinking he might want one. joffrey opened up the poor thing with a dagger to see if it were true. when he found the kittens, he brought them to show to his father. robert hit the boy so hard i thought he'd killed him. the king took off his crown and placed it on the table. dwarf or leech, this killer served the kingdom well. they must send for me now. they will not, said melisandre. joffrey has a brother. tommen. the king said the name grudgingly. they will crown tommen, and rule in his name. stannis made a fist. tommen is gentler than joffrey, but born of the same incest. another monster in the making. another leech upon the land. westeros needs a man's hand, not a child's. melisandre moved closer. save them, sire. let me wake the stone dragons. three is three. give me the boy. edric storm, davos said. stannis rounded on him in a cold fury. i know his name. spare me your reproaches. i like this no more than you do, but my duty is to the realm. my duty... he turned back to melisandre. you swear there is no other way? swear it on your life, for i promise, you shall die by inches if you lie. you are he who must stand against the other. the one whose coming was prophesied five thousand years ago. the red comet was your herald. you are the prince that was promised, and if you fail the world fails with you. melisandre went to him, her red lips parted, her ruby throbbing. give me this boy, she whispered, and i will give you your kingdom. he can't, said davos. edric storm is gone. gone? stannis turned. what do you mean, gone? he is aboard a lyseni galley, safely out to sea. davos watched melisandre 's pale, heart- shaped face. he saw the flicker of dismay there, the sudden uncertainty. she did not see it! the king's eyes were dark blue bruises in the hollows of his face. the bastard was taken from dragonstone without my leave? a galley, you say? if that lysene pirate thinks to use the boy to squeeze gold from me - this is your hand's work, sire. melisandre gave davos a knowing look. you will bring him back, my lord. you will. the boy is out of my reach, said davos. and out of your reach as well, my lady. her red eyes made him squirm. i should have left you to the dark, ser. do you know what you have done? my duty. some might call it treason. stannis went to the window to stare out into the night. is he looking for the ship? i raised you up from dirt, davos. he sounded more tired than angry. was loyalty too much to hope for? four of my sons died for you on the blackwater. i might have died myself. you have my loyalty, always. davos seaworth had thought long and hard about the words he said next; he knew his life depended on them. your grace, you made me swear to give you honest counsel and swift obedience, to defend your realm against your foes, to protect your people. is not edric storm one of your people? one of those i swore to protect? i kept my oath. how could that be treason? stannis ground his teeth again. i never asked for this crown. gold is cold and heavy on the head, but so long as i am the king, i have a duty... if i must sacrifice one child to the flames to save a million from the dark... sacrifice... is never easy, davos. or it is no true sacrifice. tell him, my lady. melisandre said, azor ahai tempered lightbringer with the heart's blood of his own beloved wife. if a man with a thousand cows gives one to god, that is nothing. but a man who offers the only cow he owns... she talks of cows, davos told the king. i am speaking of a boy, your daughter's friend, your brother's son. a king's son, with the power of kingsblood in his veins. melisandre 's ruby glowed like a red star at her throat. do you think you've saved this boy, onion knight? when the long night falls, edric storm shall die with the rest, wherever he is hidden. your own sons as well. darkness and cold will cover the earth. you meddle in matters you do not understand. there's much i don't understand, davos admitted. i have never pretended elsewise. i know the seas and rivers, the shapes of the coasts, where the rocks and shoals lie. i know hidden coves where a boat can land unseen. and i know that a king protects his people, or he is no king at all. stannis's face darkened. do you mock me to my face? must i learn a king's duty from an onion smuggler? davos knelt. if i have offended, take my head. i'll die as i lived, your loyal man. but hear me first. hear me for the sake of the onions i brought you, and the fingers you took. stannis slid lightbringer from its scabbard. its glow filled the chamber. say what you will, but say it quickly. the muscles in the king's neck stood out like cords. davos fumbled inside his cloak and drew out the crinkled sheet of parchment. it seemed a thin and flimsy thing, yet it was all the shield he had. a king's hand should be able to read and write. maester pylos has been teaching me. he smoothed the letter flat upon his knee and began to read by the light of the magic sword. 