an east wind blew through his tangled hair, as soft and fragrant as cersei's fingers. he could hear birds singing, and feel the river moving beneath the boat as the sweep of the oars sent them toward the pale pink dawn. after so long in darkness, the world was so sweet that jaime lannister felt dizzy. i am alive, and drunk on sunlight. a laugh burst from his lips, sudden as a quail flushed from cover. quiet, the wench grumbled, scowling. scowls suited her broad homely face better than a smile. not that jaime had ever seen her smiling. he amused himself by picturing her in one of cersei's silken gowns in place of her studded leather jerkin. as well dress a cow in silk as this one. but the cow could row. beneath her roughspun brown breeches were calves like cords of wood, and the long muscles of her arms stretched and tightened with each stroke of the oars. even after rowing half the night, she showed no signs of tiring, which was more than could be said for his cousin ser cleos, laboring on the other oar. a big strong peasant wench to look at her, yet she speaks like one highborn and wears longsword and dagger. ah, but can she use them? jaime meant to find out, as soon as he rid himself of these fetters. he wore iron manacles on his wrists and a matching pair about his ankles, joined by a length of heavy chain no more than a foot long. you'd think my word as a lannister was not good enough, he'd japed as they bound him. he'd been very drunk by then, thanks to catelyn stark. of their escape from riverrun, he recalled only bits and pieces. there had been some trouble with the gaoler, but the big wench had overcome him. after that they had climbed an endless stair, around and around. his legs were weak as grass, and he'd stumbled twice or thrice, until the wench lent him an arm to lean on. at some point he was bundled into a traveler's cloak and shoved into the bottom of a skiff. he remembered listening to lady catelyn command someone to raise the portcullis on the water gate. she was sending ser cleos frey back to king's landing with new terms for the queen, she'd declared in a tone that brooked no argument. he must have drifted off then. the wine had made him sleepy, and it felt good to stretch, a luxury his chains had not permitted him in the cell. jaime had long ago learned to snatch sleep in the saddle during a march. this was no harder. tyrion is going to laugh himself sick when he hears how i slept through my own escape. he was awake now, though, and the fetters were irksome. my lady, he called out, if you'll strike off these chains, i'll spell you at those oars. she scowled again, her face all horse teeth and glowering suspicion. you'll wear your chains, kings layer. you figure to row all the way to king's landing, wench? you will call me brienne. not wench. my name is ser jaime. not kingslayer. do you deny that you slew a king? no. do you deny your sex? if so, unlace those breeches and show me. he gave her an innocent smile. i'd ask you to open your bodice, but from the look of you that wouldn't prove much. ser cleos fretted. cousin, remember your courtesies. the lannister blood runs thin in this one. cleos was his aunt genna's son by that dullard emmon frey, who had lived in terror of lord tywin lannister since the day he wed his sister. when lord walder frey had brought the twins into the war on the side of riverrun, ser emmon had chosen his wife's allegiance over his father's. casterly rock got the worst of that bargain, jaime reflected. ser cleos looked like a weasel, fought like a goose, and had the courage of an especially brave ewe. lady stark had promised him release if he delivered her message to tyrion, and ser cleos had solemnly vowed to do so. they'd all done a deal of vowing back in that cell, jaime most of all. that was lady catelyn's price for loosing him. she had laid the point of the big wench's sword against his heart and said, swear that you will never again take up arms against stark nor tully. swear that you will compel your brother to honor his pledge to return my daughters safe and unharmed. swear on your honor as a knight, on your honor as a lannister, on your honor as a sworn brother of the kingsguard. swear it by your sister's life, and your father's, and your son's, by the old gods and the new, and i'll send you back to your sister. refuse, and i will have your blood. he remembered the prick of the steel through his rags as she twisted the point of the sword. i wonder what the high septon would have to say about the sanctity of oaths sworn while dead drunk, chained to a wall, with a sword pressed to your chest? not that jaime was truly concerned about that fat fraud, or the gods he claimed to serve. he remembered the pail lady catelyn had kicked over in his cell. a strange woman, to trust her girls to a man with shit for honor. though she was trusting him as little as she dared. she is putting her hope in tyrion, not in me. perhaps she is not so stupid after all, he said aloud. his captor took it wrong. i am not stupid. nor deaf. he was gentle with her; mocking this one would be so easy there would be no sport to it. i was speaking to myself, and not of you. it's an easy habit to slip into in a cell. she frowned at him, pushing the oars forward, pulling them back, pushing them forward, saying nothing. as glib of tongue as she is fair of face. by your speech, i'd judge you nobly born. my father is selwyn of tarth, by the grace of the gods lord of evenfall. even that was given grudgingly. tarth, jaime said. a ghastly large rock in the narrow sea, as i recall. and evenfall is sworn to storm's end. how is it that you serve robb of winterfell? it is lady catelyn i serve. and she commanded me to deliver you safe to your brother tyrion at king's landing, not to bandy words with you. be silent. i've had a bellyful, of silence, woman. talk with ser cleos then. i have no words for monsters. jaime hooted. are there monsters hereabouts? hiding beneath the water, perhaps? in that thick of willows? and me without my sword! a man who would violate his own sister, murder his king, and fling an innocent child to his death deserves no other name. innocent? the wretched boy was spying on us. all jaime had wanted was an hour alone with cersei. their journey north had been one long torment; seeing her every day, unable to touch her, knowing that robert stumbled drunkenly into her bed every night in that great creaking wheelhouse. tyrion had done his best to keep him in a good humor, but it had not been enough. you will be courteous as concerns cersei, wench, he warned her. my name is brienne, not wench. what do you care what a monster calls you? my name is brienne, she repeated, dogged as a hound. lady brienne? she looked so uncomfortable that jaime sensed a weakness. or would ser brienne be more to your taste? he laughed. no, i fear not. you can trick out a milk cow in crupper, crinet, and charnfron, and bard her all in silk, but that doesn't mean you can ride her into battle. cousin jaime, please, you ought not speak so roughly. under his cloak, ser cleos wore a surcoat quartered with the twin towers of house frey and the golden lion of lannister. we have far to go, we should not quarrel amongst ourselves. when i quarrel i do it with a sword, coz i was speaking to the lady. tell me, wench, are all the women on tarth as homely as you? i pity the men, if so. perhaps they do not know what real women look like, living on a dreary mountain in the sea. tarth is beautiful, the wench grunted between strokes. the sapphire isle, it's called. be quiet, monster, unless you mean to make me gag you. she's rude as well, isn't she, coz? jaime asked ser cleos. though she has steel in her spine, i'll grant you. not many men dare name me monster to my face. though behind my back they speak freely enough, i have no doubt. ser cleos coughed nervously. lady brienne had those lies from catelyn stark, no doubt. the starks cannot hope to defeat you with swords, ser, so now they make war with poisoned words. they did defeat me with swords, you chinless cretin. jaime smiled knowingly. men will read all sorts of things into a knowing smile, if you let them. has cousin cleos truly swallowed this kettle of dung, or is he striving to ingratiate himself? what do we have here, an honest muttonhead or a lickspittle? ser cleos prattled blithely on. any man who'd believe that a sworn brother of the kingsguard would harm a child does not know the meaning of honor. lickspittle. if truth be told, jaime had come to rue heaving brandon stark out that window. cersei had given him no end of grief afterward, when the boy refused to die. he was seven, jaime, she'd berated him. even if he understood what he saw, we should have been able to frighten him into silence. i didn't think you'd want - you never think. if the boy should wake and tell his father what he saw - if if if. he had pulled her into his lap. if he wakes we'll say he was dreaming, we'll call him a liar, and should worse come to worst i'll kill ned stark. and then what do you imagine robert will do? let robert do as he pleases. i'll go to war with him if i must. the war for cersei's cunt, the singers will call it. jaime, let go of me! she raged, struggling to rise. instead he had kissed her. for a moment she resisted, but then her mouth opened under his. he remembered the taste of wine and cloves on her tongue. she gave a shudder. his hand went to her bodice and yanked, tearing the silk so her breasts spilled free, and for a time the stark boy had been forgotten. had cersei remembered him afterward and hired this man lady catelyn spoke of, to make sure the boy never woke? if she wanted him dead she would have sent me. and it is not like her to chose a catspaw who would make such a royal botch of the killing. downriver, the rising sun shimmered against the wind- whipped surface of the river. the south shore was red clay, smooth as any road. smaller streams fed into the greater, and the rotting trunks of drowned trees clung to the banks. the north shore was wilder. high rocky bluffs rose twenty feet above them, crowned by stands of beech, oak, and chestnut. jaime spied a watchtower on the heights ahead, growing taller with every stroke of the oars. long before they were upon it, he knew that it stood abandoned, its weathered stones overgrown with climbing roses. when the wind shifted, ser cleos helped the big wench run up the sail, a stiff triangle of striped red-and-blue canvas. tully colors, sure to cause them grief if they encountered any lannister forces on the river, but it was the only sail they had. brienne took the rudder. jaime threw out the leeboard, his chains rattling as he moved. after that, they made better speed, with wind and current both favoring their flight. we could save a deal of traveling if you delivered me to my father instead of my brother, he pointed out. lady catelyn's daughters are in king's landing. i will return with the girls or not at all. jaime turned to ser cleos. cousin, lend me your knife. no. the woman tensed. i will not have you armed. her voice was as unyielding as stone. she fears me, even in irons. cleos, it seems i must ask you to shave me. leave the beard, but take the hair off my head. you'd be shaved bald? asked cleos frey. the realm knows jaime lannister as a beardless knight with long golden hair. a bald man with a filthy yellow beard may pass unnoticed. i'd sooner not be recognized while i'm in irons. the dagger was not as sharp as it might have been. cleos hacked away manfully, sawing and ripping his way through the mats and tossing the hair over the side. the golden curls floated on the surface of the water, gradually falling astern. as the tangles vanished, a louse went crawling down his neck. jaime caught it and crushed it against his thumbnail. ser cleos picked others from his scalp and flicked them into the water. jaime doused his head and made ser cleos whet the blade before he let him scrape away the last inch of yellow stubble. when that was done, they trimmed back his beard as well. the reflection in the water was a man he did not know. not only was he bald, but he looked as though he had aged five years in that dungeon; his face was thinner, with hollows under his eyes and lines he did not remember. i don't look as much like cersei this way. she'll hate that. by midday, ser cleos had fallen asleep. his snores sounded like ducks mating. jaime stretched out to watch the world flow past; after the dark cell, every rock and tree was a wonder. a few one-room shacks came and went, perched on tall poles that made them look like cranes. of the folk who lived there they saw no sign. birds flew overhead, or cried out from the trees along the shore, and jaime glimpsed silvery fish knifing through the water. tully trout, there's a bad omen, he thought, until he saw a worse - one of the floating logs they passed turned out to be a dead man, bloodless and swollen. his cloak was tangled in the roots of a fallen tree, its color unmistakably lannister crimson. he wondered if the corpse had been someone he knew. the forks of the trident were the easiest way to move goods or men across the riverlands. in times of peace, they would have encountered fisherfolk in their skiffs, grain barges being poled downstream, merchants selling needles and bolts of cloth from floating shops, perhaps even a gaily painted mummer's boat with quilted sails of half a hundred colors, making its way upriver from village to village and castle to castle. but the war had taken its toll. they sailed past villages, but saw no villagers. an empty net, slashed and torn and hanging from some trees, was the only sign of fisherfolk. a young girl watering her horse rode off as soon as she glimpsed their sail. later they passed a dozen peasants digging in a field beneath the shell of a burnt towerhouse. the men gazed at them with dull eyes, and went back to their labors once they decided the skiff was no threat. the red fork was wide and slow, a meandering river of loops and bends dotted with tiny wooded islets and frequently choked by sandbars and snags that lurked just below the water's surface. brienne seemed to have a keen eye for the dangers, though, and always seemed to find the channel. when jaime complimented her on her knowledge of the river, she looked at him suspiciously and said, i do not know the river. tarth is an island. i learned to manage oars and sail before i ever sat a horse. ser cleos sat up and rubbed at his eyes. gods, my arms are sore. i hope the wind lasts. he sniffed at it. i smell rain. jaime would welcome a good rain. the dungeons of riverrun were not the cleanest place in the seven kingdoms. by now he must smell like an overripe cheese. cleos squinted downriver. smoke. a thin grey finger crooked them on. it was rising from the south bank several miles on, twisting and curling. below, jaime made out the smoldering remains of a large building, and a live oak full of dead women. the crows had scarcely started on their corpses. the thin ropes cut deeply into the soft flesh of their throats, and when the wind blew they twisted and swayed. this was not chivalrously done, said brienne when they were close enough to see it clearly. no true knight would condone such wanton butchery. true knights see worse every time they ride to war, wench, said jaime. and do worse, yes. brienne turned the rudder toward the shore. i'll leave no innocents to be food for crows. a heartless wench. crows need to eat as well. stay to the river and leave the dead alone, woman. they landed upstream of where the great oak leaned out over the water. as brienne lowered the sail, jaime climbed out, clumsy in his chains. the red fork filled his boots and soaked through the ragged breeches. laughing, he dropped to his knees, plunged his head under the water, and came up drenched and dripping. his hands were caked with dirt, and when he rubbed them clean in the current they seemed thinner and paler than he remembered. his legs were stiff as well, and unsteady when he put his weight upon them. i was too bloody long in hoster tully's dungeon. brienne and cleos dragged the skiff onto the bank. the corpses hung above their heads, ripening in death like foul fruit. one of us will need to cut them down, the wench said. i'll climb. jaime waded ashore, clanking. just get these chains off. the wench was staring up at one of the dead women. jaime shuffled closer with small stutter steps, the only kind the foot-long chain permitted. when he saw the crude sign hung about the neck of the highest corpse, he smiled. they lay with lions, he read. oh, yes, woman, this was most unchivalrously done... but by your side, not mine. i wonder who they were, these women? tavern wenches, said ser cleos frey. this was an inn, i remember it now. some men of my escort spent the night here when we last returned to riverrun. nothing remained of the building but the stone foundation and a tangle of collapsed beams, charred black. smoke still rose from the ashes. jaime left brothels and whores to his brother tyrion; cersei was the only woman he had ever wanted. the girls pleasured some of my lord father's soldiers, it would seem. perhaps served them food and drink. that's how they earned their traitors' collars, with a kiss and a cup of ale. he glanced up and down the river, to make certain they were quite alone. this is bracken land. lord jonos might have ordered them killed. my father burned his castle, i fear he loves us not. it might be marq piper's work, said ser cleos. or that wisp o' the wood beric dondarrion, though i'd heard he kills only soldiers. perhaps a band of roose bolton's northmen? bolton was defeated by my father on the green fork. but not broken, said ser cleos. he came south again when lord tywin marched against the fords. the word at riverrun was that he'd taken harrenhal from ser amory lorch. jaime liked the sound of that not at all. brienne, he said, granting her the courtesy of the name in the hopes that she might listen, if lord bolton holds harrenhal, both the trident and the kingsroad are likely watched. he thought he saw a touch of uncertainty in her big blue eyes. you are under my protection. they'd need to kill me. i shouldn't think that would trouble them. i am as good a fighter as you, she said defensively. i was one of king renly's chosen seven. with his own hands, he cloaked me with the striped silk of the rainbow guard. the rainbow guard? you and six other girls, was it? a singer once said that all maids are fair in silk... but he never met you, did he? the woman turned red. we have graves to dig. she went to climb the tree. the lower limbs of the oak were big enough for her to stand upon once she'd gotten up the trunk. she walked amongst the leaves, dagger in hand, cutting down the corpses. flies swarmed around the bodies as they fell, and the stench grew worse with each one she dropped. this is a deal of trouble to take for whores, ser cleos complained. what are we supposed to dig with? we have no spades, and i will not use my sword, i - brienne gave a shout. she jumped down rather than climbing. to the boat. be quick. there's a sail. they made what haste they could, though jaime could hardly run, and had to be pulled back up into the skiff by his cousin. brienne shoved off with an oar and raised sail hurriedly. ser cleos, i'll need you to row as well. he did as she bid. the skiff began to cut the water a bit faster; current, wind, and oars all worked for them. jaime sat chained, peering upriver. only the top of the other sail was visible. with the way the red fork looped, it looked to be across the fields, moving north behind a screen of trees while they moved south, but he knew that was deceptive. he lifted both hands to shade his eyes. mud red and watery blue, he announced. brienne's big mouth worked soundlessly, giving her the look of a cow chewing its cud. faster, ser. the inn soon vanished behind them, and they lost sight of the top of the sail as well, but that meant nothing. once the pursuers swung around the loop they would become visible again. we can hope the noble tullys will stop to bury the dead whores, i suppose. the prospect of returning to his cell did not appeal to jaime. tyrion could think of something clever now, but all that occurs to me is to go at them with a sword. for the good part of an hour they played peek-and-seek with the pursuers, sweeping around bends and between small wooded isles, just when they were starting to hope that somehow they might have left behind the pursuit, the distant sail became visible again. ser cleos paused in his stroke. the others take them. he wiped sweat from his brow. row! brienne said. that is a river galley coming after us, jaime announced after he'd watched for a while. with every stroke, it seemed to grow a little larger. nine oars on each side ' which means eighteen men. more, if they crowded on fighters as well as rowers. and larger sails than ours. we cannot outrun her. ser cleos froze at his oars. eighteen, you said? six for each of us. i'd want eight, but these bracelets hinder me somewhat. jaime held up his wrists. unless the lady brienne would be so kind as to unshackle me? she ignored him, putting all her effort into her stroke. we had half a night's start on them, jaime said. they've been rowing since dawn, resting two oars at a time. they'll be exhausted, just now the sight of our sail has given them a burst of strength, but that will not last. we ought to be able to kill a good many of them. ser cleos gaped. but... there are eighteen. at the least. more likely twenty or twenty-five. his cousin groaned. we can't hope to defeat eighteen. did i say we could? the best we can hope for is to die with swords in our hands. he was perfectly sincere. jaime lannister had never been afraid of death. brienne broke off rowing. sweat had stuck strands of her flax-colored hair to her forehead, and her grimace made her look homelier than ever. you are under my protection, she said, her voice so thick with anger that it was almost a growl. he had to laugh at such fierceness. she's the hound with teats, he thought. or would be, if she had any teats to speak of. then protect me, wench. or free me to protect myself. the galley was skimming downriver, a great wooden dragonfly. the water around her was churned white by the furious action of her oars. she was gaining visibly, the men on her deck crowding forward as she came on. metal glinted in their hands, and jaime could see bows as well. archers. he hated archers. at the prow of the onrushing galley stood a stocky man with a bald head, bushy grey eyebrows, and brawny arms. over his mail he wore a soiled white surcoat with a weeping willow embroidered in pale green, but his cloak was fastened with a silver trout. riverrun's captain of guards. in his day ser robin ryger had been a notably tenacious fighter, but his day was done; he was of an age with hoster tully, and had grown old with his lord. when the boats were fifty yards apart, jaime cupped his hands around his mouth and shouted back over the water. come to wish me godspeed, ser robin? come to take you back, kingslayer, ser robin ryger bellowed. how is it that you've lost your golden hair? i hope to blind my enemies with the sheen off my head. it's worked well enough for you. ser robin was unamused. the distance between skiff and galley had shrunk to forty yards. throw your oars and your weapons into the river, and no one need be harmed. ser cleos twisted around. jaime, tell him we were freed by lady catelyn... an exchange of captives, lawful... jaime told him, for all the good it did. catelyn stark does not rule in riverrun, ser robin shouted back. four archers crowded into position on either side of him, two standing and two kneeling. cast your swords into the water. i have no sword, he returned, but if i did, i'd stick it through your belly and hack the balls off those four cravens. a flight of arrows answered him. one thudded into the mast, two pierced the sail, and the fourth missed jaime by a foot. another of the red fork's broad loops loomed before them. brienne angled the skiff across the bend. the yard swung as they turned, their sail cracking as it filled with wind. ahead a large island sat in midstream. the main channel flowed right. to the left a cutoff ran between the island and the high bluffs of the north shore. brienne moved the tiller and the skiff sheared left, sail rippling. jaime watched her eyes. pretty eyes, he thought, and calm. he knew how to read a man's eyes. he knew what fear looked like. she is determined, not desperate. thirty yards behind, the galley was entering the bend. ser cleos, take the tiller, the wench commanded. kingslayer, take an oar and keep us off the rocks. as my lady commands. an oar was not a sword, but the blade could break a man's face if well swung, and the shaft could be used to parry. ser cleos shoved the oar into jaime's hand and scrambled aft. they crossed the head of the island and turned sharply down the cutoff, sending a wash of water against the face of the bluff as the boat tilted. the island was densely wooded, a tangle of willows, oaks, and tall pines that cast deep shadows across the rushing water, hiding snags and the rotted trunks of drowned trees. to their left the bluff rose sheer and rocky, and at its foot the river foamed whitely around broken boulders and tumbles of rock fallen from the cliff face. they passed from sunlight into shadow, hidden from the galley's view between the green wall of the trees and the stony grey-brown bluff. a few moments' respite from the arrows, jaime thought, pushing them off a half-submerged boulder. the skiff rocked. he heard a soft splash, and when he glanced around, brienne was gone. a moment later he spied her again, pulling herself from the water at the base of the bluff. she waded through a shallow pool, scrambled over some rocks, and began to climb. ser cleos goggled, mouth open. fool, thought jaime. ignore the wench, he snapped at his cousin. steer. they could see the sail moving behind the trees. the river galley came into full view at the top of the cutoff, twenty- five yards behind. her bow swung hard as she came around, and a half- dozen arrows took flight, but all went well wide. the motion of the two boats was giving the archers difficulty, but jaime knew they'd soon enough learn to compensate. brienne was halfway up the cliff face, pulling herself from handhold to handhold. ryger's sure to see her, and once he does he'll have those bowmen bring her down. jaime decided to see if the old man's pride would make him stupid. ser robin, he shouted, hear me for a moment. ser robin raised a hand, and his archers lowered their bows. say what you will, kingslayer, but say it quickly. the skiff swung through a litter of broken stones as jaime called out, i know a better way to settle this - single combat. you and i i was not born this morning, lannister. no, but you're like to die this afternoon. jaime raised his hands so the other could see the manacles. i'll fight you in chains. what could you fear? not you, ser. if the choice were mine, i'd like nothing better, but i am commanded to bring you back alive if possible. bowmen. he signaled them on. notch. draw loo - the range was less than twenty yards. the archers could scarcely have missed, but as they pulled on their longbows a rain of pebbles cascaded down around them. small stones rattled on their deck, bounced off their helms, and made splashes on both sides of the bow. those who had wits enough to understand raised their eyes just as a boulder the size of a cow detached itself from the top of the bluff. ser robin shouted in dismay. the stone tumbled through the air, struck the face of the cliff, cracked in two, and smashed down on them. the larger piece snapped the mast, tore through the sail, sent two of the archers flying into the river, and crushed the leg of a rower as he bent over his oar. the rapidity with which the galley began to fill with water suggested that the smaller fragment had punched right through her hull. the oarsman's screams echoed off the bluff while the archers flailed wildly in the current. from the way they were splashing, neither man could swim. jaime laughed. by the time they emerged from the cutoff, the galley was foundering amongst pools, eddies, and snags, and jaime lannister had decided that the gods were good. ser robin and his thrice- damned archers would have a long wet walk back to riverrun, and he was rid of the big homely wench as well. i could not have planned it better myself. once i'm free of these irons... ser cleos raised a shout. when jaime looked up, brienne was lumbering along the clifftop, well ahead of them, having cut across a finger of land while they were following the bend in the river. she threw herself off the rock, and looked almost graceful as she folded into a dive. it would have been ungracious to hope that she would smash her head on a stone. ser cleos turned the skiff toward her. thankfully, jaime still had his oar. one good swing when she comes paddling up and i'll be free of her. instead he found himself stretching the oar out over the water. brienne grabbed hold, and jaime pulled her in. as he helped her into the skiff, water ran from her hair and dripped from her sodden clothing to pool on the deck. she's even uglier wet. who would have thought it possible? you're a bloody stupid wench, he told her. we could have sailed on without you. i suppose you expect me to thank you? i want none of your thanks, kingslayer. i swore an oath to bring you safe to king's landing. and you actually mean to keep it? jaime gave her his brightest smile. now there's a wonder. jaime was the first to spy the inn. the main building hugged the south shore where the river bent, its long low wings outstretched along the water as if to embrace travelers sailing downstream. the lower story was grey stone, the upper whitewashed wood, the roof slate. he could see stables as well, and an arbor heavy with vines. no smoke from the chimneys, he pointed out as they approached. nor lights in the windows. the inn was still open when last i passed this way, said ser cleos frey. they brewed a fine ale. perhaps there is still some to be had in the cellars. there may be people, brienne said. hiding. or dead. frightened of a few corpses, wench? jaime said. she glared at him. my name is - - brienne, yes. wouldn't you like to sleep in a bed for a night, brienne? we'd be safer than on the open river, and it might be prudent to find what's happened here. she gave no answer, but after a moment she pushed at the tiller to angle the skiff in toward the weathered wooden dock. ser cleos scrambled to take down the sail. when they bumped softly against the pier, he climbed out to tie them up. jaime clambered after him, made awkward by his chains. at the end of the dock, a flaking shingle swung from an iron post, painted with the likeness of a king upon his knees, his hands pressed together in the gesture of fealty. jaime took one look and laughed aloud. we could not have found a better inn. is this some special place? the wench asked, suspicious. ser cleos answered. this is the inn of the kneeling man, my lady. it stands upon the very spot where the last king in the north knelt before aegon the conqueror to offer his submission. that's him on the sign, i suppose. torrhen had brought his power south after the fall of the two kings on the field of fire, said jaime, but when he saw aegon's dragon and the size of his host, he chose the path of wisdom and bent his frozen knees. he stopped at the sound of a horse's whinny. horses in the stable. one at least. and one is all i need to put the wench behind me. let's see who's home, shall we? without waiting for an answer, jaime went clinking down the dock, put a shoulder to the door, shoved it open... ... and found himself eye to eye with a loaded crossbow. standing behind it was a chunky boy of fifteen. lion, fish, or wolf? the lad demanded. we were hoping for capon. jaime heard his companions entering behind him. the crossbow is a coward's weapon. it'll put a bolt through your heart all the same. perhaps. but before you can wind it again my cousin here will spill your entrails on the floor. don't be scaring the lad, now, ser cleos said. we mean no harm, the wench said. and we have coin to pay for food and drink. she dug a silver piece from her pouch. the boy looked suspiciously at the coin, and then at jaime's manacles. why's this one in irons? killed some crossbowmen, said jaime. do you have ale? yes. the boy lowered the crossbow an inch. undo your swordbelts and let them fall, and might be we'll feed you. he edged around to peer through the thick, diamond-shaped windowpanes and see if any more of them were outside. that's a tully sail. we come from riverrun. brienne undid the clasp on her belt and let it clatter to the floor. ser cleos followed suit. a sallow man with a pocked doughy face stepped through the cellar door, holding a butcher's heavy cleaver. three, are you? we got horsemeat enough for three, the horse was old and tough, but the meat's still fresh. is there bread? asked brienne. hardbread and stale oatcakes. jaime grinned. now there's an honest innkeep. they'll all serve you stale bread and stringy meat, but most don't own up to it so freely. i'm no innkeep. i buried him out back, with his women. did you kill them? would i tell you if i did? the man spat. likely it were wolves' work, or maybe lions, what's the difference? the wife and i found them dead. the way we see it, the place is ours now. where is this wife of yours? ser cleos asked. the man gave him a suspicious squint. and why would you be wanting to know that? she's not here... no more'n you three will be, unless i like the taste of your silver. brienne tossed the coin to him. he caught it in the air, bit it, and tucked it away. she's got more, the boy with the crossbow announced. so she does. boy, go down and find me some onions. the lad raised the crossbow to his shoulder, gave them one last sullen look, and vanished into the cellar. your son? ser cleos asked. just a boy the wife and me took in. we had two sons, but the lions killed one and the other died of the flux. the boy lost his mother to the bloody mummers. these days, a man needs someone to keep watch while he sleeps. he waved the cleaver at the tables. might as well sit. the hearth was cold, but jaime picked the chair nearest the ashes and stretched out his long legs under the table. the clink of his chains accompanied his every movement. an irritating sound. before this is done, i'll wrap these chains around the wench's throat, see how she likes them then. the man who wasn't an innkeep charred three huge horse steaks and fried the onions in bacon grease, which almost made up for the stale oatcakes. jaime and cleos drank ale, brienne a cup of cider. the boy kept his distance, perching atop the cider barrel with his crossbow across his knees, cocked and loaded. the cook drew a tankard of ale and sat with them. what news from riverrun? he asked ser cleos, taking him for their leader. ser cleos glanced at brienne before answering. lord hoster is failing, but his son holds the fords of the red fork against the lannisters. there have been battles. battles everywhere. where are you bound, ser? king's landing. ser cleos wiped grease off his lips. their host snorted. then you're three fools. last i heard, king stannis was outside the city walls. they say he has a hundred thousand men and a magic sword. jaime's hands wrapped around the chain that bound his wrists, and he twisted it taut, wishing for the strength to snap it in two. then i'd show stannis where to sheathe his magic sword. i'd stay well clear of that kingsroad, if i were you, the man went on. it's worse than bad, i hear. wolves and lions both, and bands of broken men preying on anyone they can catch. vermin, declared ser cleos with contempt. such would never dare to trouble armed men. begging your pardon, ser, but i see one armed man, traveling with a woman and a prisoner in chains. brienne gave the cook a dark look. the wench does hate being reminded that she's a wench, jaime reflected, twisting at the chains again. the links were cold and hard against his flesh, the iron implacable. the manacles had chafed his wrists raw. i mean to follow the trident to the sea, the wench told their host. we'll find mounts at maidenpool and ride by way of duskendale and rosby. that should keep us well away from the worst of the fighting. their host shook his head. you'll never reach maidenpool by river. not thirty miles from here a couple boats burned and sank, and the channel's been silting up around them. there's a nest of outlaws there preying on anyone tries to come by, and more of the same downriver around the skipping stones and red deer island. and the lightning lord's been seen in these parts as well. he crosses the river wherever he likes, riding this way and that way, never still. and who is this lightning lord? demanded ser cleos frey. lord beric, as it please you, ser. they call him that 'cause he strikes so sudden, like lightning from a clear sky. it's said he cannot die. they all die when you shove a sword through them, jaime thought. does thoros of myr still ride with him? aye. the red wizard. i've heard tell he has strange powers. well, he had the power to match robert baratheon drink for drink, and there were few enough who could say that. jaime had once heard thoros tell the king that he became a red priest because the robes hid the winestains so well. robert had laughed so hard he'd spit ale all over cersei's silken mantle. far be it from me to make objection, he said, but perhaps the trident is not our safest course. i'd say that's so, their cook agreed. even if you get past red deer island and don't meet up with lord beric and the red wizard, there's still the ruby ford before you. last i heard, it was the leech lord's wolves held the ford, but that was some time past. by now it could be lions again, or lord beric, or anyone. or no one, brienne suggested. if m'lady cares to wager her skin on that i won't stop her... but if i was you, i'd leave this here river, cut overland. if you stay off the main roads and shelter under the trees of a night, hidden as it were... well, i still wouldn't want to go with you, but you might stand a mummer's chance. the big wench was looking doubtful. we would need horses. there are horses here, jaime pointed out. i heard one in the stable. aye, there are, said the innkeep, who wasn't an innkeep. three of them, as it happens, but they're not for sale. jaime had to laugh. of course not. but you'll show them to us anyway. brienne scowled, but the man who wasn't an innkeep met her eyes without blinking, and after a moment, reluctantly, she said, show me, and they all rose from the table. the stables had not been mucked out in a long while, from the smell of them. hundreds of fat black flies swarmed amongst the straw, buzzing from stall to stall and crawling over the mounds of horse dung that lay everywhere, but there were only the three horses to be seen. they made an unlikely trio; a lumbering brown plow horse, an ancient white gelding blind in one eye, and a knight's palfrey, dapple grey and spirited. they're not for sale at any price, their alleged owner announced. how did you come by these horses? brienne wanted to know. the dray was stabled here when the wife and me come on the inn, the man said, along with the one you just ate. the gelding come wandering up one night, and the boy caught the palfrey running free, still saddled and bridled. here, i'll show you. the saddle he showed them was decorated with silver inlay. the saddlecloth had originally been checkered pink and black, but now it was mostly brown. jaime did not recognize the original colors, but he recognized bloodstains easily enough. well, her owner won't be coming to claim her anytime soon. he examined the palfrey's legs, counted the gelding's teeth. give him a gold piece for the grey, if he'll include the saddle, he advised brienne. a silver for the plow horse. he ought to pay us for taking the white off his hands. don't speak discourteously of your horse, ser. the wench opened the purse lady catelyn had given her and took out three golden coins. i will pay you a dragon for each. he blinked and reached for the gold, then hesitated and drew his hand back. i don't know. i can't ride no golden dragon if i need to get away. nor eat one if i'm hungry. you can have our skiff as well, she said. sail up the river or down, as you like. let me have a taste ol that gold. the man took one of the coins from her palm and bit it. hm. real enough, i'd say. three dragons and the skiff? he's robbing you blind, wench, jaime said amiably. i'll want provisions too, brienne told their host, ignoring jaime. whatever you have that you can spare. there's more oatcakes. the man scooped the other two dragons from her palm and jingled them in his fist, smiling at the sound they made. aye, and smoked salt fish, but that will cost you silver. my beds will be costing as well. you'll be wanting to stay the night. no, brienne said at once. the man frowned at her. woman, you don't want to go riding at night through strange country on horses you don't know. you're like to blunder into some bog or break your horse's leg. the moon will be bright tonight, brienne said. we'll have no trouble finding our way. their host chewed on that. if you don't have the silver, might be some coppers would buy you them beds, and a coverlet or two to keep you warm. it's not like i'm turning travelers away, if you get my meaning. that sounds more than fair, said ser cleos. the coverlets is fresh washed, too. my wife saw to that before she had to go off. not a flea to be found neither, you have my word on that. he jingled the coins again, smiling. ser cleos was plainly tempted. a proper bed would do us all good, my lady, he said to brienne. we'd make better time on the morrow once refreshed. he looked to his cousin for support. no, coz, the wench is right. we have promises to keep, and long leagues before us. we ought ride on. but, said cleos, you said yourself - then. when i thought the inn deserted. now i have a full belly, and a moonlight ride will be just the thing. he smiled for the wench. but unless you mean to throw me over the back of that plow horse like a sack of flour, someone had best do something about these irons. it's difficult to ride with your ankles chained together. brienne frowned at the chain. the man who wasn't an innkeep rubbed his jaw. there's a smithy round back of the stable. show me, brienne said. yes, said jaime, and the sooner the better. there's far too much horse shit about here for my taste. i would hate to step in it. he gave the wench a sharp look, wondering if she was bright enough to take his meaning. he hoped she might strike the irons off his wrists as well, but brienne was still suspicious. she split the ankle chain in the center with a halfdozen sharp blows from the smith's hammer delivered to the blunt end of a steel chisel. when he suggested that she break the wrist chain as well, she ignored him. six miles downriver you'll see a burned village, their host said as he was helping them saddle the horses and load their packs. this time he directed his counsel at brienne. the road splits there. if you turn south, you'll come on ser warren's stone towerhouse. ser warren went off and died, so i couldn't say who holds it now, but it's a place best shunned. you'd do better to follow the track through the woods, south by east. we shall, she answered. you have my thanks. more to the point, he has your gold. jaime kept the thought to himself. he was tired of being disregarded by this huge ugly cow of a woman. she took the plow horse for herself and assigned the palfrey to ser cleos. as threatened, jaime drew the one-eyed gelding, which put an end to any thoughts he might have had of giving his horse a kick and leaving the wench in his dust. the man and the boy came out to watch them leave. the man wished them luck and told them to come back in better times, while the lad stood silent, his crossbow under his arm. take up the spear or maul, jaime told him, they'll serve you better. the boy stared at him distrustfully. so much for friendly advice. he shrugged, turned his horse, and never looked back. ser cleos was all complaints as they rode out, still in mourning for his lost featherbed. they rode east, along the bank of the moonlit river. the red fork was very broad here, but shallow, its banks all mud and reeds. jaime's mount plodded along placidly, though the poor old thing had a tendency to want to drift off to the side of his good eye. it felt good to be mounted once more. he had not been on a horse since robb stark's archers had killed his destrier under him in the whispering wood. when they reached the burned village, a choice of equally unpromising roads confronted them; narrow tracks, deeply rutted by the carts of farmers hauling their grain to the river. one wandered off toward the southeast and soon vanished amidst the trees they could see in the distance, while the other, straighter and stonier, arrowed due south. brienne considered them briefly, and then swung her horse onto the southern road. jaime was pleasantly surprised; it was the same choice he would have made. but this is the road the innkeep warned us against, ser cleos objected. he was no innkeep. she hunched gracelessly in the saddle, but seemed to have a sure seat nonetheless. the man took too great an interest in our choice of route, and those woods... such places are notorious haunts of outlaws. he may have been urging us into a trap. clever wench. jaime smiled at his cousin. our host has friends down that road, i would venture. the ones whose mounts gave that stable such a memorable aroma. he may have been lying about the river as well, to put us on these horses, the wench said, but i could not take the risk. there will be soldiers at the ruby ford and the crossroads. well, she may be ugly but she's not entirely stupid. jaime gave her a grudging smile. the ruddy light from the upper windows of the stone towerhouse gave them warning of its presence a long way off, and brienne led them off into the fields. only when the stronghold was well to the rear did they angle back and find the road again. half the night passed before the wench allowed that it might be safe to stop. by then all three of them were drooping in their saddles. they sheltered in a small grove of oak and ash beside a sluggish stream. the wench would allow no fire, so they shared a midnight supper of stale oatcakes and salt fish. the night was strangely peaceful. the half-moon sat overhead in a black felt sky, surrounded by stars. off in the distance, some wolves were howling. one of their horses whickered nervously. there was no other sound. the war has not touched this place, jaime thought. he was glad to be here, glad to be alive, glad to be on his way back to cersei. i'll take the first watch, brienne told ser cleos, and frey was soon snoring softly. jaime sat against the bole of an oak and wondered what cersei and tyrion were doing just now. do you have any siblings, my lady? he asked. brienne squinted at him suspiciously. no. i was my father's only child. jaime chuckled. son, you meant to say. does he think of you as a son? you make a queer sort of daughter, to be sure. wordless, she turned away from him, her knuckles tight on her sword hilt. what a wretched creature this one is. she reminded him of tyrion in some queer way, though at first blush two people could scarcely be any more dissimilar. perhaps it was that thought of his brother that made him say, i did not intend to'give offense, brienne. forgive me. your crimes are past forgiving, kingslayer. that name again. jaime twisted idly at his chains. why do i enrage you so? i've never done you harm that i know of. you've harmed others. those you were sworn to protect. the weak, the innocent... ... the king? it always came back to aerys. don't presume to judge what you do not understand, wench. my name is -  - brienne, yes. has anyone ever told you that you're as tedious as you are ugly? you will not provoke me to anger, kingslayer. oh, i might, if i cared enough to try. why did you take the oath? she demanded. why don the white cloak if you meant to betray all it stood for? why? what could he say that she might possibly understand? i was a boy. fifteen. it was a great honor for one so young. that is no answer, she said scornfully. you would not like the truth. he had joined the kingsguard for love, of course. their father had summoned cersei to court when she was twelve, hoping to make her a royal marriage. he refused every offer for her hand, preferring to keep her with him in the tower of the hand while she grew older and more womanly and ever more beautiful. no doubt he was waiting for prince viserys to mature, or perhaps for rhaegar's wife to die in childbed. elia of dome was never the healthiest of women. jaime, meantime, had spent four years as squire to ser sumner crakehall and earned his spurs against the kingswood brotherhood. but when he made a brief call at king's landing on his way back to casterly rock, chiefly to see his sister, cersei took him aside and whispered that lord tywin meant to marry him to lysa tully, had gone so far as to invite lord hoster to the city to discuss dower. but if jaime took the white, he could be near her always. old ser harlan grandison had died in his sleep, as was only appropriate for one whose sigil was a sleeping lion. aerys would want a young man to take his place, so why not a roaring lion in place of a sleepy one? father will never consent, jaime objected. the king won't ask him. and once it's done, father can't object, not openly. aerys had ser ilyn payne's tongue torn out just for boasting that it was the hand who truly ruled the seven kingdoms. the captain of the hand's guard, and yet father dared not try and stop it! he won't stop this, either. but, jaime said, there's casterly rock... is it a rock you want? or me? he remembered that night as if it were yesterday. they spent it in an old inn on eel alley, well away from watchful eyes. cersei had come to him dressed as a simple serving wench, which somehow excited him all the more. jaime had never seen her more passionate. every time he went to sleep, she woke him again. by morning casterly rock seemed a small price to pay to be near her always. he gave his consent, and cersei promised to do the rest. a moon's turn later, a royal raven arrived at casterly rock to inform him that he had been chosen for the kingsguard. he was commanded to present himself to the king during the great tourney at harrenhal to say his vows and don his cloak. jaime's investiture freed him from lysa tully. elsewise, nothing went as planned. his father had never been more furious. he could not object openly - cersei had judged that correctly - but he resigned the handship on some thin pretext and returned to casterly rock, taking his daughter with him. instead of being together, cersei and jaime just changed places, and he found himself alone at court, guarding a mad king while four lesser men took their turns dancing on knives in his father's ill-fitting shoes. so swiftly did the hands rise and fall that jaime remembered their heraldry better than their faces. the horn-of-plenty hand and the dancing griffins hand had both been exiled, the mace-and-dagger hand dipped in wildfire and burned alive. lord rossart had been the last. his sigil had been a burning torch; an unfortunate choice, given the fate of his predecessor, but the alchemist had been elevated largely because he shared the king's passion for fire. i ought to have drowned rossart instead of gutting him. brienne was still awaiting his answer. jaime said, you are not old enough to have known aerys targaryen... she would not hear it. aerys was mad and cruel, no one has ever denied that. he was still king, crowned and anointed. and you had sworn to protect him. i know what i swore. and what you did. she loomed above him, six feet of freckled, frowning, horse-toothed disapproval. yes, and what you did as well. we're both kingslayers here, if what i've heard is true. i never harmed renly. i'll kill the man who says i did. best start with cleos, then. and you'll have a deal of killing to do after that, the way he tells the tale. lies. lady catelyn was there when his grace was murdered, she saw. there was a shadow. the candles guttered and the air grew cold, and there was blood - oh, very good. jaime laughed. your wits are quicker than mine, i confess it. when they found me standing over my dead king, i never thought to say, 'no, no, it wasn't me, it was a shadow, a terrible cold shadow. ' he laughed again. tell me true, one kingslayer to another did the starks pay you to slit his throat, or was it stannis? had renly spurned you, was that the way of it? or perhaps your moon's blood was on you. never give a wench a sword when she's bleeding. for a moment jaime thought brienne might strike him. a step closer, and i'll snatch that dagger from her sheath and bury it up her womb. he gathered a leg under him, ready to spring, but the wench did not move. it is a rare and precious gift to be a knight, she said, and even more so a knight of the kingsguard. it is a gift given to few, a gift you scorned and soiled. a gift you want desperately, wench, and can never have. i earned my knighthood. nothing was given to me. i won a tourney melee at thirteen, when i was yet a squire. at fifteen, i rode with ser arthur dayne against the kingswood brotherhood, and he knighted me on the battlefield. it was that white cloak that soiled me, not the other way around. so spare me your envy. it was the gods who neglected to give you a cock, not me. the look brienne gave him then was full of loathing. she would gladly hack me to pieces, but for her precious vow, he reflected. good. i've had enough of feeble pieties and maidens' judgments. the wench stalked off without saying a word. jaime curled up beneath his cloak, hoping to dream of cersei. but when he closed his eyes, it was aerys targaryen he saw, pacing alone in his throne room, picking at his scabbed and bleeding hands. the fool was always cutting himself on the blades and barbs of the iron throne. jaime had slipped in through the king's door, clad in his golden armor, sword in hand. the golden armor, not the white, but no one ever remembers that. would that i had taken off that damned cloak as well. when aerys saw the blood on his blade, he demanded to know if it was lord tywin's. i want him dead, the traitor. i want his head, you'll bring me his head, or you'll burn with all the rest. all the traitors. rossart says they are inside the walls! he's gone to make them a warm welcome. whose blood? whose? rossart's, answered jaime. those purple eyes grew huge then, and the royal mouth drooped open in shock. he lost control of his bowels, turned, and ran for the iron throne. beneath the empty eyes of the skulls on the walls, jaime hauled the last dragonking bodily off the steps, squealing like a pig and smelling like a privy. a single slash across his throat was all it took to end it. so easy, he remembered thinking. a king should die harder than this. rossart at least had tried to make a fight of it, though if truth be told he fought like an alchemist. queer that they never ask who killed rossart... but of course, he was no one, lowborn, hand for a fortnight, just another mad fancy of the mad king. ser elys westerling and lord crakehall and others of his father's knights burst into the hall in time to see the last of it, so there was no way for jaime to vanish and let some braggart steal the praise or blame. it would be blame, he knew at once when he saw the way they looked at him... though perhaps that was fear. lannister or no, he was one of aerys's seven. the castle is ours, ser, and the city, roland crakehall told him, which was half true. targaryen loyalists were still dying on the serpentine steps and in the armory, gregor clegane and amory lorch were scaling the walls of maegor's holdfast, and ned stark was leading his northmen through the king's gate even then, but crakehall could not have known that. he had not seemed surprised to find aerys slain; jaime had been lord tywin's son long before he had been named to the kingsguard. tell them the mad king is dead, he commanded. spare all those who yield and hold them captive, shall i proclaim a new king as well? crakehall asked, and jaime read the question plain: shall it be your father, or robert baratheon, or do you mean to try to make a new dragonking? he thought for a moment of the boy viserys, fled to dragonstone, and of rhaegar's infant son aegon, still in maegor's with his mother. a new targaryen king, and my father as hand. how the wolves will howl, and the storm lord choke with rage. for a moment he was tempted, until he glanced down again at the body on the floor, in its spreading pool of blood. his blood is in both of them, he thought. proclaim who you bloody well like, he told crakehall. then he climbed the iron throne and seated himself with his sword across his knees, to see who would come to claim the kingdom. as it happened, it had been eddard stark. you had no right to judge me either, stark. in his dreams the dead came burning, gowned in swirling green flames. jaime danced around them with a golden sword, but for every one he struck down two more arose to take his place. brienne woke him with a boot in the ribs. the world was still black, and it had begun to rain. they broke their fast on oatcakes, salt fish, and some blackberries that ser cleos had found, and were back in the saddle before the sun came up. two days' ride to either side of the kingsroad, they passed through a wide swath of destruction, miles of blackened fields and orchards where the trunks of dead trees jutted into the air like archers' stakes. the bridges were burnt as well, and the streams swollen by autumn rains, so they had to range along the banks in search of fords. the nights were alive with howling of wolves, but they saw no people. at maidenpool, lord mooton's red salmon still flew above the castle on its hill, but the town walls were deserted, the gates smashed, half the homes and shops burned or plundered. they saw nothing living but a few feral dogs that went slinking away at the sound of their approach. the pool from which the town took its name, where legend said that florian the fool had first glimpsed jonquil bathing with her sisters, was so choked with rotting corpses that the water had turned into a murky grey-green soup. jaime took one look and burst into song. six maids there were in a spring-fed pool... what are you doing? brienne demanded. singing. 'six maids in a pool i'm sure you've heard it. and shy little maids they were, too. rather like you. though somewhat prettier, i'll warrant. be quiet, the wench said, with a look that suggested she would love to leave him floating in the pool among the corpses. please, jaime, pleaded cousin cleos. lord mooton is sworn to riverrun, we don't want to draw him out of his castle. and there may be other enemies hiding in the rubble... hers or ours? they are not the same, coz. i have a yen to see if the wench can use that sword she wears. if you won't be quiet, you leave me no choice but to gag you, kingslayer. unchain my hands and i'll play mute all the way to king's landing. what could be fairer than that, wench? brienne! my name is brienne! three crows went flapping into the air startled at the sound. care for a bath, brienne? he laughed. you're a maiden and there's the pool. i'll wash your back. he used to scrub cersei's back, when they were children together at casterly rock. the wench turned her horse's head and trotted away. jaime and ser cleos followed her out of the ashes of maidenpool. a half mile on, green began to creep back into the world once more. jaime was glad. the burned lands reminded him too much of aerys. she's taking the duskendale road, ser cleos muttered, it would be safer to follow the coast. safer but slower. i'm for duskendale, coz. if truth be told, i'm bored with your company. you may be half lannister, but you're a far cry from my sister. he could never bear to be long apart from his twin. even as children, they would creep into each other's beds and sleep with their arms entwined. even in the womb. long before his sister's flowering or the advent of his own manhood, they had seen mares and stallions in the fields and dogs and bitches in the kennels and played at doing the same. once their mother's maid had caught them at it... he did not recall just what they had been doing, but whatever it was had horrified lady joanna. she'd sent the maid away, moved jaime's bedchamber to the other side of casterly rock, set a guard outside cersei's, and told them that they must never do that again or she would have no choice but to tell their lord father. they need not have feared, though. it was not long after that she died birthing tyrion. jaime barely remembered what his mother had looked like. perhaps stannis baratheon and the starks had done him a kindness. they had spread their tale of incest all over the seven kingdoms, so there was nothing left to hide. why shouldn't i marry cersei openly and share her bed every night? the dragons always married their sisters. septons, lords, and smallfolk had turned a blind eye to the targaryens for hundreds of years, let them do the same for house lannister. it would play havoc with joffrey's claim to the crown, to be sure, but in the end it had been swords that had won the iron throne for robert, and swords could keep joffrey there as well, regardless of whose seed he was. we could marry him to myrcella, once we've sent sansa stark back to her mother. that would show the realm that the lannisters are above their laws, like gods and targaryens. jaime had decided that he would return sansa, and the younger girl as well if she could be found. it was not like to win him back his lost honor, but the notion of keeping faith when they all expected betrayal amused him more than he could say. they were riding past a trampled wheatfield and a low stone wall when jaime heard a soft thrum from behind, as if a dozen birds had taken flight at once. down! he shouted, throwing himself against the neck of his horse. the gelding screamed and reared as an arrow took him in the rump, other shafts went hissing past. jaime saw ser cleos lurch from the saddle, twisting as his foot caught in the stirrup. his palfrey bolted, and frey was dragged past shouting, head bouncing against the ground. jaime's gelding lumbered off ponderously, blowing and snorting in pain. he craned around to look for brienne. she was still ahorse, an arrow lodged in her back and another in her leg, but she seemed not to feel them. he saw her pull her sword and wheel in a circle, searching for the bowmen. behind the wall, jaime called, fighting to turn his halfblind mount back toward the fight. the reins were tangled in his damned chains, and the air was full of arrows again. at them! he shouted, kicking to show her how it was done. the old sorry horse found a burst of speed from somewhere. suddenly they were racing across the wheatfield, throwing up clouds of chaff. jaime had just enough time to think, the wench had better follow before they realize they're being charged by an unarmed man in chains. then he heard her coming hard behind. evenfall! she shouted as her plow horse thundered by. she brandished her longsword. tarth! tarth! a few last arrows sped harmlessly past; then the bowmen broke and ran, the way unsupported bowmen always broke and ran before the charge of knights. brienne reined up at the wall. by the time jaime reached her, they had all melted into the wood twenty yards away. lost your taste for battle? they were running. that's the best time to kill them. she sheathed her sword. why did you charge? bowmen are fearless so long as they can hide behind walls and shoot at you from afar, but if you come at them, they run. they know what will happen when you reach them. you have an arrow in your back, you know. and another in your leg. you ought to let me tend them. you? who else? the last i saw of cousin cleos, his palfrey was using his head to plow a furrow. though i suppose we ought to find him. he is a lannister of sorts. they found cleos still tangled in his stirrup. he had an arrow through his right arm and a second in his chest, but it was the ground that had done for him. the top of his head was matted with blood and mushy to the touch, pieces of broken bone moving under the skin beneath the pressure of jaime's hand. brienne knelt and held his hand. he's still warm. he'll cool soon enough. i want his horse and his clothes. i'm weary of rags and fleas. he was your cousin. the wench was shocked. was, jaime agreed. have no fear, i am amply provisioned in cousins. i'll have his sword as well. you need someone to share the watches. you can stand a watch without weapons. she rose. chained to a tree? perhaps i could. or perhaps i could make my own bargain with the next lot of outlaws and let them slit that thick neck of yours, wench. i will not arm you. and my name is -  - brienne, i know. i'll swear an oath not to harm you, if that will ease your girlish fears. your oaths are worthless. you swore an oath to aerys. you haven't cooked anyone in their armor so far as i know. and we both want me safe and whole in king's landing, don't we? he squatted beside cleos and began to undo his swordbelt. step away from him. now. stop that. jaime was tired. tired of her suspicions, tired of her insults, tired of her crooked teeth and her broad spotty face and that limp thin hair of hers. ignoring her protests, he grasped the hilt of his cousin's longsword with both hands, held the corpse down with his foot, and pulled. as the blade slid from the scabbard, he was already pivoting, bringing the sword around and up in a swift deadly arc. steel met steel with a ringing, bone-jarring clang. somehow brienne had gotten her own blade out in time. jaime laughed. very good, wench. give me the sword, kingslayer. oh, i will. he sprang to his feet and drove at her, the longsword alive in his hands. brienne jumped back, parrying, but he followed, pressing the attack. no sooner did she turn one cut than the next was upon her. the swords kissed and sprang apart and kissed again. jaime's blood was singing. this was what he was meant for; he never felt so alive as when he was fighting, with death balanced on every stroke. and with my wrists chained together, the wench may even give me a contest for a time. his chains forced him to use a two-handed grip, though of course the weight and reach were less than if the blade had been a true two-handed greatsword, but what did it matter? his cousin's sword was long enough to write an end to this brienne of tarth. high, low, overhand, he rained down steel upon her. left, right, backslash, swinging so hard that sparks flew when the swords came together, upswing, sideslash, overhand, always attacking, moving into her, step and slide, strike and step, step and strike, hacking, slashing, faster, faster, faster... ... until, breathless, he stepped back and let the point of the sword fall to the ground, giving her a moment of respite. not half bad, he acknowledged. for a wench. she took a slow deep breath, her eyes watching him warily. i would not hurt you, kingslayer. as if you could. he whirled the blade back up above his head and flew at her again, chains rattling. jaime could not have said how long he pressed the attack. it might have been minutes or it might have been hours; time slept when swords woke. he drove her away from his cousin's corpse, drove her across the road, drove her into the trees. she stumbled once on a root she never saw, and for a moment he thought she was done, but she went to one knee instead of falling, and never lost a beat. her sword leapt up to block a downcut that would have opened her from shoulder to groin, and then she cut at him, again and again, fighting her way back to her feet stroke by stroke. the dance went on. he pinned her against an oak, cursed as she slipped away, followed her through a shallow brook half-choked with fallen leaves. steel rang, steel sang, steel screamed and sparked and scraped, and the woman started grunting like a sow at every crash, yet somehow he could not reach her. it was as if she had an iron cage around her that stopped every blow. not bad at all, he said when he paused for a second to catch his breath, circling to her right. for a wench? for a squire, say. a green one. he laughed a ragged, breathless laugh. come on, come on, my sweetling, the music's still playing. might i have this dance, my lady? grunting, she came at him, blade whirling, and suddenly it was jaime struggling to keep steel from skin. one of her slashes raked across his brow, and blood ran down into his right eye. the others take her, and riverrun as well! his skills had gone to rust and rot in that bloody dungeon, and the chains were no great help either. his eye closed, his shoulders were going numb from the jarring they'd taken, and his wrists ached from the weight of chains, manacles, and sword. his longsword grew heavier with every blow, and jaime knew he was not swinging it as quickly as he'd done earlier, nor raising it as high. she is stronger than i am. the realization chilled him. robert had been stronger than him, to be sure. the white bull gerold hightower as well, in his heyday, and ser arthur dayne. amongst the living, greatjon umber was stronger, strongboar of crakehall most likely, both cleganes for a certainty. the mountain's strength was like nothing human. it did not matter. with speed and skill, jaime could beat them all. but this was a woman. a huge cow of a woman, to be sure, but even so... by rights, she should be the one wearing down. instead she forced him back into the brook again, shouting, yield! throw down the sword! a slick stone turned under jaime's foot. as he felt himself falling, he twisted the mischance into a diving lunge. his point scraped past her parry and bit into her upper thigh. a red flower blossomed, and jaime had an instant to savor the sight of her blood before his knee slammed into a rock. the pain was blinding. brienne splashed into him and kicked away his sword. yield! jaime drove his shoulder into her legs, bringing her down on top of him. they rolled, kicking and punching until finally she was sitting astride him. he managed to jerk her dagger from its sheath, but before he could plunge it into her belly she caught his wrist and slammed his hands back on a rock so hard he thought she'd wrenched an arm from its socket. her other hand spread across his face. yield! she shoved his head down, held it under, pulled it up. yield! jaime spit water into her face. a shove, a splash, and he was under again, kicking uselessly, fighting to breathe. up again. yield, or i'll drown you! and break your oath? he snarled. like me? she let him go, and he went down with a splash. and the woods rang with coarse laughter. brienne lurched to her feet. she was all mud and blood below the waist, her clothing askew, her face red. she looks as if they caught us fucking instead of fighting. jaime crawled over the rocks to shallow water, wiping the blood from his eye with his chained hands. armed men lined both sides of the brook. small wonder, we were making enough noise to wake a dragon. well met, friends, he called to them amiably. my pardons if i disturbed you. you caught me chastising my wife. seemed to me she was doing the chastising. the man who spoke was thick and powerful, and the nasal bar of his iron halfhelm did not wholly conceal his lack of a nose. these were not the outlaws who had killed ser cleos, jaime realized suddenly. the scum of the earth surrounded them: swarthy dornishmen and blond lyseni, dothraki with bells in their braids, hairy ibbenese, coal-black summer islanders in feathered cloaks. he knew them. the brave companions. brienne found her voice. i have a hundred stags - a cadaverous man in a tattered leather cloak said, we'll take that for a start, m'lady. then we'll have your cunt, said the noseless man. it can't be as ugly as the rest of you. turn her over and rape her arse, rorge, urged a dornish spearman with a red silk scarf wound about his helm. that way you won't need to look at her. and rob her o' the pleasure o' looking at me? noseless said, and the others laughed. ugly and stubborn though she might be, the wench deserved better than to be gang raped by such refuse as these. who commands here? jaime demanded loudly. i have that honor, ser jaime. the cadaver's eyes were rimmed in red, his hair thin and dry. dark blue veins could be seen through the pallid skin of his hands and face. urswyck i am. called urswyck the faithful. you know who i am? the sellsword inclined his head, it takes more than a beard and a shaved head to deceive the brave companions. the bloody mummers, you mean. jaime had no more use for these than he did for gregor clegane or amory lorch. dogs, his father called them all, and he used them like dogs, to hound his prey and put fear in their hearts. if you know me, urswyck, you know you'll have your reward. a lannister always pays his debts. as for the wench, she's highborn, and worth a good ransom. the other cocked his head. is it so? how fortunate. there was something sly about the way urswyck was smiling that jaime did not like. you heard me. where's the goat? a few hours distant. he will be pleased to see you, i have no doubt, but i would not call him a goat to his face. lord vargo grows prickly about his dignity. since when has that slobbering savage had dignity? i'll be sure and remember that, when i see him. lord of what, pray? harrenhal. it has been promised. harrenhal? has my father taken leave of his senses? jaime raised his hands. i'll have these chains off. urswyck 's chuckle was papery dry. something is very wrong here. jaime gave no sign of his discomfiture, but only smiled. did i say something amusing? noseless grinned. you're the funniest thing i seen since biter chewed that septa's teats off. you and your father lost too many battles, offered the dornishman. we had to trade our lion pelts for wolfskins. urswyck spread his hands. what timeon means to say is that the brave companions are no longer in the hire of house lannister. we now serve lord bolton, and the king in the north. jaime gave him a cold, contemptuous smile. and men say i have shit for honor? urswyck was unhappy with that comment. at his signal, two of the mummers grasped jaime by the arms and rorge drove a mailed fist into his stomach. as he doubled over grunting, he heard the wench protesting, stop, he's not to be harmed! lady catelyn sent us, an exchange of captives, he's under my protection... rorge hit him again, driving the air from his lungs. brienne dove for her sword beneath the waters of the brook, but the mummers were on her before she could lay hands on it. strong as she was, it took four of them to beat her into submission. by the end the wench's face was as swollen and bloody as jaime's must have been, and they had knocked out two of her teeth. it did nothing to improve her appearance. stumbling and bleeding, the two captives were dragged back through the woods to the horses, brienne limping from the thigh wound he'd given her in the brook. jaime felt sorry for her. she would lose her maidenhood tonight, he had no doubt. that noseless bastard would have her for a certainty, and some of the others would likely take a turn. the dornishman bound them back to back atop brienne's plow horse while the other mummers were stripping cleos frey to his skin to divvy up his possessions. rorge won the bloodstained surcoat with its proud lannister and frey quarterings. the arrows had punched holes through lions and towers alike. i hope you're pleased, wench, jaime whispered at brienne. he coughed, and spat out a mouthful of blood. if you'd armed me, we'd never have been taken. she made no answer. there's a pig-stubborn bitch, he thought. but brave, yes. he could not take that from her. when we make camp for the night, you'll be raped, and more than once, he warned her. you'd be wise not to resist. if you fight them, you'll lose more than a few teeth. he felt brienne's back stiffen against his. is that what you would do, if you were a woman? if i were a woman i'd be cersei. if i were a woman, i'd make them kill me. but i'm not. jaime kicked their horse to a trot. urswyck! a word! the cadaverous sellsword in the ragged leather cloak reined up a moment, then fell in beside him. what would you have of me, ser? and mind your tongue, or i'll chastise you again. gold, said jaime. you do like gold? urswyck studied him through reddened eyes. it has its uses, i do confess. jaime gave urswyck a knowing smile. all the gold in casterly rock. why let the goat enjoy it? why not take us to king's landing, and collect my ransom for yourself? hers as well, if you like. tarth is called the sapphire isle, a maiden told me once. the wench squirmed at that, but said nothing. do you take me for a turncloak? certainly. what else? for half a heartbeat urswyck considered the proposition. king's landing is a long way, and your father is there. lord tywin may resent us for selling harrenhal to lord bolton. he's cleverer than he looks. jaime had been been looking forward to hanging the wretch while his pockets bulged with gold. leave me to deal with my father. i'll get you a royal pardon for any crimes you have committed. i'll get you a knighthood. ser urswyck, the man said, savoring the sound. how proud my dear wife would be to hear it. if only i hadn't killed her. he sighed. and what of brave lord vargo? shall i sing you a verse of 'the rains of castamere'? the goat won't be quite so brave when my father gets hold of him. and how will he do that? are your father's arms so long that they can reach over the walls of harrenhal and pluck us out? if need be. king harren's monstrous folly had fallen before, and it could fall again. are you such a fool as to think the goat can outfight the lion? urswyck leaned over and slapped him lazily across the face. the sheer casual insolence of it was worse than the blow itself. he does not fear me, jaime realized, with a chill. i have heard enough, kingslayer. i would have to be a great fool indeed to believe the promises of an oathbreaker like you. he kicked his horse and galloped smartly ahead. aerys, jaime thought resentfully. it always turns on aerys. he swayed with the motion of his horse, wishing for a sword. two swords would be even better. one for the wench and one for me. we'd die, but we'd take half of them down to hell with us. why did you tell him tarth was the sapphire isle? brienne whispered when urswyck was out of earshot. he's like to think my father's rich in gemstones... you best pray he does. is every word you say a lie, kingslayer? tarth is called the sapphire isle for the blue of its waters. shout it a little louder, wench, i don't think urswyck heard you. the sooner they know how little you're worth in ransom, the sooner the rapes begin. every man here will mount you, but what do you care? just close your eyes, open your legs, and pretend they're all lord renly. mercifully, that shut her mouth for a time. the day was almost done by the time they found vargo hoat, sacking a small sept with another dozen of his brave companions. the leaded windows had been smashed, the carved wooden gods dragged out into the sunlight. the fattest dothraki jaime had ever seen was sitting on the mother's chest when they rode up, prying out her chalcedony eyes with the point of his knife. nearby, a skinny balding septon hung upside down from the limb of a spreading chestnut tree. three of the brave companions were using his corpse for an archery butt. one of them must have been good; the dead man had arrows through both of his eyes. when the sellswords spied urswyck and the captives, a cry went up in half a dozen tongues. the goat was seated by a cookfire eating a half-cooked bird off a skewer, grease and blood running down his fingers into his long stringy beard. he wiped his hands on his tunic and rose. kingthlayer, he slobbered. you are my captifth. my lord, i am brienne of tarth, the wench called out. lady catelyn stark commanded me to deliver ser jaime to his brother at king's landing. the goat gave her a disinterested glance. thilence her. hear me, brienne entreated as rorge cut the ropes that bound her to jaime, in the name of the king in the north, the king you serve, please, listen - rorge dragged her off the horse and began to kick her. see that you don't break any bones, urswyck called out to him. the horse-faced bitch is worth her weight in sapphires. the dornishman timeon and a foul-smelling ibbenese pulled jaime down from the saddle and shoved him roughly toward the cookfire. it would not have been hard for him to have grasped one of their sword hilts as they manhandled him, but there were too many, and he was still in fetters. he might cut down one or two, but in the end he would die for it. jaime was not ready to die just yet, and certainly not for the likes of brienne of tarth. thith ith a thweet day, vargo hoat said. around his neck hung a chain of linked coins, coins of every shape and size, cast and hammered, bearing the likenesses of kings, wizards, gods and demons, and all manner of fanciful beasts. coins from every land where he has fought, jaime remembered. greed was the key to this man. if he was turned once, he can be turned again. lord vargo, you were foolish to leave my father's service, but it is not too late to make amends. he will pay well for me, you know it. oh yeth, said vargo hoat. half the gold in cathterly rock, i thall have. but firth i mutht thend him a methage. he said something in his slithery goatish tongue. urswyck shoved him in the back, and a jester in green and pink motley kicked his legs out from under him. when he hit the ground one of the archers grabbed the chain between jaime's wrists and used it to yank his arms out in front of him. the fat dothraki put aside his knife to unsheathe a huge curved arakh, the wickedly sharp scythe-sword the horselords loved. they mean to scare me. the fool hopped on jaime's back, giggling, as the dothraki swaggered toward him. the goat wants me to piss my breeches and beg his mercy, but he'll never have that pleasure. he was a lannister of casterly rock, lord commander of the kingsguard; no sellsword would make him scream. sunlight ran silver along the edge of the arakh as it came shivering down, almost too fast to see. and jaime screamed. his hand burned. still, still, long after they had snuffed out the torch they'd used to sear his bloody stump, days after, he could still feel the fire lancing up his arm, and his fingers twisting in the flames, the fingers he no longer had. he had taken wounds before, but never like this. he had never known there could be such pain. sometimes, unbidden, old prayers bubbled from his lips, prayers he learned as a child and never thought of since, prayers he had first prayed with cersei kneeling beside him in the sept at casterly rock. sometimes he even wept, until he heard the mummers laughing. then he made his eyes go dry and his heart go dead, and prayed for his fever to burn away his tears. now i know how tyrion has felt, all those times they laughed at him. after the second time he fell from the saddle, they bound him tight to brienne of tarth and made them share a horse again. one day, instead of back to front, they bound them face-to-face. the lovers, shagwell sighed loudly, and what a lovely sight they are. 'twould be cruel to separate the good knight and his lady. then he laughed that high shrill laugh of his, and said, ah, but which one is the knight and which one is the lady? if i had my hand, you'd learn that soon enough, jaime thought. his arms ached and his legs were numb from the ropes, but after a while none of that mattered. his world shrunk to the throb of agony that was his phantom hand, and brienne pressed against him. she's warm, at least, he consoled himself, though the wench's breath was as foul as his own. his hand was always between them. urswyck had hung it about his neck on a cord, so it dangled down against his chest, slapping brienne's breasts as jaime slipped in and out of consciousness. his right eye was swollen shut, the wound inflamed where brienne had cut him during their fight, but it was his hand that hurt the most. blood and pus seeped from his stump, and the missing hand throbbed every time the horse took a step. his throat was so raw that he could not eat, but he drank wine when they gave it to him, and water when that was all they offered. once they handed him a cup and he quaffed it straight away, trembling, and the brave companions burst into laughter so loud and harsh it hurt his ears. that's horse piss you're drinking, kingslayer, rorge told him. jaime was so thirsty he drank it anyway, but afterward he retched it all back up. they made brienne wash the vomit out of his beard, just as they made her clean him up when he soiled himself in the saddle. one damp cold morning when he was feeling slightly stronger, a madness took hold of him and he reached for the dornishman's sword with his left hand and wrenched it clumsily from its scabbard. let them kill me, he thought, so long as i die fighting, a blade in hand. but it was no good. shagwell came hopping from leg to leg, dancing nimbly aside when jaime slashed at him. unbalanced, he staggered forward, hacking wildly at the fool, but shagwell spun and ducked and darted until all the mummers were laughing at jaime's futile efforts to land a blow. when he tripped over a rock and stumbled to his knees, the fool leapt in and planted a wet kiss atop his head. rorge finally flung him aside and kicked the sword from jaime's feeble fingers as he tried to bring it up. that wath amuthing, kingthlayer, said vargo hoat, but if you try it again, i thall. take your other hand, or perhapth a foot. jaime lay on his back afterward, staring at the night sky, trying not to feel the pain that snaked up his right arm every time he moved it. the night was strangely beautiful. the moon was a graceful crescent, and it seemed as though he had never seen so many stars. the king's crown was at the zenith, and he could see the stallion rearing, and there the swan. the moonmaid, shy as ever, was half-hidden behind a pine tree. how can such a night be beautiful? he asked himself. why would the stars want to look down on such as me? jaime, brienne whispered, so faintly he thought he was dreaming it. jaime, what are you doing? dying, he whispered back. no, she said, no, you must live. he wanted to laugh. stop telling me what do, wench. i'll die if it pleases me. are you so craven? the word shocked him. he was jaime lannister, a knight of the kingsguard, he was the kingslayer. no man had ever called him craven. other things they called him, yes; oathbreaker, liar, murderer. they said he was cruel, treacherous, reckless. but never craven. what else can i do, but die? live, she said, live, and fight, and take revenge. but she spoke too loudly. rorge heard her voice, if not her words, and came over to kick her, shouting at her to hold her bloody tongue if she wanted to keep it. craven, jaime thought, as brienne fought to stifle her moans. can it be? they took my sword hand. was that all i was, a sword hand? gods be good, is it true? the wench had the right of it. he could not die. cersei was waiting for him. she would have need of him. and tyrion, his little brother, who loved him for a lie. and his enemies were waiting too; the young wolf who had beaten him in the whispering wood and killed his men around him, edmure tully who had kept him in darkness and chains, these brave companions. when morning came, he made himself eat. they fed him a mush of oats, horse food, but he forced down every spoon. he ate again at evenfall, and the next day. live, he told himself harshly, when the mush was like to gag him, live for cersei, live for tyrion. live for vengeance. a lannister always pays his debts. his missing hand throbbed and burned and stank. when i reach king's landing i'll have a new hand forged, a golden hand, and one day i'll use it to rip out vargo hoat's throat. the days and the nights blurred together in a haze of pain. he would sleep in the saddle, pressed against brienne, his nose full of the stink of his rotting hand, and then at night he would lie awake on the hard ground, caught in a waking nightmare. weak as he was, they always bound him to a tree. it gave him some cold consolation to know that they feared him that much, even now. brienne was always bound beside him. she lay there in her bonds like a big dead cow, saying not a word. the wench has built a fortress inside herself. they will rape her soon enough, but behind her walls they cannot touch her. but jaime's walls were gone. they had taken his hand, they had taken his sword hand, and without it he was nothing. the other was no good to him. since the time he could walk, his left arm had been his shield arm, no more. it was his right hand that made him a knight; his right arm that made him a man. one day, he heard urswyck say something about harrenhal, and remembered that was to be their destination. that made him laugh aloud, and that made timeon slash his face with a long thin whip. the cut bled, but beside his hand he scarcely felt it. why did you laugh? the wench asked him that night, in a whisper. harrenhal was where they gave me the white cloak, he whispered back. whent's great tourney. he wanted to show us all his big castle and his fine sons. i wanted to show them too. i was only fifteen, but no one could have beaten me that day. aerys never let me joust. he laughed again. he sent me away. but now i'm coming back. they heard the laugh. that night it was jaime who got the kicks and punches. he hardly felt them either, until rorge slammed a boot into his stump, and then he fainted. it was the next night when they finally came, three of the worst; shagwell, noseless rorge, and the fat dothraki zollo, the one who'd cut his hand off. zollo and rorge were arguing about who would go first as they approached; there seemed to be no question but that the fool would be going last. shagwell suggested that they should both go first, and take her front and rear. zollo and rorge liked that notion, only then they began to fight about who would get the front and who the rear. they will leave her a cripple too, but inside, where it does not show wench, he whispered as zollo and rorge were cursing one another, let them have the meat, and you go far away. it will be over quicker, and they'll get less pleasure from it. they'll get no pleasure from what i'll give them, she whispered back, defiant. stupid stubborn brave bitch. she was going to get herself good and killed, he knew it. and what do i care if she does? if she hadn't been so pigheaded, i'd still have a hand. yet he heard himself whisper, let them do it, and go away inside. that was what he'd done, when the starks had died before him, lord rickard cooking in his armor while his son brandon strangled himself trying to save him. think of renly, if you loved him. think of tarth, mountains and seas, pools, waterfalls, whatever you have on your sapphire isle, think... but rorge had won the argument by then. you're the ugliest woman i ever seen, he told brienne, but don't think i can't make you uglier. you want a nose like mine? fight me, and you'll get one. and two eyes, that's too many. one scream out o' you, and i'll pop one out and make you eat it, and then i'll pull your fucking teeth out one by one. oh, do it, rorge, pleaded shagwell. without her teeth, she'll look just like my dear old mother. he cackled. and i always wanted to fuck my dear old mother up the arse. jaime chuckled. there's a funny fool. i have a riddle for you, shagwell. why do you care if she screams? oh, wait, i know. he shouted, sapphires, as loudly as he could. cursing, rorge kicked at his stump again. jaime howled. i never knew there was such agony in the world, was the last thing he remembered thinking. it was hard to say how long he was gone, but when the pain spit him out, urswyck was there, and vargo hoat himself. thee'th not to be touched, the goat screamed, spraying spittle all over zollo. thee hath to be a maid, you foolth! thee'th worth a bag of thapphireth! and from then on, every night hoat put guards on them, to protect them from his own. two nights passed in silence before the wench finally found the courage to whisper, jaime? why did you shout out? why did i shout 'sapphires, 'you mean? use your wits, wench. would this lot have cared if i shouted 'rape'? you did not need to shout at all. you're hard enough to look at with a nose. besides, i wanted to make the goat say 'thapphireth. ' he chuckled. a good thing for you i'm such a liar. an honorable man would have told the truth about the sapphire isle. all the same, she said. i thank you, ser. his hand was throbbing again. he ground his teeth and said, a lannister pays his debts. that was for the river, and those rocks you dropped on robin ryger. the goat wanted to make a show of parading him in, so jaime was made to dismount a mile from the gates of harrenhal. a rope was looped around his waist, a second around brienne's wrists; the ends were tied to the pommel of vargo hoat's saddle. they stumbled along side by side behind the qohorik's striped zorse. jaime's rage kept him walking. the linen that covered the stump was grey and stinking with pus. his phantom fingers screamed with every step. i am stronger than they know, he told himself. i am still a lannister. i am still a knight of the kingsguard. he would reach harrenhal, and then king's landing. he would live. and i will pay this debt with interest. as they approached the clifflike walls of black harren's monstrous castle, brienne squeezed his arm. lord bolton holds this castle. the boltons are bannermen to the starks. the boltons skin their enemies. jaime remembered that much about the northman. tyrion would have known all there was to know about the lord of the dreadfort, but tyrion was a thousand leagues away, with cersei. i cannot die while cersei lives, he told himself. we will die together as we were born together. the castleton outside the walls had been burned to ash and blackened stone, and many men and horses had recently encamped beside the lakeshore, where lord whent had staged his great tourney in the year of the false spring. a bitter smile touched jaime's lips as they crossed that torn ground. someone had dug a privy trench in the very spot where he'd once knelt before the king to say his vows. i never dreamed how quick the sweet would turn to sour. aerys would not even let me savor that one night. he honored me, and then he spat on me. the banners, brienne observed. flayed man and twin towers, see. king robb's sworn men. there, above the gatehouse, grey on white. they fly the direwolf jaime twisted his head upward for a look. that's your bloody wolf, true enough, he granted her. and those are heads to either side of it. soldiers, servants, and camp followers gathered to hoot at them. a spotted bitch followed them through the camps barking and growling until one of the lyseni impaled her on a lance and galloped to the front of the column. i am bearing kingslayer's banner, he shouted, shaking the dead dog above jaime's head. the walls of harrenhal were so thick that passing beneath them was like passing through a stone tunnel. vargo hoat had sent two of his dothraki ahead to inform lord bolton of their coming, so the outer ward was full of the curious. they gave way as jaime staggered past, the rope around his waist jerking and pulling at him whenever he slowed. i give you the kingthlayer, vargo hoat proclaimed in that thick slobbery voice of his. a spear jabbed at the small of jaime's back, sending him sprawling. instinct made him put out his hands to stop his fall. when his stump smashed against the ground the pain was blinding, yet somehow he managed to fight his way back to one knee. before him, a flight of broad stone steps led up to the entrance of one of harrenhal's colossal round towers. five knights and a northman stood looking down on him; the one pale eyed in wool and fur, the five fierce in mail and plate, with the twin towers sigil on their surcoats. a fury of freys, jaime declared. ser danwell, ser aenys, ser hosteen. he knew lord walder's sons by sight; his aunt had married one, after all. you have my condolences. for what, ser? ser danwell frey asked. your brother's son, ser cleos, said jaime. he was with us until outlaws filled him full of arrows. urswyck and this lot took his goods and left him for the wolves. my lords! brienne wrenched herself free and pushed forward. i saw your banners. hear me for your oath! who speaks? demanded ser aenys frey. lannither'th wet nurth. i am brienne of tarth, daughter to lord selwyn the evenstar, and sworn to house stark even as you are. ser aenys spit at her feet. that's for your oaths. we trusted the word of robb stark, and he repaid our faith with betrayal. now this is interesting. jaime twisted to see how brienne might take the accusation, but the wench was as singleminded as a mule with a bit between his teeth. i know of no betrayal. she chafed at the ropes around her wrists. lady catelyn commanded me to deliver lannister to his brother at king's landing - she was trying to drown him when we found them, said urswyck the faithful. she reddened. in anger i forgot myself, but i would never have killed him. if he dies the lannisters will put my lady's daughters to the sword. ser aenys was unmoved. why should that trouble us? ransom him back to riverrun, urged ser danwell. casterly rock has more gold, one brother objected. kill him! said another. his head for ned stark's! shagwell the fool somersaulted to the foot of the steps in his grey and pink motley and began to sing. there once was a lion who danced with a bear, oh my, oh my... thilenth, fool. vargo hoat cuffed the man. the kingthlayer ith not for the bear. he ith mine. he is no one's should he die. roose bolton spoke so softly that men quieted to hear him. and pray recall, my lord, you are not master of harrenhal till i march north. fever made jaime as fearless as he was lightheaded. can this be the lord of the dreadfort? when last i heard, my father had sent you scampering off with your tail betwixt your legs. when did you stop running my lord? bolton's silence was a hundred times more threatening than vargo hoat's slobbering malevolence. pale as morning mist, his eyes concealed more than they told. jaime misliked those eyes. they reminded him of the day at king's landing when ned stark had found him seated on the iron throne. the lord of the dreadfort finally pursed his lips and said, you have lost a hand. no, said jaime, i have it here, hanging round my neck. roose bolton reached down, snapped the cord, and flung the hand at hoat. take this away. the sight of it offends me. i will thend it to hith lord father. i will tell him he muth pay one hundred thouthand dragonth, or we thall return the kingthlayer to him pieth by pieth. and when we hath hith gold, we thall deliver ther jaime to karthark, and collect a maiden too! a roar of laughter went up from the brave companions. a fine plan, said roose bolton, the same way he might say, a fine wine, to a dinner companion, though lord karstark will not be giving you his daughter. king robb has shortened him by a head, for treason and murder. as to lord tywin, he remains at king's landing, and there he will stay till the new year, when his grandson takes for bride a daughter of highgarden. winterfell, said brienne. you mean winterfell. king joffrey is betrothed to sansa stark. no longer. the battle of the blackwater changed all. the rose and the lion joined there, to shatter stannis baratheon's host and burn his fleet to ashes. i warned you, urswyck, jaime thought, and you, goat. when you bet against the lions, you lose more than your purse. is there word of my sister? he asked. she is well. as is your... nephew. bolton paused before he said nephew, a pause that said i know. your brother also lives, though he took a wound in the battle. he beckoned to a dour northman in a studded brigantine. escort ser jaime to qyburn. and unbind this woman's hands. as the rope between brienne's wrists was slashed in two, he said, pray forgive us, my lady. in such troubled times it is hard to know friend from foe. brienne rubbed inside her wrist where the hemp had scraped her skin bloody. my lord, these men tried to rape me. did they? lord bolton turned his pale eyes on vargo hoat. i am displeased. by that, and this of ser jaime's hand. there were five northmen and as many freys in the yard for every brave companion. the goat might not be as clever as some, but he could count that high at least. he held his tongue. they took my sword, brienne said, my armor... you shall have no need of armor here, my lady, lord bolton told her. in harrenhal, you are under my protection. amabel, find suitable rooms for the lady brienne. walton, you will see to ser jaime at once. he did not wait for an answer, but turned and climbed the steps, his fur- trimmed cloak swirling behind. jaime had only enough time to exchange a quick look with brienne before they were marched away, separately. in the maester's chambers beneath the rookery, a grey-haired, fatherly man named qyburn sucked in his breath when he cut away the linen from the stump of jaime's hand. that bad? will i die? qyburn pushed at the wound with a finger, and wrinkled his nose at the gush of pus. no. though in a few more days... he sliced away jaime's sleeve. the corruption has spread. see how tender the flesh is? i must cut it all away. the safest course would be to take the arm off. then you'll die, jaime promised. clean the stump and sew it up. i'll take my chances. qyburn frowned. i can leave you the upper arm, make the cut at your elbow, but... take any part of my arm, and you'd best chop off the other one as well, or i'll strangle you with it afterward. qyburn looked in his eyes. whatever he saw there gave him pause. very well. i will cut away the rotten flesh, no more. try to burn out the corruption with boiling wine and a poultice of nettle, mustard seed, and bread mold. mayhaps that will suffice. it is on your head. you will want milk of the poppy - no. jaime dare not let himself be put to sleep; he might be short an arm when he woke, no matter what the man said. qyburn was taken aback. there will be pain. i'll scream. a great deal of pain. i'll scream very loudly. will you take some wine at least? does the high septon ever pray? of that i am not certain. i shall bring the wine. lie back, i must needs strap down your arm. with a bowl and a sharp blade, qyburn cleaned the stump while jaime gulped down strongwine, spilling it all over himself in the process. his left hand did not seem to know how to find his mouth, but there was something to be said for that. the smell of wine in his sodden beard helped disguise the stench of pus. nothing helped when the time came to pare away the rotten flesh. jaime did scream then, and pounded his table with his good fist, over and over and over again. he screamed again when qyburn poured boiling wine over what remained of his stump. despite all his vows and all his fears, he lost consciousness for a time. when he woke, the maester was sewing at his arm with needle and catgut. i left a flap of skin to fold back over your wrist. you have done this before, muttered jaime, weakly. he could taste blood in his mouth where he'd bitten his tongue. no man who serves with vargo hoat is a stranger to stumps. he makes them wherever he goes. qyburn did not look a monster, jaime thought. he was spare and soft-spoken, with warm brown eyes. how does a maester come to ride with the brave companions? the citadel took my chain. qyburn put away his needle. i should do something about that wound above your eye as well. the flesh is badly inflamed. jaime closed his eyes and let the wine and qyburn do their work. tell me of the battle. as keeper of harrenhal's ravens, qyburn would have been the first to hear the news. lord stannis was caught between your father and the fire. it's said the imp set the river itself aflame. jaime saw green flames reaching up into the sky higher than the tallest towers, as burning men screamed in the streets. i have dreamed this dream before. it was almost funny, but there was no one to share the joke. open your eye. qyburn soaked a cloth in warm water and dabbed at the crust of dried blood. the eyelid was swollen, but jaime found he could force it open halfway. qyburn's face loomed above. how did you come by this one? the maester asked. a wench's gift. rough wooing, my lord? this wench is bigger than me and uglier than you. you'd best see to her as well. she's still limping on the leg i pricked when we fought. i will ask after her. what is this woman to you? my protector. jaime had to laugh, no matter how it hurt. i'll grind some herbs you can mix with wine to bring down your fever. come back on the morrow and i'll put a leech on your eye to drain the bad blood. a leech. lovely. lord bolton is very fond of leeches, qyburn said primly. yes, said jaime. he would be. harrenhaps bathhouse was a dim, steamy, low-ceilinged room filled with great stone tubs. when they led jaime in, they found brienne seated in one of them, scrubbing her arm almost angrily. not so hard, wench, he called. you'll scrub the skin off. she dropped her brush and covered her teats with hands as big as gregor clegane's. the pointy little buds she was so intent on hiding would have looked more natural on some ten-year-old than they did on her thick muscular chest. what are you doing here? she demanded. lord bolton insists i sup with him, but he neglected to invite my fleas. jaime tugged at his guard with his left hand. help me out of these stinking rags. one-handed, he could not so much as unlace his breeches. the man obeyed grudgingly, but he obeyed. now leave us, jaime said when his clothes lay in a pile on the wet stone floor. my lady of tarth doesn't want the likes of you scum gaping at her teats. he pointed his stump at the hatchet-faced woman attending brienne. you too. wait without. there's only the one door, and the wench is too big to try and shinny up a chimney. the habit of obedience went deep. the woman followed his guard out, leaving the bathhouse to the two of them. the tubs were large enough to hold six or seven, after the fashion of the free cities, so jaime climbed in with the wench, awkward and slow. both his eyes were open, though the right remained somewhat swollen, despite qyburn's leeches. jaime felt a hundred and nine years old, which was a deal better than he had been feeling when he came to harrenhal. brienne shrunk away from him. there are other tubs. this one suits me well enough. gingerly, he immersed himself up to the chin in the steaming water. have no fear, wench. your thighs are purple and green, and i'm not interested in what you've got between them. he had to rest his right arm on the rim, since qyburn had warned him to keep the linen dry. he could feel the tension drain from his legs, but his head spun. if i faint, pull me out. no lannister has ever drowned in his bath and i don't mean to be the first. why should i care how you die? you swore a solemn vow. he smiled as a red flush crept up the thick white column of her neck. she turned her back to him. still the shy maiden? what is it that you think i haven't seen? he groped for the brush she had dropped, caught it with his fingers, and began to scrub himself desultorily. even that was difficult, awkward. my left hand is good for nothing. still, the water darkened as the caked dirt dissolved off his skin. the wench kept her back to him, the muscles in her great shoulders hunched and hard. does the sight of my stump distress you so? jaime asked. you ought to be pleased. i've lost the hand i killed the king with. the hand that flung the stark boy from that tower. the hand i'd slide between my sister's thighs to make her wet. he thrust his stump at her face. no wonder renly died, with you guarding him. she jerked to her feet as if he'd struck her, sending a wash of hot water across the tub. jaime caught a glimpse of the thick blonde bush at the juncture of her thighs as she climbed out. she was much hairier than his sister. absurdly, he felt his cock stir beneath the bathwater. now i know i have been too long away from cersei. he averted his eyes, troubled by his body's response. that was unworthy, he mumbled. i'm a maimed man, and bitter. forgive me, wench. you protected me as well as any man could have, and better than most. she wrapped her nakedness in a towel. do you mock me? that pricked him back to anger. are you as thick as a castle wall? that was an apology. i am tired of fighting with you. what say we make a truce? truces are built on trust. would you have me trust - the kingslayer, yes. the oathbreaker who murdered poor sad aerys targaryen. jaime snorted. it's not aerys i rue, it's robert. t hear they've named you kingslayer' he said to me at his coronation feast. 'just don't think to make it a habit.' and he laughed. why is it that no one names robert oathbreaker? he tore the realm apart, yet i am the one with shit for honor. robert did all he did for love. water ran down brienne's legs and pooled beneath her feet. robert did all he did for pride, a cunt, and a pretty face. he made a fist... or would have, if he'd had a hand. pain lanced up his arm, cruel as laughter. he rode to save the realm, she insisted. to save the realm. did you know that my brother set the blackwater rush afire? wildfire will burn on water. aerys would have bathed in it if he'd dared. the targaryens were all mad for fire. jaime felt lightheaded. it is the heat in here, the poison in my blood, the last of my fever. i am not myself. he eased himself down until the water reached his chin. soiled my white cloak... i wore my gold armor that day, but... gold armor? her voice sounded far off, faint. he floated in heat, in memory. after dancing griffins lost the battle of the bells, aerys exiled him. why am i telling this absurd ugly child? he had finally realized that robert was no mere outlaw lord to be crushed at whim, but the greatest threat house targaryen had faced since daemon blackfyre. the king reminded lewyn martell gracelessly that he held elia and sent him to take command of the ten thousand dornishmen coming up the kingsroad. jon darry and barristan selmy rode to stoney sept to rally what they could of griffins' men, and prince rhaegar returned from the south and persuaded his father to swallow his pride and summon my father. but no raven returned from casterly rock, and that made the king even more afraid. he saw traitors everywhere, and varys was always there to point out any he might have missed. so his grace commanded his alchemists to place caches of wildfire all over king's landing. beneath baelor's sept and the hovels of flea bottom, under stables and storehouses, at all seven gates, even in the cellars of the red keep itself. everything was done in the utmost secrecy by a handful of master pyromancers. they did not even trust their own acolytes to help. the queen's eyes had been closed for years, and rhaegar was busy marshaling an army. but aerys's new mace-and-dagger hand was not utterly stupid, and with rossart, belis, and garigus coming and going night and day, he became suspicious. chelsted, that was his name, lord chelsted. it had come back to him suddenly, with the telling. i'd thought the man craven, but the day he confronted aerys he found some courage somewhere. he did all he could to dissuade him. he reasoned, he jested, he threatened, and finally he begged. when that failed he took off his chain of office and flung it down on the floor. aerys burnt him alive for that, and hung his chain about the neck of rossart, his favorite pyromancer. the man who had cooked lord rickard stark in his own armor. and all the time, i stood by the foot of the iron throne in my white plate, still as a corpse, guarding my liege and all his sweet secrets. my sworn brothers were all away, you see, but aerys liked to keep me close. i was my father's son, so he did not trust me. he wanted me where varys could watch me, day and night. so i heard it all. he remembered how rossart's eyes would shine when he unrolled his maps to show where the substance must be placed. garigus and belis were the same. rhaegar met robert on the trident, and you know what happened there. when the word reached court, aerys packed the queen off to dragonstone with prince viserys. princess elia would have gone as well, but he forbade it. somehow he had gotten it in his head that prince lewyn must have betrayed rhaegar on the trident, but he thought he could keep dome loyal so long as he kept elia and aegon by his side. the traitors want my city, i heard him tell rossart, but i'll give them naught but ashes. let robert be king over charred bones and cooked meat. the targaryens never bury their dead, they burn them. aerys meant to have the greatest funeral pyre of them all. though if truth be told, i do not believe he truly expected to die. like aerion brightfire before him, aerys thought the fire would transform him... that he would rise again, reborn as a dragon, and turn all his enemies to ash. ned stark was racing south with robert's van, but my father's forces reached the city first. pycelle convinced the king that his warden of the west had come to defend him, so he opened the gates. the one time he should have heeded varys, and he ignored him. my father had held back from the war, brooding on all the wrongs aerys had done him and determined that house lannister should be on the winning side. the trident decided him. it fell to me to hold the red keep, but i knew we were lost. i sent to aerys asking his leave to make terms. my man came back with a royal command. 'bring me your father's head, if you are no traitor.' aerys would have no yielding. lord rossart was with him, my messenger said. i knew what that meant. when i came on rossart, he was dressed as a common man-at-arms, hurrying to a postern gate. i slew him first. then i slew aerys, before he could find someone else to carry his message to the pyromancers. days later, i hunted down the others and slew them as well. belis offered me gold, and garigus wept for mercy. well, a sword's more merciful than fire, but i don't think garigus much appreciated the kindness i showed him. the water had grown cool. when jaime opened his eyes, he found himself staring at the stump of his sword hand. the hand that made me kingslayer. the goat had robbed him of his glory and his shame, both at once. leaving what? who am i now? the wench looked ridiculous, clutching her towel to her meager teats with her thick white legs sticking out beneath. has my tale turned you speechless? come, curse me or kiss me or call me a liar. something. if this is true, how is it no one knows? the knights of the kingsguard are sworn to keep the king's secrets. would you have me break my oath? jaime laughed. do you think the noble lord of winterfell wanted to hear my feeble explanations? such an honorable man. he only had to look at me to judge me guilty. jaime lurched to his feet, the water running cold down his chest. by what right does the wolf judge the lion? by what right? a violent shiver took him, and he smashed his stump against the rim of the tub as he tried to climb out. pain shuddered through him... and suddenly the bathhouse was spinning. brienne caught him before he could fall. her arm was all gooseflesh, clammy and chilled, but she was strong, and gentler than he would have thought. gentler than cersei, he thought as she helped him from the tub, his legs wobbly as a limp cock. guards! he heard the wench shout. the kingslayer! jaime, he thought, my name is jaime. the next he knew, he was lying on the damp floor with the guards and the wench and qyburn all standing over him looking concerned. brienne was naked, but she seemed to have forgotten that for the moment. the heat of the tubs will do it, maester qyburn was telling them. no, he's not a maester, they took his chain. there's still poison in his blood as well, and he's malnourished. what have you been feeding him? worms and piss and grey vomit, offered jaime. hardbread and water and oat porridge, insisted the guard. he don't hardly eat it, though. what should we do with him? scrub him and dress him and carry him to kingspyre, if need be, qyburn said. lord bolton insists he will sup with him tonight. the time is growing short. bring me clean garb for him, brienne said, i'll see that he's washed and dressed. the others were all too glad to give her the task. they lifted him to his feet and sat him on a stone bench by the wall. brienne went away to retrieve her towel, and returned with a stiff brush to finish scrubbing him. one of the guards gave her a razor to trim his beard. qyburn returned with roughspun smallclothes, clean black woolen breeches, a loose green tunic, and a leather jerkin that laced up the front. jaime was feeling less dizzy by then, though no less clumsy. with the wench's help he managed to dress himself. now all i need is a silver looking glass. the bloody maester had brought fresh clothing for brienne as well; a stained pink satin gown and a linen undertunic. i am sorry, my lady. these were the only women's garments in harrenhal large enough to fit you. it was obvious at once that the gown had been cut for someone with slimmer arms, shorter legs, and much fuller breasts. the fine myrish lace did little to conceal the bruising that mottled brienne's skin. all in all, the garb made the wench look ludicrous. she has thicker shoulders than i do, and a bigger neck, jaime thought. small wonder she prefers to dress in mail. pink was not a kind color for her either. a dozen cruel japes leaped into his head, but for once he kept them there. best not to make her angry; he was no match for her one-handed. qyburn had brought a flask as well. what is it? jaime demanded when the chainless maester pressed him to drink. licorice steeped in vinegar, with honey and cloves. it will give you some strength and clear your head. bring me the potion that grows new hands, said jaime. that's the one i want. drink it, brienne said, unsmiling, and he did. it was half an hour before he felt strong enough to stand. after the dim wet warmth of the bathhouse, the air outside was a slap across the face. mtord will be looking for him by now, a guard told qyburn. her too. do i need to carry him? i can still walk. brienne, give me your arm. clutching her, jaime let them herd him across the yard to a vast draughty hall, larger even than the throne room in king's landing. huge hearths lined the walls, one every ten feet or so, more than he could count, but no fires had been lit, so the chill between the walls went bone-deep. a dozen spearmen in fur cloaks guarded the doors and the steps that led up to the two galleries above. and in the center of that immense emptiness, at a trestle table surrounded by what seemed like acres of smooth slate floor, the lord of the dreadfort waited, attended only by a cupbearer. my lord, said brienne, when they stood before him. roose bolton's eyes were paler than stone, darker than milk, and his voice was spider soft. i am pleased that you are strong enough to attend me, ser. my lady, do be seated. he gestured at the spread of cheese, bread, cold meat, and fruit that covered the table. will you drink red or white? of indifferent vintage, i fear. ser amory drained lady whent's cellars nearly dry. i trust you killed him for it. jaime slid into the offered seat quickly, so bolton could not see how weak he was. white is for starks. i'll drink red like a good lannister. i would prefer water, said brienne. elmar, the red for ser jaime, water for the lady brienne, and hippocras for myself. bolton waved a hand at their escort, dismissing them, and the men beat a silent retreat. habit made jaime reach for his wine with his right hand. his stump rocked the goblet, spattering his clean linen bandages with bright red spots and forcing him to catch the cup with his left hand before it fell, but bolton pretended not to notice his clumsiness. the northman helped himself to a prune and ate it with small sharp bites. do try these, ser jaime. they are most sweet, and help move the bowels as well. lord vargo took them from an inn before he burnt it. my bowels move fine, that goat's no lord, and your prunes don't interest me half so much as your intentions. regarding you? a faint smile touched roose bolton's lips. you are a perilous prize, ser. you sow dissension wherever you go. even here, in my happy house of harrenhal. his voice was a whisker above a whisper. and in riverrun as well, it seems. do you know, edmure tully has offered a thousand golden dragons for your recapture? is that all? my sister will pay ten times as much. will she? that smile again, there for an instant, gone as quick. ten thousand dragons is a formidable sum. of course, there is lord karstark's offer to consider as well. he promises the hand of his daughter to the man who brings him your head. leave it to your goat to get it backward, said jaime. bolton gave a soft chuckle. harrion karstark was captive here when we took the castle, did you know? i gave him all the karhold men still with me and sent him off with glover. i do hope nothing ill befell him at duskendale... else alys karstark would be all that remains of lord rickard's progeny. he chose another prune. fortunately for you, i have no need of a wife. i wed the lady walda frey whilst i was at the twins. fair walda? awkwardly, jaime tried to hold the bread with his stump while tearing it with his left hand. fat walda. my lord of frey offered me my bride's weight in silver for a dowry, so i chose accordingly. elmar, break off some bread for ser jaime. the boy tore a fist-sized chunk off one end of the loaf and handed it to jaime. brienne tore her own bread. lord bolton, she asked, it's said you mean to give harrenhal to vargo hoat. that was his price, lord bolton said. the lannisters are not the only men who pay their debts. i must take my leave soon in any case. edmure tully is to wed the lady roslin frey at the twins, and my king commands my attendance. edmure weds? said jaime. not robb stark? his grace king robb is wed. bolton spit a prune pit into his hand and put it aside. to a westerling of the crag. i am told her name is jeyne. no doubt you know her, ser. her father is your father's bannerman. my father has a good many bannermen, and most of them have daughters. jaime groped one- handed for his goblet, trying to recall this jeyne. the westerlings were an old house, with more pride than power. this cannot be true, brienne said stubbornly. king robb was sworn to wed a frey. he would never break faith, he - his grace is a boy of sixteen, said roose bolton mildly. and i would thank you not to question my word, my lady. jaime felt almost sorry for robb stark. he won the war on the battlefield and lost it in a bedchamber, poor fool. how does lord walder relish dining on trout in place of wolf? he asked. oh, trout makes for a tasty supper. bolton lifted a pale finger toward his cupbearer. though my poor elmar is bereft. he was to wed arya stark, but my good father of frey had no choice but to break the betrothal when king robb betrayed him. is there word of arya stark? brienne leaned forward. lady catelyn had feared that... is the girl still alive? oh, yes, said the lord of the dreadfort. you have certain knowledge of that, my lord? roose bolton shrugged. arya stark was lost for a time, it was true, but now she has been found. i mean to see her returned safely to the north. her and her sister both, said brienne. tyrion lannister has promised us both girls for his brother. that seemed to amuse the lord of the dreadfort. my lady, has no one told you? lannisters lie. is that a slight on the honor of my house? jaime picked up the cheese knife with his good hand. a rounded point, and dull, he said, sliding his thumb along the edge of the blade, but it will go through your eye all the same. sweat beaded his brow. he could only hope he did not look as feeble as he felt. lord bolton's little smile paid another visit to his lips. you speak boldly for a man who needs help to break his bread. my guards are all around us, i remind you. all around us, and half a league away. jaime glanced down the vast length of the hall. by the time they reach us, you'll be as dead as aerys.  'tis scarcely chivalrous to threaten your host over his own cheese and olives, the lord of the dreadfort scolded. in the north, we hold the laws of hospitality sacred still. i'm a captive here, not a guest. your goat cut off my hand, if you think some prunes will make me overlook that, you're bloody well mistaken. that took roose bolton aback. perhaps i am. perhaps i ought to make a wedding gift of you to edmure tully... or strike your head off, as your sister did for eddard stark. i would not advise it. casterly rock has a long memory. a thousand leagues of mountain, sea, and bog lie between my walls and your rock. lannister enmity means little to bolton. lannister friendship could mean much. jaime thought he knew the game they were playing now. but does the wench know as well? he dare not look to see. i am not certain you are the sort of friends a wise man would want. roose bolton beckoned to the boy. elmar, carve our guests a slice off the roast. brienne was served first, but made no move to eat. my lord, she said, ser jaime is to be exchanged for lady catelyn's daughters. you must free us to continue on our way. the raven that came from riverrun told of an escape, not an exchange. and if you helped this captive slip his bonds, you are guilty of treason, my lady. the big wench rose to her feet. i serve lady stark. and i the king in the north. or the king who lost the north, as some now call him. who never wished to trade ser jaime back to the lannisters. sit down and eat, brienne, jaime urged, as elmar placed a slice of roast before him, dark and bloody. if bolton meant to kill us, he wouldn't be wasting his precious prunes on us, at such peril to his bowels. he stared at the meat and realized there was no way to cut it, one-handed. i am worth less than a girl now, he thought. the goat's evened the trade, though i doubt lady catelyn will thank him when cersei returns her whelps in like condition. the thought made him grimace. i will get the blame for that as well, i'll wager. roose bolton cut his meat methodically, the blood running across his plate. lady brienne, will you sit if i tell you that i hope to send ser jaime on, just as you and lady stark desire? i... you'd send us on? the wench sounded wary, but she sat. that is good, my lord. it is. however, lord vargo has created me one small... difficulty. he turned his pale eyes on jaime. do you know why hoat cut off your hand? he enjoys cutting off hands. the linen that covered jaime's stump was spotted with blood and wine. he enjoys cutting off feet as well. he doesn't seem to need a reason. nonetheless, he had one. hoat is more cunning than he appears. no man commands a company such as the brave companions for long unless he has some wits about him. bolton stabbed a chunk of meat with the point of his dagger, put it in his mouth, chewed thoughtfully, swallowed. lord vargo abandoned house lannister because i offered him harrenhal, a reward a thousand times greater than any he could hope to have from lord tywin. as a stranger to westeros, he did not know the prize was poisoned. the curse of harren the black? mocked jaime. the curse of tywin lannister. bolton held out his goblet and elmar refilled it silently. our goat should have consulted the tarbecks or the reynes. they might have warned him how your lord father deals with betrayal. there are no tarbecks or reynes, said jaime. my point precisely. lord vargo doubtless hoped that lord stannis would triumph at king's landing, and thence confirm him in his possession of this castle in gratitude for his small part in the downfall of house lannister. he gave a dry chuckle. he knows little of stannis baratheon either, i fear. that one might have given him harrenhal for his service... but he would have given him a noose for his crimes as well. a noose is kinder than what he'll get from my father. by now he has come to the same realization. with stannis broken and renly dead, only a stark victory can save him from lord tywin's vengeance, but the chances of that grow perishingly slim. king robb has won every battle, brienne said stoutly, as stubbornly loyal of speech as she was of deed. won every battle, while losing the freys, the karstarks, winterfell, and the north. a pity the wolf is so young. boys of sixteen always believe they are immortal and invincible. an older man would bend the knee, i'd think. after a war there is always a peace, and with peace there are pardons... for the robb starks, at least. not for the likes of vargo hoat. bolton gave him a small smile. both sides have made use of him, but neither will shed a tear at his passing. the brave companions did not fight in the battle of the blackwater, yet they died there all the same. you'll forgive me if i don't mourn? you have no pity for our wretched doomed goat? ah, but the gods must... else why deliver you into his hands? bolton chewed another chunk of meat. karhold is smaller and meaner than harrenhal, but it lies well beyond the reach of the lion's claws. once wed to alys karstark, hoat might be a lord in truth. if he could collect some gold from your father so much the better, but he would have delivered you to lord rickard no matter how much lord tywin paid. his price would be the maid, and safe refuge. but to sell you he must keep you, and the riverlands are full of those who would gladly steal you away. glover and tallhart were broken at duskendale, but remnants of their host are still abroad, with the mountain slaughtering the stragglers. a thousand karstarks prowl the lands south and east of riverrun, hunting you. elsewhere are darry men left lordless and lawless, packs of four-footed wolves, and the lightning lord's outlaw bands. dondarrion would gladly hang you and the goat together from the same tree. the lord of the dreadfort sopped up some of the blood with a chunk of bread. harrenhal was the only place lord vargo could hope to hold you safe, but here his brave companions are much outnumbered by my own men, and by ser aenys and his freys. no doubt he feared i might return you to ser edmure at riverrun... or worse, send you on to your father. by maiming you, he meant to remove your sword as a threat, gain himself a grisly token to send to your father, and diminish your value to me. for he is my man, as i am king robb's man. thus his crime is mine, or may seem so in your father's eyes. and therein lies my... small difficulty. he gazed at jaime, his pale eyes unblinking, expectant, chill. i see. you want me to absolve you of blame. to tell my father that this stump is no work of yours. jaime laughed. my lord, send me to cersei, and i'll sing as sweet a song as you could want, of how gently you treated me. any other answer, he knew, and bolton would give him back to the goat. had i a hand, i'd write it out. how i was maimed by the sellsword my own father brought to westeros, and saved by the noble lord bolton. i will trust to your word, ser. there's something i don't often hear. how soon might we be permitted to leave? and how do you mean to get me past all these wolves and brigands and karstarks? you will leave when qyburn says you are strong enough, with a strong escort of picked men under the command of my captain, walton. steelshanks, he is called. a soldier of iron loyalty. walton will see you safe and whole to king's landing. provided lady catelyn's daughters are delivered safe and whole as well, said the wench. my lord, your man walton's protection is welcome, but the girls are my charge. the lord of the dreadfort gave her an uninterested glance. the girls need not concern you any further, my lady. the lady sansa is the dwarfs wife, only the gods can part them now. his wife? brienne said, appalled. the imp? but... he swore, before the whole court, in sight of gods and men... she is such an innocent. jaime was almost as surprised, if truth be told, but he hid it better. sansa stark, that ought to put a smile on tyrion's face. he remembered how happy his brother had been with his little crofter's daughter... for a fortnight. what the imp did or did nor swear scarcely matters now, said lord bolton. least of all to you. the wench looked almost wounded. perhaps she finally felt the steel jaws of the trap when roose bolton beckoned to his guards. ser jaime will continue on to king's landing. i said nothing about you, i fear. it would be unconscionable of me to deprive lord vargo of both his prizes. the lord of the dreadfort reached out to pick another prune. were i you, my lady, i should worry less about starks and rather more about sapphires. though his fever lingered stubbornly, the stump was healing clean, and qyburn said his arm was no longer in danger. jaime was anxious to be gone, to put harrenhal, the bloody mummers, and brienne of tarth all behind him. a real woman waited for him in the red keep. i am sending qyburn with you, to look after you on the way to king's landing, roose bolton said on the mom of their departure. he has a fond hope that your father will force the citadel to give him back his chain, in gratitude. we all have fond hopes. if he grows me back a hand, my father will make him grand maester. steelshanks walton commanded jaime's escort; blunt, brusque, brutal, at heart a simple soldier. jaime had served with his sort all his life. men like walton would kill at their lord's command, rape when their blood was up after battle, and plunder wherever they could, but once the war was done they would go back to their homes, trade their spears for hoes, wed their neighbors' daughters, and raise a pack of squalling children. such men obeyed without question, but the deep malignant cruelty of the brave companions was not a part of their nature. both parties left harrenhal the same morning, beneath a cold grey sky that promised rain. ser aenys frey had marched three days before, striking northeast for the kingsroad. bolton meant to follow him. the trident is in flood, he told jaime. even at the ruby ford, the crossing will be difficult. you will give my warm regards to your father? so long as you give mine to robb stark. that i shall. some brave companions had gathered in the yard to watch them leave. jaime trotted over to where they stood. zollo. how kind of you to see me off. pyg. timeon. will you miss me? no last jest to share, shagwell? to lighten my way down the road? and rorge, did you come to kiss me goodbye? bugger off, cripple, said rorge. if you insist. rest assured, though, i will be back. a lannister always pays his debts. jaime wheeled his horse around and rejoined steelshanks walton and his two hundred. lord bolton had accoutered him as a knight, preferring to ignore the missing hand that made such warlike garb a travesty. jaime rode with sword and dagger on his belt, shield and helm hung from his saddle, chainmail under a dark brown surcoat. he was not such a fool as to show the lion of lannister on his arms, though, nor the plain white blazon that was his right as a sworn brother of the kingsguard. he found an old shield in the armory, battered and splintered, the chipped paint still showing most of the great black bat of house lothston upon a field of silver and gold. the lothstons held harrenhal before the whents and had been a powerful family in their day, but they had died out ages ago, so no one was likely to object to him bearing their arms. he would be no one's cousin, no one's enemy, no one's sworn sword... in sum, no one. they left through harrenhal' s smaller eastern gate, and took their leave of roose bolton and his host six miles farther on, turning south to follow along the lake road for a time. walton meant to avoid the kingsroad as long as he could, preferring the farmer's tracks and game trails near the gods eye. the kingsroad would be faster. jaime was anxious to return to cersei as quickly as he could, if they made haste, he might even arrive in time for joffrey's wedding. i want no trouble, said steelshanks. gods know who we'd meet along that kingsroad. no one you need fear, surely? you have two hundred men. aye. but others might have more. mtord said to bring you safe to your lord father, and that's what i mean to do. i have come this way before, jaime reflected a few miles further on, when they passed a deserted mill beside the lake. weeds now grew where once the miller's daughter had smiled shyly at him, and the miller himself had shouted out, the tourney's back the other way, ser. as if i had not known. king aerys made a great show of jaime's investiture. he said his vows before the king's pavilion, kneeling on the green grass in white armor while half the realm looked on. when ser gerold hightower raised him up and put the white cloak about his shoulders, a roar went up that jaime still remembered, all these years later. but that very night aerys had turned sour, declaring that he had no need of seven kingsguard here at harrenhal. jaime was commanded to return to king's landing to guard the queen and little prince viserys, who'd remained behind. even when the white bull offered to take that duty himself, so jaime might compete in lord whent's tourney, aerys had refused. he'll win no glory here, the king had said. he's mine now, not tywin's. he'll serve as i see fit. i am the king. i rule, and he'll obey. that was the first time that jaime understood. it was not his skill with sword and lance that had won him his white cloak, nor any feats of valor he'd performed against the kingswood brotherhood. aerys had chosen him to spite his father, to rob lord tywin of his heir. even now, all these years later, the thought was bitter. and that day, as he'd ridden south in his new white cloak to guard an empty castle, it had been almost too much to stomach. he would have ripped the cloak off then and there if he could have, but it was too late. he had said the words whilst half the realm looked on, and a kingsguard served for life. qyburn fell in beside him. is your hand troubling you? the lack of my hand is troubling me. the mornings were the hardest. in his dreams jaime was a whole man, and each dawn he would lie half- awake and feel his fingers move. it was a nightmare, some part of him would whisper, refusing to believe even now, only a nightmare. but then he would open his eyes. i understand you had a visitor last night, said qyburn. i trust that you enjoyed her? jaime gave him a cool look. she did not say who sent her. the maester smiled modestly. your fever was largely gone, and i thought you might enjoy a bit of exercise. pia is quite skilled, would you not agree? and so... willing. she had been that, certainly. she had slipped in his door and out of her clothes so quickly that jaime had thought he was still dreaming. it hadn't been until the woman slid in under his blankets and put his good hand on her breast that he roused. she was a pretty little thing, too. i was a slip of a girl when you came for lord whent's tourney and the king gave you your cloak, she confessed. you were so handsome all in white, and everyone said what a brave knight you were. sometimes when i'm with some man, i close my eyes and pretend it's you on top of me, with your smooth skin and gold curls. i never truly thought i'd have you, though. sending her away had not been easy after that, but jaime had done it all the same. i have a woman, he reminded himself. do you send girls to everyone you leech? he asked qyburn. more often lord vargo sends them to me. he likes me to examine them, before... well, suffice it to say that once he loved unwisely, and he has no wish to do so again. but have no fear, pia is quite healthy. as is your maid of tarth. jaime gave him a sharp look. brienne? yes. a strong girl, that one. and her maidenhead is still intact. as of last night, at least. qyburn gave a chuckle. he sent you to examine her? to be sure. he is... fastidious, shall we say? does this concern the ransom? jaime asked. does her father require proof she is still maiden? you have not heard? qyburn gave a shrug. we had a bird from lord selwyn. in answer to mine. the evenstar offers three hundred dragons for his daughter's safe return. i had told lord vargo there were no sapphires on tarth, but he will not listen. he is convinced the evenstar intends to cheat him. three hundred dragons is a fair ransom for a knight. the goat should take what he can get. the goat is lord of harrenhal, and the lord of harrenhal does not haggle. the news irritated him, though he supposed he should have seen it coming. the lie spared you awhile, wench. be grateful for that much. if her maidenhead's as hard as the rest of her, the goat will break his cock off trying to get in, he jested. brienne was tough enough to survive a few rapes, jaime judged, though if she resisted too vigorously vargo hoat might start lopping off her hands and feet. and if he does, why should i care? i might still have a hand if she had let me have my cousin's sword without getting stupid. he had almost taken off her leg himself with that first stroke of his, but after that she had given him more than he wanted. hoat may not know how freakish strong she is. he had best be careful, or she'll snap that skinny neck of his, and wouldn't that be sweet? qyburn' s companionship was wearing on him. jaime trotted toward the head of the column. a round little tick of a northman name of nage went before steelshanks with the peace banner; a rainbow-striped flag with seven long tails, on a staff topped by a seven-pointed star. shouldn't you northmen have a different sort of peace banner? he asked walton. what are the seven to you? southron gods, the man said, but it's a southron peace we need, to get you safe to your father. my father. jaime wondered whether lord tywin had received the goat's demand for ransom, with or without his rotted hand. what is a swordsman worth without his sword hand? half the gold in casterly rock? three hundred dragons? or nothing? his father had never been unduly swayed by sentiment. tywin lannister's own father lord tytos had once imprisoned an unruly bannerman, lord tarbeck. the redoubtable lady tarbeck responded by capturing three lannisters, including young stafford, whose sister was betrothed to cousin tywin. send back my lord and love, or these three shall answer for any harm that comes him, she had written to casterly rock. young tywin suggested his father oblige by sending back lord tarbeck in three pieces. lord tytos was a gentler sort of lion, however, so lady tarbeck won a few more years for her muttonheaded lord, and stafford wed and bred and blundered on till oxcross. but tywin lannister endured, eternal as casterly rock. and now you have a cripple for a son as well as a dwarf, my lord. how you will hate that... the road led them through a burned village. it must have been a year or more since the place had been put to torch. the hovels stood blackened and roofless, but weeds were growing waist high in all the surrounding fields. steelshanks called a halt to allow them to water the horses. i know this place too, jaime thought as he waited by the well. there had been a small inn where only a few foundation stones and a chimney now stood, and he had gone in for a cup of ale. a dark-eyed serving wench brought him cheese and apples, but the innkeep had refused his coin. it's an honor to have a knight of the kingsguard under my roof, ser, the man had said. it's a tale i'll tell my grandchildren. jaime looked at the chimney poking out of the weeds and wondered whether he had ever gotten those grandchildren. did he tell them the kingslayer once drank his ale and ate his cheese and apples, or was he ashamed to admit he fed the likes of me? not that he would ever know; whoever burned the inn had likely killed the grandchildren as well. he could feel his phantom fingers clench. when steelshanks said that perhaps they should have a fire and a bit of food, jaime shook his head. i mislike this place. we'll ride on. by evenfall they had left the lake to follow a rutted track through a wood of oak and elm. jaime's stump was throbbing dully when steelshanks decided to make camp. qyburn had brought a skin of dreamwine, thankfully. while walton set the watches, jaime stretched out near the fire and propped a rolled-up bearskin against a stump as a pillow for his head. the wench would have told him he had to eat before he slept, to keep his strength up, but he was more tired than hungry. he closed his eyes, and hoped to dream of cersei. the fever dreams were all so vivid... naked and alone he stood, surrounded by enemies, with stone walls all around him pressing close. the rock, he knew. he could feel the immense weight of it above his head. he was home. he was home and whole. he held his right hand up and flexed his fingers to feel the strength in them, it felt as good as sex. as good as swordplay. four fingers and a thumb. he had dreamed that he was maimed, but it wasn't so. relief made him dizzy. my hand, my good hand. nothing could hurt him so long as he was whole. around him stood a dozen tall dark figures in cowled robes that hid their faces. in their hands were spears. who are you? he demanded of them. what business do you have in casterly rock? they gave no answer, only prodded him with the points of their spears. he had no choice but to descend. down a twisting passageway he went, narrow steps carved from the living rock, down and down. i must go up, he told himself. up, not down. why am i going down? below the earth his doom awaited, he knew with the certainty of dream; something dark and terrible lurked there, something that wanted him. jaime tried to halt, but their spears prodded him on. if only i had my sword, nothing could harm me. the steps ended abruptly on echoing darkness. jaime had the sense of vast space before him. he jerked to a halt, teetering on the edge of nothingness. a spearpoint jabbed at the small of the back, shoving him into the abyss. he shouted, but the fall was short. he landed on his hands and knees, upon soft sand and shallow water. there were watery caverns deep below casterly rock, but this one was strange to him. what place is this? your place. the voice echoed; it was a hundred voices, a thousand, the voices of all the lannisters since lann the clever, who'd lived at the dawn of days. but most of all it was his father's voice, and beside lord tywin stood his sister, pale and beautiful, a torch burning in her hand. joffrey was there as well, the son they'd made together, and behind them a dozen more dark shapes with golden hair. sister, why has father brought us here? us? this is your place, brother. this is your darkness. her torch was the only light in the cavern. her torch was the only light in the world. she turned to go. stay with me, jaime pleaded. don't leave me here alone. but they were leaving. don't leave me in the dark! something terrible lived down here. give me a sword, at least. i gave you a sword, lord tywin said. it was at his feet. jaime groped under the water until his hand closed upon the hilt. nothing can hurt me so long as i have a sword. as he raised the sword a finger of pale flame flickered at the point and crept up along the edge, stopping a hand's breath from the hilt. the fire took on the color of the steel itself so it burned with a silvery-blue light, and the gloom pulled back. crouching, listening, jaime moved in a circle, ready for anything that might come out of the darkness. the water flowed into his boots, ankle deep and bitterly cold. beware the water, he told himself. there may be creatures living in it, hidden deeps... from behind came a great splash. jaime whirled toward the sound... but the faint light revealed only brienne of tarth, her hands bound in heavy chains. i swore to keep you safe, the wench said stubbornly. i swore an oath. naked, she raised her hands to jaime. ser. please. if you would be so good. the steel links parted like silk. a sword, brienne begged, and there it was, scabbard, belt, and all. she buckled it around her thick waist. the light was so dim that jaime could scarcely see her, though they stood a scant few feet apart. in this light she could almost be a beauty, he thought, in this light she could almost be a knight. brienne's sword took flame as well, burning silvery blue. the darkness retreated a little more. the flames will burn so long as you live, he heard cersei call. when they die, so must you. sister! he shouted. stay with me. stay! there was no reply but the soft sound of retreating footsteps. brienne moved her longsword back and forth, watching the silvery flames shift and shimmer. beneath her feet, a reflection of the burning blade shone on the surface of the flat black water. she was as tall and strong as he remembered, yet it seemed to jaime that she had more of a woman's shape now. do they keep a bear down here? brienne was moving, slow and wary, sword to hand; step, turn, and listen. each step made a little splash. a cave lion? direwolves? some bear? tell me, jaime. what lives here? what lives in the darkness? doom. no bear, he knew. no lion. only doom. in the cool silvery-blue light of the swords, the big wench looked pale and fierce. i mislike this place. i'm not fond of it myself. their blades made a little island of light, but all around them stretched a sea of darkness, unending. my feet are wet. we could go back the way they brought us. if you climbed on my shoulders you'd have no trouble reaching that tunnel mouth. then i could follow cersei. he could feel himself growing hard at the thought, and turned away so brienne would not see. listen. she put a hand on his shoulder, and he trembled at the sudden touch. she's warm. something comes. brienne lifted her sword to point off to his left. there, he peered into the gloom until he saw it too. something was moving through the darkness, he could not quite make it out... a man on a horse. no, two. two riders, side by side. down here, beneath the rock? it made no sense. yet there came two riders on pale horses, men and mounts both armored. the destriers emerged from the blackness at a slow walk. they make no sound, jaime realized. no splashing, no clink of mail nor clop of hoof. he remembered eddard stark, riding the length of aerys's throne room wrapped in silence. only his eyes had spoken; a lord's eyes, cold and grey and full of judgment. is it you, stark? jaime called. come ahead. i never feared you living, i do not fear you dead. brienne touched his arm. there are more. he saw them too. they were armored all in snow, it seemed to him, and ribbons of mist swirled back from their shoulders. the visors of their helms were closed, but jaime lannister did not need to look upon their faces to know them. five had been his brothers. oswell whent and jon darry. lewyn martell, a prince of dome. the white bull, gerold hightower. ser arthur dayne, sword of the morning. and beside them, crowned in mist and grief with his long hair streaming behind him, rode rhaegar targaryen, prince of dragonstone and rightful heir to the iron throne. you don't frighten me, he called, turning as they split to either side of him. he did not know which way to face. i will fight you one by one or all together. but who is there for the wench to duel? she gets cross when you leave her out. i swore an oath to keep him safe, she said to rhaegar's shade. i swore a holy oath. we all swore oaths, said ser arthur dayne, so sadly. the shades dismounted from their ghostly horses. when they drew their longswords, it made not a sound. he was going to burn the city, jaime said. to leave robert only ashes. he was your king, said darry. you swore to keep him safe, said whent. and the children, them as well, said prince lewyn. prince rhaegar burned with a cold light, now white, now red, now dark. i left my wife and children in your hands. i never thought he'd hurt them. jaime's sword was burning less brightly now. i was with the king... killing the king, said ser arthur. cutting his throat, said prince lewyn. the king you had sworn to die for, said the white bull. the fires that ran along the blade were guttering out, and jaime remembered what cersei had said. no. terror closed a hand about his throat. then his sword went dark, and only brienne's burned, as the ghosts came rushing in. no, he said, no, no, no. nooooooooo! heart pounding, he jerked awake, and found himself in starry darkness amidst a grove of trees. he could taste bile in his mouth, and he was shivering with sweat, hot and cold at once. when he looked down for his sword hand, his wrist ended in leather and linen, wrapped snug around an ugly stump. he felt sudden tears well up in his eyes. i felt it, i felt the strength in my fingers, and the rough leather of the sword's grip. my hand... my lord. qyburn knelt beside him, his fatherly face all crinkly with concern. what is it? i heard you cry out. steelshanks walton stood above them, tall and dour. what is it? why did you scream? a dream... only a dream. jaime stared at the camp around him, lost for a moment. i was in the dark, but i had my hand back. he looked at the stump and felt sick all over again. there's no place like that beneath the rock, he thought. his stomach was sour and empty, and his head was pounding where he'd pillowed it against the stump. qyburn felt his brow. you still have a touch of fever. a fever dream. jaime reached up. help me. steelshanks took him by his good hand and pulled him to his feet. another cup of dreamwine? asked qyburn. no. i've dreamt enough this night. he wondered how long it was till dawn. somehow he knew that if he closed his eyes, he would be back in that dark wet place again. milk of the poppy, then? and something for your fever? you are still weak, my lord. you need to sleep. to rest. that is the last thing i mean to do. the moonlight glimmered pale upon the stump where jaime had rested his head. the moss covered it so thickly he had not noticed before, but now he saw that the wood was white. it made him think of winterfell, and ned stark's heart tree. it was not him, he thought. it was never him. but the stump was dead and so was stark and so were all the others, prince rhaegar and ser arthur and the children. and aerys. aerys is most dead of all. do you believe in ghosts, maester? he asked qyburn. the man's face grew strange. once, at the citadel, i came into an empty room and saw an empty chair. yet i knew a woman had been there, only a moment before. the cushion was dented where she'd sat, the cloth was still warm, and her scent lingered in the air. if we leave our smells behind us when we leave a room, surely something of our souls must remain when we leave this life? qyburn spread his hands. the archmaesters did not like my thinking, though. well, marwyn did, but he was the only one. jaime ran his fingers through his hair. walton, he said, saddle the horses. i want to go back. back? steelshanks regarded him dubiously. he thinks i've gone mad. and perhaps i have. i left something at harrenhal. lord vargo holds it now. him and his bloody mummers. you have twice the men he does. if i don't serve you up to your father as commanded, lord bolton will have my hide. we press onto king's landing. once jaime might have countered with a smile and a threat, but onehanded cripples do not inspire much fear. he wondered what his brother would do. tyrion would find a way. lannisters lie, steelshanks. didn't lord bolton tell you that? the man frowned suspiciously. what if he did? unless you take me back to harrenhal, the song i sing my father may not be one the lord of the dreadfort would wish to hear. i might even say it was bolton ordered my hand cut off, and steelshanks walton who swung the blade. walton gaped at him. that isn't so. no, but who will my father believe? jaime made himself smile, the way he used to smile when nothing in the world could frighten him. it will be so much easier if we just go back. we'd be on our way again soon enough, and i'd sing such a sweet song in king's landing you'll never believe your ears. you'd get the girl, and a nice fat purse of gold as thanks. gold? walton liked that well enough. how much gold? i have him. why, how much would you want? and by the time the sun came up, they were halfway back to harrenhal. jaime pushed his horse much harder than he had the day before, and steelshanks and the northmen were forced to match his pace. even so, it was midday before they reached the castle on the lake. beneath a darkening sky that threatened rain, the immense walls and five great towers stood black and ominous. it looks so dead. the walls were empty, the gates closed and barred. but high above the barbican, a single banner hung limp. the black goat of qohor, he knew. jaime cupped his hands to shout. you in there! open your gates, or i'll kick them down! it was not until qyburn and steelshanks added their voices that a head finally appeared on the battlements above them. he goggled down at them, then vanished. a short time later, they heard the portcullis being drawn upward. the gates swung open, and jaime lannister spurred his horse through the walls, scarcely glancing at the murder holes as he passed beneath them. he had been worried that the goat might not admit them, but it seemed as if the brave companions still thought of them as allies. fools. the outer ward was deserted; only the long slate-roofed stables showed any signs of life, and it was not horses that interested jaime just then. he reined up and looked about. he could hear sounds from somewhere behind the tower of ghosts, and men shouting in half a dozen tongues. steelshanks and qyburn rode up on either side. get what you came back for, and we'll be gone again, said walton. i want no trouble with the mummers. tell your men to keep their hands on their sword hilts, and the mummers will want no trouble with you. two to one, remember? jaime's head jerked round at the sound of a distant roar, faint but ferocious. it echoed off the walls of harrenhal, and the laughter swelled up like the sea. all of a sudden, he knew what was happening. have we come too late? his stomach did a lurch, and he slammed his spurs into his horse, galloping across the outer ward, beneath an arched stone bridge, around the wailing tower, and through the flowstone yard. they had her in the bear pit. king harren the black had wished to do even his bear-baiting in lavish style. the pit was ten yards across and five yards deep, walled in stone, floored with sand, and encircled by six tiers of marble benches. the brave companions filled only a quarter of the seats, jaime saw as he swung down clumsily from his horse. the sellswords were so fixed on the spectacle beneath that only those across the pit noticed their arrival. brienne wore the same ill-fitting gown she'd worn to supper with roose bolton. no shield, no breastplate, no chainmail, not even boiled leather, only pink satin and myrish lace. maybe the goat thought she was more amusing when dressed as a woman. half her gown was hanging off in tatters, and her left arm dripped blood where the bear had raked her. at least they gave her a sword. the wench held it one-handed, moving sideways, trying to put some distance between her and the bear. that's no good, the ring's too small. she needed to attack, to make a quick end to it. good steel was a match for any bear. but the wench seemed afraid to close. the mummers showered her with insults and obscene suggestions. this is none of our concern, steelshanks warned jaime. lord bolton said the wench was theirs, to do with as they liked. her name's brienne. jaime descended the steps, past a dozen startled sellswords. vargo hoat had taken the lord's box in the lowest tier. lord vargo, he called over the shouts. the qohorik almost spilt his wine. kingthlayer? the left side of his face was bandaged clumsily, the linen over his ear spotted with blood. pull her out of there. thay out of thith, kingthlayer, unleth you'd like another thump. he waved a wine cup. your thee-mooth bit oth my ear. thmall wonder her father will not ranthom thuch a freak. a roar turned jaime back around. the bear was eight feet tall. gregor clegane with a pelt, he thought, though likely smarter. the beast did not have the reach the mountain had with that monster greatsword of his, though. bellowing in fury, the bear showed a mouth full of great yellow teeth, then fell back to all fours and went straight at brienne. there's your chance, jaime thought. strike! now! instead, she poked out ineffectually with the point of her blade. the bear recoiled, then came on, rumbling. brienne slid to her left and poked again at the bear's face. this time he lifted a paw to swat the sword aside. he's wary, jaime realized. he's gone up against other men. he knows swords and spears can hurt him. but that won't keep him off her long. kill him! he shouted, but his voice was lost amongst all the other shouts. if brienne heard, she gave no sign. she moved around the pit, keeping the wall at her back. too close. if the bear pins her by the wall... the beast turned clumsily, too far and too fast. quick as a cat, brienne changed direction. there's the wench i remember. she leapt in to land a cut across the bear's back. roaring, the beast went up on his hind legs again. brienne scrambled back away. where's the blood? then suddenly he understood. jaime rounded on hoat. you gave her a tourney sword. the goat brayed laughter, spraying him with wine and spittle, of courth. i'll pay her bloody ransom. gold, sapphires, whatever you want. pull her out of there. you want her? go get her. so he did. he put his good hand on the marble rail and vaulted over, rolling as he hit the sand. the bear turned at the thump, sniffing, watching this new intruder warily. jaime scrambled to one knee. well, what in seven hells do i do now? he filled his fist with sand. kingslayer? he heard brienne say, astonished. jaime. he uncoiled, flinging the sand at the bear's face. the bear mauled the air and roared like blazes. what are you doing here? something stupid. get behind me. he circled toward her, putting himself between brienne and the bear. you get behind. i have the sword. a swordwith no point and no edge. get behind me! he saw something half-buried in the sand, and snatched it up with his good hand. it proved to be a human jawbone, with some greenish flesh still clinging to it, crawling with maggots. charming, he thought, wondering whose face he held. the bear was edging closer, so jaime whipped his arm around and flung bone, meat, and maggots at the beast's head. he missed by a good yard. i ought to lop my left hand off as well, for all the good it does me. brienne tried to dart around, but he kicked her legs out from under her. she fell in the sand, clutching the useless sword. jaime straddled her, and the bear came charging. there was a deep twang, and a feathered shaft sprouted suddenly beneath the beast's left eye. blood and slaver ran from his open mouth, and another bolt took him in the leg. the bear roared, reared. he saw jaime and brienne again and lumbered toward them. more crossbows fired, the quarrels ripping through fur and flesh. at such short range, the bowmen could hardly miss. the shafts hit as hard as maces, but the bear took another step. the poor dumb brave brute. when the beast swiped at him, he danced aside, shouting, kicking sand. the bear turned to follow his tormentor, and took another two quarrels in the back. he gave one last rumbling growl, settled back onto his haunches, stretched out on the bloodstained sand, and died. brienne got back to her knees, clutching the sword and breathing short ragged breaths. steelshanks's archers were winding their crossbows and reloading while the bloody mummers shouted curses and threats at them. rorge and three toes had swords out, jaime saw, and zollo was uncoiling his whip. you thlew my bear! vargo hoat shrieked. and i'll serve you the same if you give me trouble, steelshanks threw back. we're taking the wench. her name is brienne, jaime said. brienne, the maid of tarth. you are still maiden, i hope? her broad homely face turned red. yes. oh, good, jaime said. i only rescue maidens. to hoat he said, you'll have your ransom. for both of us. a lannister pays his debts. now fetch some ropes and get us out of here. bugger that, rorge growled. kill them, hoat. or you'll bloody well wish you had! the qohorik hesitated. half his men were drunk, the northmen stone sober, and there were twice as many. some of the crossbowmen had reloaded by now. pull them out, hoat said, and then, to jaime, i hath chothen to be merthiful. tell your lord father. i will, my lord. not that it will do you any good. not until they were half a league from harrenhal and out of range of archers on the walls did steelshanks walton let his anger show. are you mad, kingslayer? did you mean to die? no man can fight a bear with his bare hands! one bare hand and one bare stump, jaime corrected. but i hoped you'd kill the beast before the beast killed me. elsewise, lord bolton would have peeled you like an orange, no? steelshanks cursed him roundly for a fool of lannister, spurred his horse, and galloped away up the column. ser jaime? even in soiled pink satin and torn lace, brienne looked more like a man in a gown than a proper woman. i am grateful, but... you were well away. why come back? a dozen quips came to mind, each crueler than the one before, but jaime only shrugged. i dreamed of you, he said. the king is dead, they told him, never knowing that joffrey was his son as well as his sovereign. the imp opened his throat with a dagger, a costermonger declared at the roadside inn where they spent the night. he drank his blood from a big gold chalice. the man did not recognize the bearded one-handed knight with the big bat on his shield, no more than any of them, so he said things he might otherwise have swallowed, had he known who was listening. it was poison did the deed, the innkeep insisted. the boy's face turned black as a plum. may the father judge him justly, murmured a septon. the dwarfs wife did the murder with him, swore an archer in lord rowan's livery. afterward, she vanished from the hall in a puff of brimstone, and a ghostly direwolf was seen prowling the red keep, blood dripping from his jaws. jaime sat silent through it all, letting the words wash over him, a horn of ale forgotten in his one good hand. joffrey. my blood. my firstborn. my son. he tried to bring the boy's face to mind, but his features kept turning into cersei's. she will be in mourning, her hair in disarray and her eyes red from crying, her mouth trembling as she tries to speak. she will cry again when she sees me, though she'll fight the tears. his sister seldom wept but when she was with him. she could not stand for others to think her weak. only to her twin did she show her wounds. she will look to me for comfort and revenge. they rode hard the next day, at jaime's insistence. his son was dead, and his sister needed him. when he saw the city before him, its watchtowers dark against the gathering dusk, jaime lannister cantered up to steelshanks walton, behind nage with the peace banner. what's that awful stink? the northman complained. death, thought jaime, but he said, smoke, sweat, and shit. king's landing, in short. if you have a good nose you can smell the treachery too. you've never smelled a city before? i smelled white harbor. it never stank like this. white harbor is to king's landing as my brother tyrion is to ser gregor clegane. nage led them up a low hill, the seven-tailed peace banner lifting and turning in the wind, the polished seven-pointed star shining bright upon its staff. he would see cersei soon, and tyrion, and their father. could my brother truly have killed the boy? jaime found that hard to believe. he was curiously calm. men were supposed to go mad with grief when their children died, he knew. they were supposed to tear their hair out by the roots, to curse the gods and swear red vengeance. so why was it that he felt so little? the boy lived and died believing robert baratheon his sire. jaime had seen him born, that was true, though more for cersei than the child. but he had never held him. how would it look? his sister warned him when the women finally left them. bad enough jo ff looks like you without you mooning over him. jaime yielded with hardly a fight. the boy had been a squalling pink thing who demanded too much of cersei's time, cersei's love, and cersei's breasts. robert was welcome to him. and now he's dead. he pictured jo ff lying still and cold with a face black from poison, and still felt nothing. perhaps he was the monster they claimed. if the father above came down to offer him back his son or his hand, jaime knew which he would choose. he had a second son, after all, and seed enough for many more. if cersei wants another child i'll give her one... and this time i'll hold him, and the others take those who do not like it. robert was rotting in his grave, and jaime was sick of lies. he turned abruptly and galloped back to find brienne. gods know why i bother. she is the least companionable creature i've ever had the misfortune to meet. the wench rode well behind and a few feet off to the side, as if to proclaim that she was no part of them. they had found men's garb for her along the way; a tunic here, a mantle there, a pair of breeches and a cowled cloak, even an old iron breastplate. she looked more comfortable dressed as a man, but nothing would ever make her look handsome. nor happy. once out of harrenhal, her usual pighead stubbornness had soon reasserted itself. i want my arms and armor back, she had insisted. oh, by all means, let us have you back in steel, jaime replied. a helm, especially. we'll all be happier if you keep your mouth shut and your visor down. that much brienne could do, but her sullen silences soon began to fray his good humor almost as much as qyburn's endless attempts to be ingratiating. i never thought i would find myself missing the company of cleos frey, gods help me. he was beginning to wish he had left her for the bear after all. king's landing, jaime announced when he found her. our journey's done, my lady. you've kept your vow, and delivered me to king's landing. all but a few fingers and a hand. brienne's eyes were listless. that was only half my vow. i told lady catelyn i would bring her back her daughters. or sansa, at the least. and now... she never met robb stark, yet her grief for him runs deeper than mine for joff or perhaps it was lady catelyn she mourned. they had been at brindlewood when they had that news, from a red- faced tub of a knight named ser bertram beesbury, whose arms were three beehives on a field striped black and yellow. a troop of lord piper's men had passed through brindlewood only yesterday, beesbury told them, rushing to king's landing beneath a peace banner of their own. with the young wolf dead piper saw no point to fighting on. his son is captive at the twins. brienne gaped like a cow about to choke on her cud, so it fell to jaime to draw out the tale of the red wedding. every great lord has unruly bannermen who envy him his place, he told her afterward. my father had the reynes and tarbecks, the tyrells have the florents, hoster tully had walder frey. only strength keeps such men in their place. the moment they smell weakness... during the age of heroes, the boltons used to flay the starks and wear their skins as cloaks. she looked so miserable that jaime almost found himself wanting to comfort her. since that day brienne had been like one half-dead. even calling her wench failed to provoke any response. the strength is gone from her. the woman had dropped a rock on robin ryger, battled a bear with a tourney sword, bitten off vargo float's ear, and fought jaime to exhaustion... but she was broken now, done. i'll speak to my father about returning you to tarth, if it please you, he told her. or if you would rather stay, i could perchance find some place for you at court. as a lady companion to the queen? she said dully. jaime remembered the sight of her in that pink satin gown, and tried not to imagine what his sister might say of such a companion. perhaps a post with the city watch... i will not serve with oathbreakers and murderers. then why did you ever bother putting on a sword? he might have said, but he bit back the words. as you will, brienne. one-handed, he wheeled his horse about and left her. the gate of the gods was open when they reached it, but two dozen wayns were lined up along the roadside, loaded with casks of cider, barrels of apples, bales of hay, and some of the biggest pumpkins jaime had ever seen. almost every wagon had its guards; men-at-arms wearing the badges of small lordlings, sellswords in mail and boiled leather, sometimes only a pink-cheeked farmer's son clutching a homemade spear with a firehardened point. jaime smiled at them all as he trotted past. at the gate, the gold cloaks were collecting coin from each driver before waving the wagons through. what's this? steelshanks demanded. they got to pay for the right to sell inside the city. by command of the king's hand and the master of coin. jaime looked at the long line of wayns, carts, and laden horses. yet they still line up to pay? there's good coin to be made here now that the fighting's done, the miller in the nearest wagon told them cheerfully. it's the lannisters hold the city now, old lord tywin of the rock. they say he shits silver. gold, jaime corrected dryly. and littlefinger mints the stuff from goldenrod, i vow. the imp is master of coin now, said the captain of the gate. or was, till they arrested him for murdering the king. the man looked the northmen over suspiciously. who are you lot? lord bolton's men, come to see the king's hand. the captain glanced at nage with his peace banner. come to bend the knee, you mean. you're not the first. go straight up to the castle, and see you make no trouble. he waved them through and turned back to the wagons. if king's landing mourned its dead boy king, jaime would never have known it. on the street of seeds a begging brother in threadbare robes was praying loudly for joffrey's soul, but the passersby paid him no more heed than they would a loose shutter banging in the wind. elsewhere milled the usual crowds; gold cloaks in their black mail, bakers' boys selling tarts and breads and hot pies, whores leaning out of windows with their bodices half unlaced, gutters redolent of nightsoil. they passed five men trying to drag a dead horse from the mouth of an alley, and elsewhere a juggler spinning knives through the air to delight a throng of drunken tyrell soldiers and small children. riding down familiar streets with two hundred northmen, a chainless maester, and an ugly freak of a woman at his side, jaime found he scarcely drew a second look. he did not know whether he ought to be amused or annoyed. they do not know me, he said to steelshanks as they rode through cobbler's square. your face is changed, and your arms as well, the northman said, and they have a new kings layer now. the gates to the red keep were open, but a dozen gold cloaks armed with pikes barred the way. they lowered their points as steelshanks came trotting up, but jaime recognized the white knight commanding them. ser meryn. ser meryn trant's droopy eyes went wide. ser jaime? how nice to be remembered. move these men aside. it had been a long time since anyone had leapt to obey him quite so fast. jaime had forgotten how well he liked it. they found two more kingsguard in the outer ward; two who had not worn white cloaks when jaime last served here. how like cersei to name me lord commander and then choose my colleagues without consulting me. someone has given me two new brothers, i see, he said as he dismounted. we have that honor, ser. the knight of flowers shone so fine and pure in his white scales and silk that jaime felt a tattered and tawdry thing by contrast. jaime turned to meryn trant. ser, you've been remiss in teaching our new brothers their duties. what duties? said meryn trant defensively. keeping the king alive. how many monarchs have you lost since i left the city? two, is it? then ser balon saw the stump. your hand... jaime made himself smile. i fight with my left now. it makes for more of a contest. where will i find my lord father? in the solar with lord tyrell and prince oberyn. mace tyrell and the red viper breaking bread together? strange and stranger. is the queen with them as well? no, my lord, ser balon answered. you'll find her in the sept, praying over king joff - you! the last of the northmen had dismounted, jaime saw, and now loras tyrell had seen brienne. ser loras. she stood stupidly, holding her bridle. loras tyrell strode toward her. why? he said. you will tell me why. he treated you kindly, gave you a rainbow cloak. why would you kill him? i never did. i would have died for him. you will. ser loras drew his longsword. it was not me. emmon cuy swore it was, with his dying breath. he was outside the tent, he never saw - there was no one in the tent but you and lady stark. do you claim that old woman could cut through hardened steel? there was a shadow i know how mad it sounds, but... i was helping renly into his armor, and the candles blew out and there was blood everywhere. it was stannis, lady catelyn said. his... his shadow. i had no part in it, on my honor... you have no honor. draw your sword. i won't have it said that i slew you while your hand was empty. jaime stepped between them. put the sword away, ser. ser loras edged around him. are you a craven as well as a killer, brienne? is that why you ran, with his blood on your hands? draw your sword, woman! best hope she doesn't. jaime blocked his path again. or it's like to be your corpse we carry out. the wench is as strong as gregor clegane, though not so pretty. this is no concern of yours. ser loras shoved him aside. jaime grabbed the boy with his good hand and yanked him around. i am the lord commander of the kingsguard, you arrogant pup. your commander, so long as you wear that white cloak. now sheathe your bloody sword, or i'll take it from you and shove it up some place even renly never found. the boy hesitated half a heartbeat, long enough for ser balon swann to say, do as the lord commander says, loras. some of the gold cloaks drew their steel then, and that made some dreadfort men do the same. splendid, thought jaime, no sooner do i climb down off my horse than we have a bloodbath in the yard. ser loras tyrell slammed his sword back into its sheath. that wasn't so difficult, was it? i want her arrested. ser loras pointed. lady brienne, i charge you with the murder of lord renly baratheon. for what it's worth, said jaime, the wench does have honor. more than i have seen from you. and it may even be she's telling it true. i'll grant you, she's not what you'd call clever, but even my horse could come up with a better lie, if it was a lie she meant to tell. as you insist, however... ser balon, escort lady brienne to a tower cell and hold her there under guard. and find some suitable quarters for steelshanks and his men, until such time as my father can see them. yes, my lord. brienne's big blue eyes were full of hurt as balon swann and a dozen gold cloaks led her away. you ought to be blowing me kisses, wench, he wanted to tell her. why must they misunderstand every bloody thing he did? aerys. it all grows from aerys. jaime turned his back on the wench and strode across the yard. another knight in white armor was guarding the doors of the royal sept; a tall man with a black beard, broad shoulders, and a hooked nose. when he saw jaime he gave a sour smile and said, and where do you think you're going? into the sept. jaime lifted his stump to point. that one right there. i mean to see the queen. her grace is in mourning. and why would she be wanting to see the likes of you? because i'm her lover, and the father of her murdered son, he wanted to say. who in seven hells are you? a knight of the kingsguard, and you'd best learn some respect, cripple, or i'll have that other hand and leave you to suck up your porridge of a morning. i am the queen's brother, ser. the white knight thought that funny. escaped, have you? and grown a bit as well, m'lord? her other brother, dolt. and the lord commander of the kingsguard. now stand aside, or you'll wish you had. the dolt took a long look this time. is it... ser jaime. he straightened. my pardons, milord. i did not know you. i have the honor to be ser osmund kettleblack. where's the honor in that? i want some time alone with my sister. see that no one else enters the sept, ser. if we're disturbed, i'll have your bloody head. aye, ser. as you say. ser osmund opened the door. cersei was kneeling before the altar of the mother. joffrey's bier had been laid out beneath the stranger, who led the newly dead to the other world. the smell of incense hung heavy in the air, and a hundred candles burned, sending up a hundred prayers. joff s like to need every one of them, too. his sister looked over her shoulder. who? she said, then, jaime? she rose, her eyes brimming with tears. is it truly you? she did not come to him, however. she has never come to me, he thought. she has always waited, letting me come to her. she gives, but i must ask. you should have come sooner, she murmured, when he took her in his arms. why couldn't you have come sooner, to keep him safe? my boy... our boy. i came as fast i could. he broke from the embrace, and stepped back a pace. it's war out there, sister. you look so thin. and your hair, your golden hair... the hair will grow back. jaime lifted his stump. she needs to see. this won't. her eyes went wide. the starks... no. this was vargo hoat's work. the name meant nothing to her. who? the goat of harrenhal. for a little while. cersei turned to gaze at joffrey's bier. they had dressed the dead king in gilded armor, eerily similar to jaime's own. the visor of the helm was closed, but the candles reflected softly off the gold, so the boy shimmered bright and brave in death. the candlelight woke fires in the rubies that decorated the bodice of cersei' s mourning dress as well. her hair fell to her shoulders, undressed and unkempt. he killed him, jaime, just as he'd warned me. one day when i thought myself safe and happy he would turn my joy to ashes in my mouth, he said. tyrion said that? jaime had not wanted to believe it. kinslaying was worse than kingslaying, in the eyes of gods and men. he knew the boy was mine. i loved tyrion. i was good to him. well, but for that one time... but the imp did not know the truth of that. or did he? why would he kill joff? for a whore. she clutched his good hand and held it tight in hers. he told me he was going to do it. joff knew. as he was dying, he pointed at his murderer. at our twisted little monster of a brother. she kissed jaime's fingers. you'll kill him for me, won't you? you'll avenge our son. jaime pulled away. he is still my brother. he shoved his stump at her face, in case she failed to see it. and i am in no fit state to be killing anyone. you have another hand, don't you? i am not asking you to best the hound in battle. tyrion is a dwarf, locked in a cell. the guards would stand aside for you. the thought turned his stomach. i must know more of this. of how it happened. you shall, cersei promised. there's to be a trial. when you hear all he did, you'll want him dead as much as i do. she touched his face. i was lost without you, jaime. i was afraid the starks would send me your head. i could not have borne that. she kissed him. a light kiss, the merest brush of her lips on his, but he could feel her tremble as he slid his arms around her. i am not whole without you. there was no tenderness in the kiss he returned to her, only hunger. her mouth opened for his tongue. no, she said weakly when his lips moved down her neck, not here. the septons... the others can take the septons. he kissed her again, kissed her silent, kissed her until she moaned. then he knocked the candles aside and lifted her up onto the mother's altar, pushing up her skirts and the silken shift beneath. she pounded on his chest with feeble fists, murmuring about the risk, the danger, about their father, about the septons, about the wrath of gods. he never heard her. he undid his breeches and climbed up and pushed her bare white legs apart. one hand slid up her thigh and underneath her smallclothes. when he tore them away, he saw that her moon's blood was on her, but it made no difference. hurry, she was whispering now, quickly, quickly, now, do it now, do me now. jaime jaime jaime. her hands helped guide him. yes, cersei said as he thrust, my brother, sweet brother, yes, like that, yes, i have you, you're home now, you're home now, you're home. she kissed his ear and stroked his short bristly hair. jaime lost himself in her flesh. he could feel cersei' s heart beating in time with his own, and the wetness of blood and seed where they were joined. but no sooner were they done than the queen said, let me up. if we are discovered like this... reluctantly he rolled away and helped her off the altar. the pale marble was smeared with blood. jaime wiped it clean with his sleeve, then bent to pick up the candles he had knocked over. fortunately they had all gone out when they fell. if the sept had caught fire i might never have noticed. this was folly. cersei pulled her gown straight. with father in the castle... jaime, we must be careful. i am sick of being careful. the targaryens wed brother to sister, why shouldn't we do the same? marry me, cersei. stand up before the realm and say it's me you want. we'll have our own wedding feast, and make another son in place of joffrey. she drew back. that's not funny. do you hear me chuckling? did you leave your wits at riverrun? her voice had an edge to it. tommen's throne derives from robert, you know that. he'll have casterly rock, isn't that enough? let father sit the throne. all i want is you. he made to touch her cheek. old habits die hard, and it was his right arm he lifted. cersei recoiled from his stump. don't... don't talk like this. you're scaring me, jaime. don't be stupid. one wrong word and you'll cost us everything. what did they do to you? they cut off my hand. no, it's more, you're changed. she backed off a step. we'll talk later, on the morrow. i have sansa stark's maids in a tower cell, i need to question them... you should go to father. i crossed a thousand leagues to come to you, and lost the best part of me along the way. don't tell me to leave. leave me, she repeated, turning away. jaime laced up his breeches and did as she commanded. weary as he was, he could not seek a bed. by now his lord father knew that he was back in the city. the tower of the hand was guarded by lannister household guards, who knew him at once. the gods are good, to give you back to us, ser, one said, as he held the door. the gods had no part in it. catelyn stark gave me back. her, and the lord of the dreadfort. he climbed the stairs and pushed into the solar unannounced, to find his father sitting by the fire. lord tywin was alone, for which jaime was thankful. he had no desire to flaunt his maimed hand for mace tyre 11 or the red viper just now, much less the two of them together. jaime, lord tywin said, as if they'd last seen each other at breakfast. lord bolton led me to expect you earlier. i had hoped you'd be here for the wedding. i was delayed. jaime closed the door softly. my sister outdid herself, i'm told. seventy- seven courses and a regicide, never a wedding like it. how long have you known i was free? the eunuch told me a few days after your escape. i sent men into the riverlands to look for you. gregor clegane, samwell spicer, the brothers plumm. varys put out the word as well, but quietly. we agreed that the fewer people who knew you were free, the fewer would be hunting you. did varys mention this? he moved closer to the fire, to let his father see. lord tywin pushed himself out of his chair, breath hissing between his teeth. who did this? if lady catelyn thinks - lady catelyn held a sword to my throat and made me swear to return her daughters. this was your goat's work. vargo hoat, the lord of harrenhal! lord tywin looked away, disgusted. no longer. ser gregor's taken the castle. the sellswords deserted their erstwhile captain almost to a man, and some of lady whent's old people opened a postern gate. clegane found hoat sitting alone in the hall of a hundred hearths, half-mad with pain and fever from a wound that festered. his ear, i'm told. jaime had to laugh. too sweet! his ear! he could scarcely wait to tell brienne, though the wench wouldn't find it half so funny as he did. is he dead yet? soon. they have taken off his hands and feet, but clegane seems amused by the way the qohorik slobbers. jaime's smile curdled. what about his brave companions? the few who stayed at harrenhal are dead. the others scattered. they'll make for ports, i'll warrant, or try and lose themselves in the woods. his eyes went back to jaime's stump, and his mouth grew taut with fury. we'll have their heads. every one. can you use a sword with your left hand? i can hardly dress myself in the morning. jaime held up the hand in question for his father's inspection. four fingers, a thumb, much like the other. why shouldn't it work as well? good. his father sat. that is good. i have a gift for you. for your return. after varys told me...- unless it's a new hand, let it wait. jaime took the chair across from him. how did joffrey die? poison. it was meant to appear as though he choked on a morsel of food, but i had his throat slit open and the maesters could find no obstruction. cersei claims that tyrion did it. your brother served the king the poisoned wine, with a thousand people looking on. that was rather foolish of him. i have taken tyrion's squire into custody. his wife's maids as well. we shall see if they have anything to tell us. ser addam's gold cloaks are searching for the stark girl, and varys has offered a reward. the king's justice will be done. the king's justice. you would execute your own son? he stands accused of regicide and kinslaying. if he is innocent, he has nothing to fear. first we must needs consider the evidence for and against him. evidence. in this city of liars, jaime knew what sort of evidence would be found. renly died strangely as well, when stannis needed him to. lord renly was murdered by one of his own guards, some woman from tarth. that woman from tarth is the reason i'm here. i tossed her into a cell to appease ser loras, but i'll believe in renly' s ghost before i believe she did him any harm. but stannis - it was poison that killed joffrey, not sorcery. lord tywin glanced at jaime's stump again. you cannot serve in the kingsguard without a sword hand - i can, he interrupted. and i will. there's precedent. i'll look in the white book and find it, if you like. crippled or whole, a knight of the kingsguard serves for life. cersei ended that when she replaced ser barristan on grounds of age. a suitable gift to the faith will persuade the high septon to release you from your vows. your sister was foolish to dismiss selmy, admittedly, but now that she has opened the gates - - someone needs to close them again. jaime stood. i am tired of having highborn women kicking pails of shit at me, father. no one ever asked me if i wanted to be lord commander of the kingsguard, but it seems i am. i have a duty - you do. lord tywin rose as well. a duty to house lannister. you are the heir to casterly rock. that is where you should be. tommen should accompany you, as your ward and squire. the rock is where he'll learn to be a lannister, and i want him away from his mother. i mean to find a new husband for cersei. oberyn martell perhaps, once i convince lord tyrell that the match does not threaten highgarden. and it is past time you were wed. the tyrells are now insisting that margaery be wed to tommen, but if i were to offer you instead - no! jaime had heard all that he could stand. no, more than he could stand. he was sick of it, sick of lords and lies, sick of his father, his sister, sick of the whole bloody business. no. no. no. no. no. how many times must i say no before you'll hear it? oberyn martell? the man's infamous, and not just for poisoning his sword. he has more bastards than robert, and beds with boys as well. and if you think for one misbegotten moment that i would wed joffrey's widow... lord tyrell swears the girl's still maiden. she can die a maiden as far as i'm concerned. i don't want her, and i don't want your rock! you are my son - i am a knight of the kingsguard. the lord commander of the kingsguard! and that's all i mean to be! firelight gleamed golden in the stiff whiskers that framed lord tywin's face. a vein pulsed in his neck, but he did not speak. and did not speak. and did not speak. the strained silence went on until it was more than jaime could endure. father... he began. you are not my son. lord tywin turned his face away. you say you are the lord commander of the kingsguard, and only that. very well, ser. go do your duty. a white book sat on a white table in a white room. the room was round, its walls of whitewashed stone hung with white woolen tapestries. it formed the first floor of white sword tower, a slender structure of four stories built into an angle of the castle wall overlooking the bay. the undercroft held arms and armor, the second and third floors the small spare sleeping cells of the six brothers of the kingsguard. one of those cells had been his for eighteen years, but this morning he had moved his things to the topmost floor, which was given over entirely to the lord commander's apartments. those rooms were spare as well, though spacious; and they were above the outer walls, which meant he would have a view of the sea. i will like that, he thought. the view, and all the rest. as pale as the room, jaime sat by the book in his kingsguard whites, waiting for his sworn brothers. a longsword hung from his hip. from the wrong hip. before he had always worn his sword on his left, and drawn it across his body when he unsheathed. he had shifted it to his right hip this morning, so as to be able to draw it with his left hand in the same manner, but the weight of it felt strange there, and when he had tried to pull the blade from the scabbard the whole motion seemed clumsy and unnatural. his clothing fit badly as well. he had donned the winter raiment of the kingsguard, a tunic and breeches of bleached white wool and a heavy white cloak, but it all seemed to hang loose on him. jaime had spent his days at his brother's trial, standing well to the back of the hall. either tyrion never saw him there or he did not know him, but that was no surprise. half the court no longer seemed to know him. i am a stranger in my own house. his son was dead, his father had disowned him, and his sister... she had not allowed him to be alone with her once, after that first day in the royal sept where joffrey lay amongst the candles. even when they bore him across the city to his tomb in the great sept of baelor, cersei kept a careful distance. he looked about the round room once more. white wool hangings covered the walls, and there was a white shield and two crossed longswords mounted above the hearth. the chair behind the table was old black oak, with cushions of blanched cowhide, the leather worn thin. worn by the bony arse of barristan the bold and ser gerold hightower before him, by prince aemon the dragonknight, ser ryam redwyne, and the demon of darry, by ser duncan the tall and the pale griffin alyn connington. how could the kingslayer belong in such exalted company? yet here he was. the table itself was old weirwood, pale as bone, carved in the shape of a huge shield supported by three white stallions. by tradition the lord commander sat at the top of the shield, and the brothers three to a side, on the rare occasions when all seven were assembled. the book that rested by his elbow was massive; two feet tall and a foot and a half wide, a thousand pages thick, fine white vellum bound between covers of bleached white leather with gold hinges and fastenings. the book of the brothers was its formal name, but more often it was simply called the white book. within the white book was the history of the kingsguard. every knight who'd ever served had a page, to record his name and deeds for all time. on the top left-hand corner of each page was drawn the shield the man had carried at the time he was chosen, inked in rich colors. down in the bottom right corner was the shield of the kingsguard; snow-white, empty, pure. the upper shields were all different; the lower shields were all the same, in the space between were written the facts of each man's life and service. the heraldic drawings and illuminations were done by septons sent from the great sept of baelor three times a year, but it was the duty of the lord commander to keep the entries up to date. my duty, now once he learned to write with his left hand, that is. the white book was well behind. the deaths of ser mandon moore and ser preston greenfield needed to be entered, and the brief bloody kingsguard service of sandor clegane as well. new pages must be started for ser balon swann, ser osmund kettleblack, and the knight of flowers. i will need to summon a septon to draw their shields. ser barristan selmy had preceded jaime as lord commander. the shield atop his page showed the arms of house selmy: three stalks of wheat, yellow, on a brown field. jaime was amused, though unsurprised, to find that ser barristan had taken the time to record his own dismissal before leaving the castle. ser barristan of house selmy. firstborn son of ser lyonel selmy of harvest hall. served as squire to ser manfred swann. named the bold in his 10th year, when he donned borrowed armor to appear as a mystery knight in the tourney at blackhaven, where he was defeated and unmasked by duncan, prince of dragonflies. knighted in his 16th year by king aegon v targaryen, after performing great feats of prowess as a mystery knight in the winter tourney at king's landing, defeating prince duncan the small and ser duncan the tall, lord commander of the kingsguard. slew maelys the monstrous, last of the blackfyre pretenders, in single combat during the war of the ninepenny kings. defeated lormelle long lance and cedrik storm, the bastard of bronzegate. named to the kingsguard in his 23rd year, by lord commander ser gerold hightower. defended the passage against all challengers in the tourney of the silver bridge. victor in the meddle at maidenpool. brought king aerys ii to safety during the defiance of duskendale, despite an arrow wound in the chest. avenged the murder of his sworn brother, ser gwayne gaunt. rescued lady jeyne swann and her septa from the kingswood brotherhood, defeating simon toyne and the smiling knight, and slaying the former. in the oldtown tourney, defeated and unmasked the mystery knight blackshield, revealing him as the bastard of uplands. sole champion of lord steffon's tourney at storm's end, whereat he unhorsed lord robert baratheon, prince oberyn martell, lord leyton hightower, lord jon connington, lord jason mallister, and prince rhaegar targaryen. wounded by arrow, spear, and sword at the battle of the trident whilst fighting beside his sworn brothers and rhaegar prince of dragonstone. pardoned, and named lord commander of the kingsguard, by king robert i baratheon. served in the honor guard that brought lady cersei of house lannister to king's landing to wed king robert. led the attack on old wyk during balon greyjoy's rebellion. champion of the tourney at king's landing, in his 57th year. dismissed from service by king joffrey i baratheon in his 61st year, for reasons of advanced age. the earlier part of ser barristan's storied career had been entered by ser gerold hightower in a big forceful hand. selmy's own smaller and more elegant writing took over with the account of his wounding on the trident. jaime's own page was scant by comparison. ser jaime of house lannister. firstborn son of lord tywin and lady joanna of casterly rock. served against the kingswood brotherhood as squire to lord sumner crakehall. knighted in his 15th year by ser arthur dayne of the kings guard, for valor in the field. chosen for the kingsguard in his 15th year by king aerys ii targaryen. during the sack of king's landing, slew king aerys ii at the foot of the iron throne. thereafter known as the kingslayer. pardoned for his crime by king robert i baratheon. served in the honor guard that brought his sister the lady cersei lannister to king's landing to wed king robert. champion in the tourney held at king's landing on the occasion of their wedding. summed up like that, his life seemed a rather scant and mingy thing. ser barristan could have recorded a few of his other tourney victories, at least. and ser gerold might have written a few more words about the deeds he'd performed when ser arthur dayne broke the kingswood brotherhood. he had saved lord sumner's life as big belly ben was about to smash his head in, though the outlaw had escaped him. and he'd held his own against the smiling knight, though it was ser arthur who slew him. what a fight that was, and what a foe. the smiling knight was a madman, cruelty and chivalry all jumbled up together, but he did not know the meaning of fear. and dayne, with dawn in hand... the outlaw's longsword had so many notches by the end that ser arthur had stopped to let him fetch a new one. it's that white sword of yours i want, the robber knight told him as they resumed, though he was bleeding from a dozen wounds by then. then you shall have it, ser, the sword of the morning replied, and made an end of it. the world was simpler in those days, jaime thought, and men as well as swords were made of finer steel. or was it only that he had been fifteen? they were all in their graves now, the sword of the morning and the smiling knight, the white bull and prince lewyn, ser oswell whent with his black humor, earnest jon darry, simon toyne and his kingswood brotherhood, bluff old sumner crakehall. and me, that boy i was... when did he die, i wonder? when i donned the white cloak? when i opened aerys's throat? that boy had wanted to be ser arthur dayne, but someplace along the way he had become the smiling knight instead. when he heard the door open, he closed the white book and stood to receive his sworn brothers. ser osmund kettleblack was the first to arrive. he gave jaime a grin, as if they were old brothers-in-arms. ser jaime, he said, had you looked like this t'other night, i'd have known you at once. would you indeed? jaime doubted that. the servants had bathed him, shaved him, and washed and brushed his hair. when he looked in a glass, he no longer saw the man who had crossed the riverlands with brienne... but he did not see himself either. his face was thin and hollow, and he had lines under his eyes. i look like some old man. stand by your seat, ser. kettleblack complied. the other sworn brothers filed in one by one. sers, jaime said in a formal tone when all five had assembled, who guards the king? my brothers ser osney and ser osfryd, ser osmund replied. and my brother ser garlan, said the knight of flowers. will they keep him safe? they will, my lord. be seated, then. the words were ritual. before the seven could meet in session, the king's safety must be assured. ser boros and ser meryn sat to his right, leaving an empty chair between them for ser arys oakheart, off in dome. ser osmund, ser balon, and ser loras took the seats to his left. the old and the new. jaime wondered if that meant anything. there had been times during its history where the kingsguard had been divided against itself, most notably and bitterly during the dance of the dragons. was that something he needed to fear as well? it seemed queer to him to sit in the lord commander's seat where barristan the bold had sat for so many years. and even queerer to sit here crippled. nonetheless, it was his seat, and this was his kingsguard now tommen's seven. jaime had served with meryn trant and boros blount for years; adequate fighters, but trant was sly and cruel, and blount a bag of growly air. ser balon swann was better suited to his cloak, and of course the knight of flowers was supposedly all a knight should be. the fifth man was a stranger to him, this osmund kettleblack. he wondered what ser arthur dayne would have to say of this lot. how is it that the kingsguard has fallen so low, most like. it was my doing, i would have to answer. i opened the door, and did nothing when the vermin began to crawl inside. the king is dead, jaime began. my sister's son, a boy of thirteen, murdered at his own wedding feast in his own hall. all five of you were present. all five of you were protecting him. and yet he's dead. he waited to see what they would say to that, but none of them so much as cleared a throat. the tyre 11 boy is angry, and balon swann' s ashamed, he judged. from the other three jaime sensed only indifference. did my brother do this thing? he asked them bluntly. did tyrion poison my nephew? ser balon shifted uncomfortably in his seat. ser boros made a fist. ser osmund gave a lazy shrug. it was meryn trant who finally answered. he filled joffrey's cup with wine. that must have been when he slipped the poison in. you are certain it was the wine that was poisoned? what else? said ser boros blount. the imp emptied the dregs on the floor. why, but to spill the wine that might have proved him guilty? he knew the wine was poisoned, said ser meryn. ser balon swann frowned. the imp was not alone on the dais. far from it. that late in the feast, we had people standing and moving about, changing places, slipping off to the privy, servants were coming and going... the king and queen had just opened the wedding pie, every eye was on them or those thrice-damned doves. no one was watching the wine cup. who else was on the dais? asked jaime. ser meryn answered. the king's family, the bride's family, grand maester pycelle, the high septon... there's your poisoner, suggested ser oswald kettleblack with a sly grin. too holy by half, that old man. never liked the look o' him, myself. he laughed. no, the knight of flowers said, unamused. sansa stark was the poisoner. you all forget, my sister was drinking from that chalice as well. sansa stark was the only person in the hall who had reason to want margaery dead, as well as the king. by poisoning the wedding cup, she could hope to kill both of them. and why did she run afterward, unless she was guilty? the boy makes sense. tyrion might yet be innocent. no one was any closer to finding the girl, however. perhaps jaime should look into that himself. for a start, it would be good to know how she had gotten out of the castle. varys may have a notion or two about that. no one knew the red keep better than the eunuch. that could wait, however. just now jaime had more immediate concerns. you say you are the lord commander of the kingsguard, his father had said. go do your duty. these five were not the brothers he would have chosen, but they were the brothers he had; the time had come to take them in hand. whoever did it, he told them, joffrey is dead, and the iron throne belongs to tommen now. i mean for him to sit on it until his hair turns white and his teeth fall out. and not from poison. jaime turned to ser boros blount. the man had grown stout in recent years, though he was big- boned enough to carry it. ser boros, you look like a man who enjoys his food. henceforth you'll taste everything tommen eats or drinks. ser osmund kettleblack laughed aloud and the knight of flowers smiled, but ser boros turned a deep beet red. i am no food taster! i am a knight of the kingsguard! sad to say, you are. cersei should never have stripped the man of his white cloak. but their father had only compounded the shame by restoring it. my sister has told me how readily you yielded my nephew to tyrion's sellswords. you will find carrots and pease less threatening, i hope. when your sworn brothers are training in the yard with sword and shield, you may train with spoon and trencher. tommen loves applecakes. try not to let any sellswords make off with them. you speak to me thus? you? you should have died before you let tommen be taken. as you died protecting aerys, ser? ser boros lurched to his feet, and clasped the hilt of his sword. i won't... i won't suffer this. you should be the food taster, it seems to me. what else is a cripple good for? jaime smiled. i agree. i am as unfit to guard the king as you are. so draw that sword you're fondling, and we shall see how your two hands fare against my one. at the end one of us will be dead, and the kingsguard. will be improved. he rose. or, if you prefer, you may return to your duties. bah! ser boros hawked up a glob of green phlegm, spat it at jaime's feet, and walked out, his sword still in its sheath. the man is craven, and a good thing. though fat, aging, and never more than ordinary, ser boros could still have hacked him into bloody pieces. but boros does not know that, and neither must the rest. they feared the man i was; the man i am they'd pity. jaime seated himself again and turned to kettleblack. ser osmund. i do not know you. i find that curious. i've fought in tourneys, melees, and battles throughout the seven kingdoms. i know of every hedge knight, freerider, and up jumped squire of any skill who has ever presumed to break a lance in the lists. so how is it that i have never heard of you, ser osmund? that i couldn't say, my lord. he had a great wide smile on his face, did ser osmund, as if he and jaime were old comrades in arms playing some jolly little game. i'm a soldier, though, not no tourney knight. where had you served, before my sister found you? here and there, my lord. i have been to oldtown in the south and winterfell in the north. i have been to lannisport in the west, and king's landing in the east. but i have never been to here. nor there. for want of a finger, jaime pointed his stump at ser osmund's beak of a nose. i will ask once more. where have you served? in the stepstones. some in the disputed lands. there's always fighting there. i rode with the gallant men. we fought for lys, and some for tyrosh. you fought for anyone who would pay you. how did you come by your knighthood? on a battlefield. who knighted you? ser robert... stone. he's dead now, my lord. to be sure. ser robert stone might have been some bastard from the vale, he supposed, selling his sword in the disputed lands. on the other hand, he might be no more than a name ser osmund cobbled together from a dead king and a castle wall. what was cersei thinking when she gave this one a white cloak? at least kettleblack would likely know how to use a sword and shield. sellswords were seldom the most honorable of men, but they had to have a certain skill at arms to stay alive. very well, ser, jaime said. you may go. the man's grin returned. he left swaggering. ser meryn. jaime smiled at the sour knight with the rust-red hair and the pouches under his eyes. i have heard it said that joffrey made use of you to chastise sansa stark. he turned the white book around one-handed. here, show me where it is in our vows that we swear to beat women and children. i did as his grace commanded me. we are sworn to obey. henceforth you will temper that obedience. my sister is queen regent. my father is the king's hand. i am lord commander of the kingsguard. obey us. none other. ser meryn got a stubborn look on his face. are you telling us not to obey the king? the king is eight. our first duty is to protect him, which includes protecting him from himself. use that ugly thing you keep inside your helm. if tommen wants you to saddle his horse, obey him. if he tells you to kill his horse, come to me. aye. as you command, my lord. dismissed. as he left, jaime turned to ser balon swann. ser balon, i have watched you tilt many a time, and fought with and against you in melees. i'm told you proved your valor a hundred times over during the battle of the blackwater. the kingsguard is honored by your presence. the honor's mine, my lord. ser balon sounded wary. there is only one question i would put to you. you served us loyally, it's true... but varys tells me that your brother rode with renly and then stannis, whilst your lord father chose not to call his banners at all and remained behind the walls of stonehelm all through the fighting. my father is an old man, my lord. well past forty. his fighting days are done. and your brother? donnel was wounded in the battle and yielded to ser elwood harte. he was ransomed afterward and pledged his fealty to king joffrey, as did many other captives. so he did, said jaime. even so... renly, stannis, joffrey, tommen how did he come to omit balon greyjoy and robb stark? he might have been the first knight in the realm to swear fealty to all six kings. ser balon's unease was plain. donnel erred, but he is tommen's man now. you have my word. it's not ser donnel the constant who concerns me. it's you. jaime leaned forward. what will you do if brave ser donnel gives his sword to yet another usurper, and one day comes storming into the throne room? and there you stand all in white, between your king and your blood. what will you do? i... my lord, that will never happen. it happened to me, jaime said. swann wiped his brow with the sleeve of his white tunic. you have no answer? my lord. ser balon drew himself up. on my sword, on my honor, on my father's name, i swear... i shall not do as you did. jaime laughed. good. return to your duties... and tell ser donnel to add a weathervane to his shield. and then he was alone with the knight of flowers. slim as a sword, lithe and fit, ser loras tyrell wore a snowy linen tunic and white wool breeches, with a gold belt around his waist and a gold rose clasping his fine silk cloak. his hair was a soft brown tumble, and his eyes were brown as well, and bright with insolence. he thinks this is a tourney, and his tilt has just been called. seventeen and a knight of the kingsguard, said jaime. you must be proud. prince aegon the dragonknight was seventeen when he was named. did you know that? yes, my lord. and did you know that i was fifteen? that as well, my lord. he smiled. jaime hated that smile. i was better than you, ser loras. i was bigger, i was stronger, and i was quicker. and now you're older, the boy said. my lord. he had to laugh. this is too absurd. tyrion would mock me unmercifully if he could hear me now, comparing cocks with this green boy. older and wiser, ser. you should learn from me. as you learned from ser boros and ser meryn? that arrow hit too close to the mark. i learned from the white bull and barristan the bold, jaime snapped. i learned from ser arthur dayne, the sword of the morning, who could have slain all five of you with his left hand while he was taking with a piss with the right. i learned from prince lewyn of dome and ser oswell whent and ser jonothor darry, good men every one. dead men, every one. he's me, jaime realized suddenly. i am speaking to myself, as i was, all cocksure arrogance and empty chivalry. this is what it does to you, to be too good too young. as in a swordfight, sometimes it is best to try a different stroke. it's said you fought magnificently in the battle... almost as well as lord renly's ghost beside you. a sworn brother has no secrets from his lord commander. tell me, ser. who was wearing renly's armor? for a moment loras tyrell looked as though he might refuse, but in the end he remembered his vows. my brother, he said sullenly. renly was taller than me, and broader in the chest. his armor was too loose on me, but it suited garlan well. was the masquerade your notion, or his? lord littlefinger suggested it. he said it would frighten stannis's ignorant men-at-arms. and so it did. and some knights and lordlings too. well, you gave the singers something to make rhymes about, i suppose that's not to be despised. what did you do with renly? i buried him with mine own hands, in a place he showed me once when i was a squire at storm's end. no one shall ever find him there to disturb his rest. he looked at jaime defiantly. i will defend king tommen with all my strength, i swear it. i will give my life for his if need be. but i will never betray renly, by word or deed. he was the king that should have been. he was the best of them. the best dressed perhaps, jaime thought, but for once he did not say it. the arrogance had gone out of ser loras the moment he began to speak of renly. he answered truly. he is proud and reckless and full of piss, but he is not false. not yet. as you say. one more thing, and you may return to your duties. yes, my lord? i still have brienne of tarth in a tower cell. the boy's mouth hardened. a black cell would be better. you are certain that's what she deserves? she deserves death. i told renly that a woman had no place in the rainbow guard. she won the melee with a trick. i seem to recall another knight who was fond of tricks. he once rode a mare in heat against a foe mounted on a badtempered stallion. what sort of trickery did brienne use? ser loras flushed. she leapt... it makes no matter. she won, i grant her that. his grace put a rainbow cloak around her shoulders. and she killed him, or let him die. a large difference there. the difference between my crime and the shame of boros blount. she had sworn to protect him. ser emmon cuy, ser robar royce, ser parmen crane, they'd sworn as well. how could anyone have hurt him, with her inside his tent and the others just outside? unless they were part of it. there were five of you at the wedding feast, jaime pointed out. how could joffrey die? unless you were part of it? ser loras drew himself up stiffly. there was nothing we could have done. the wench says the same. she grieves for renly as you do. i promise you, i never grieve for aerys. brienne's ugly, and pighead stubborn. but she lacks the wits to be a liar, and she is loyal past the point of sense. she swore an oath to bring me to king's landing, and here i sit. this hand i lost... well, that was my doing as much as hers. considering all she did to protect me, i have no doubt that she would have fought for renly, had there been a foe to fight. but a shadow? jaime shook his head. draw your sword, ser loras. show me how you'd fight a shadow. i should like to see that. ser loras made no move to rise. she fled, he said. she and catelyn stark, they left him in his blood and ran. why would they, if it was not their work? he stared at the table. renly gave me the van. otherwise it would have been me helping him don his armor. he often entrusted that task to me. we had... we had prayed together that night. i left him with her. ser parmen and ser emmon were guarding the tent, and ser robar royce was there as well. ser emmon swore brienne had... although... yes? jaime prompted, sensing a doubt. the gorget was cut through. one clean stroke, through a steel gorget. renly 's armor was the best, the finest steel. how could she do that? i tried myself, and it was not possible. she's freakish strong for a woman, but even the mountain would have needed a heavy axe. and why armor him and then cut his throat? he gave jaime a confused look. if not her, though... how could it be a shadow? ask her. jaime came to a decision. go to her cell. ask your questions and hear her answers. if you are still convinced that she murdered lord renly, i will see that she answers for it. the choice will be yours. accuse her, or release her. all i ask is that you judge her fairly, on your honor as a knight. ser loras stood. i shall. on my honor. we are done, then. the younger man started for the door. but there he turned back. renly thought she was absurd. a woman dressed in man's mail, pretending to be a knight. if he'd ever seen her in pink satin and myrish lace, he would not have complained. i asked him why he kept her close, if he thought her so grotesque. he said that all his other knights wanted things of him, castles or honors or riches, but all that brienne wanted was to die for him. when i saw him all bloody, with her fled and the three of them unharmed... if she's innocent, then robar and emmon... he could not seem to say the words. jaime had not stopped to consider that aspect of it. i would have done the same, ser, the lie came easy, but ser loras seemed grateful for it. when he was gone, the lord commander sat alone in the white room, wondering. the knight of flowers had been so mad with grief for renly that he had cut down two of his own sworn brothers, but it had never occurred to jaime to do the same with the five who had failed joffrey. he was my son, my secret son... what am i, if i do not lift the hand i have left to avenge mine own blood and seed? he ought to kill ser boros at least, just to be rid of him. he looked at his stump and grimaced. i must do something about that. if the late ser jacelyn bywater could wear an iron hand, he should have a gold one. cersei might like that. a golden hand to stroke her golden hair, and hold her hard against me. his hand could wait, though. there were other things to tend to first. there were other debts to pay. the king sat at the head of the table, a stack of cushions under his arse, signing each document as it was presented to him. only a few more, your grace, ser kevan lannister assured him. this is a bill of attainder against lord edmure tully, stripping him of riverrun and all its lands and incomes, for rebelling against his lawful king. this is a similar attainder, against his uncle ser brynden tully, the blackfish. tommen signed them one after the other, dipping the quill carefully and writing his name in a broad childish hand. jaime watched from the foot of the table, thinking of all those lords who aspired to a seat on the king's small council. they can bloody well have mine. if this was power, why did it taste like tedium? he did not feel especially powerful, watching tommen dip his quill in the inkpot again. he felt bored. and sore. every muscle in his body ached, and his ribs and shoulders were bruised from the battering they'd gotten, courtesy of ser addam marbrand. just thinking of it made him wince. he could only hope the man would keep his mouth shut. jaime had known marbrand since he was a boy, serving as a page at casterly rock; he trusted him as much as he trusted anyone. enough to ask him to take up shields and tourney swords. he had wanted to know if he could fight with his left hand. and now i do. the knowledge was more painful than the beating that ser addam had given him, and the beating was so bad he could hardly dress himself this morning. if they had been fighting in earnest, jaime would have died two dozen deaths. it seemed so simple, changing hands. it wasn't. every instinct he had was wrong. he had to think about everything, where once he'd just moved. and while he was thinking, marbrand was thumping him. his left hand couldn't even seem to hold a longsword properly; ser addam. had disarmed him thrice, sending his blade spinning. this grants said lands, incomes, and castle to ser emmon frey and his lady wife, lady genna. ser kevan presented another sheaf of parchments to the king. tommen dipped and signed. this is a decree of legitimacy for a natural son of lord roose bolton of the dreadfort. and this names lord bolton your warden of the north. tommen dipped, signed, dipped, signed. this grants ser rolph spicer title to the castle castamere and raises him to the rank of lord. tommen scrawled his name. i should have gone to ser ilyn payne, jaime reflected. the king's justice was not a friend as marbrand was, and might well have beat him bloody... but without a tongue, he was not like to boast of it afterward. all it would take would be one chance remark by ser addam in his cups, and the whole world would soon know how useless he'd become. lord commander of the kingsguard. it was a cruel jape, that... though not quite so cruel as the gift his father had sent him. this is your royal pardon for lord gawen westerling, his lady wife, and his daughter jeyne, welcoming them back into the king's peace, ser kevan said. this is a pardon for lord jonos bracken of stone hedge. this is a pardon for lord vance. this for lord goodbrook. this for lord mooton of maidenpool. jaime pushed himself to his feet. you seem to have these matters well in hand, uncle. i shall leave his grace to you. as you wish. ser kevan rose as well. jaime, you should go to your father. this breach between you - - is his doing. nor will he mend it by sending me mocking gifts. tell him that, if you can pry him away from the tyrells long enough. his uncle looked distressed. the gift was heartfelt. we thought that it might encourage you -  - to grow a new hand? jaime turned to tommen. though he had joffrey's golden curls and green eyes, the new king shared little else with his late brother. he inclined to plumpness, his face was pink and round, and he even liked to read. he is still shy of nine, this son of mine. the boy is not the man. it would be seven years before tommen was ruling in his own right. until then the realm would remain firmly in the hands of his lord grandfather. sire, he asked, do i have your leave to go? as you like, ser uncle. tommen looked back to ser kevan. can i seal them now, great- uncle? pressing his royal seal into the hot wax was his favorite part of being king, so far. jaime strode from the council chamber. outside the door he found ser meryn trant standing stiff at guard in white scale armor and snowy cloak. if this one should learn how feeble i am, or kettleblack or blount should hear of it... remain here until his grace is done, he said, then escort him back to maegor's. trant inclined his head. as you say, my lord. the outer ward was crowded and noisy that morning. jaime made for the stables, where a large group of men were saddling their horses. steelshanks! he called. are you off, then? as soon as m'lady is mounted, said steelshanks walton. my lord of bolton expects us. here she is now. a groom led a fine grey mare out the stable door. on her back was mounted a skinny hollow- eyed girl wrapped in a heavy cloak. grey, it was, like the dress beneath it, and trimmed with white satin. the clasp that pinned it to her breast was wrought in the shape of a wolf 's head with slitted opal eyes. the girl's long brown hair blew wild in the wind. she had a pretty face, he thought, but her eyes were sad and wary. when she saw him, she inclined her head. ser jaime, she said in a thin anxious voice. you are kind to see me off. jaime studied her closely. you know me, then? she bit her lip. you may not recall, my lord, as i was littler then... but i had the honor to meet you at winterfell when king robert came to visit my father lord eddard. she lowered her big brown eyes and mumbled, i'm arya stark. jaime had never paid much attention to arya stark, but it seemed to him that this girl was older. i understand you're to be married. i am to wed lord bolton's son, ramsay. he used to be a snow, but his grace has made him a bolton. they say he's very brave. i am so happy. then why do you sound so frightened? i wish you joy, my lady. jaime turned back to steelshanks. you have the coin you were promised? aye, and we've shared it out. you have my thanks. the northman grinned. a lannister always pays his debts. always, said jaime, with a last glance at the girl. he wondered if there was much resemblance. not that it mattered. the real arya stark was buried in some unmarked grave in flea bottom in all likelihood. with her brothers dead, and both parents, who would dare name this one a fraud? good speed, he told steelshanks. nage raised his peace banner, and the northmen formed a column as ragged as their fur cloaks and trotted out the castle gate. the thin girl on the grey mare looked small and forlorn in their midst. a few of the horses still shied away from the dark splotch on the hard-packed ground where the earth had drunk the life's blood of the stableboy gregor clegane had killed so clumsily. the sight of it made jaime angry all over again. he had told his kingsguard to keep the crowd out of the way, but that oaf ser boros had let himself be distracted by the duel. the fool boy himself shared some of the blame, to be sure; the dead dornishman as well. and clegane most of all. the blow that took the boy's arm off had been mischance, but that second cut... well, gregor is paying for it now grand maester pycelle was tending to the man's wounds, but the howls heard ringing from the maester's chambers suggested that the healing was not going as well as it might. the flesh mortifies and the wounds ooze pus, pycelle told the council. even maggots will not touch such foulness. his convulsions are so violent that i have had to gag him to prevent him from biting off his tongue. i have cut away as much tissue as i dare, and treated the rot with boiling wine and bread mold, to no avail. the veins in his arm are turning black. when i leeched him, all the leeches died. my lords, i must know what malignant substance prince oberyn used on his spear. let us detain these other dornishmen until they are more forthcoming. lord tywin had refused him. there will be trouble enough with sunspear over prince oberyn's death. i do not mean to make matters worse by holding his companions captive. then i fear ser gregor may die. undoubtedly. i swore as much in the letter i sent to prince doran with his brother's body. but it must be seen to be the sword of the king's justice that slays him, not a poisoned spear. heal him. grand maester pycelle blinked in dismay. my lord - heal him, lord tywin said again, vexed. you are aware that lord varys has sent fishermen into the waters around dragonstone. they report that only a token force remains to defend the island. the lyseni are gone from the bay, and the great part of lord stannis's strength with them. well and good, announced pycelle. let stannis rot in lys, i say. we are well rid of the man and his ambitions. did you turn into an utter fool when tyrion shaved your beard? this is stannis baratheon. the man will fight to the bitter end and then some. if he is gone, it can only mean he intends to resume the war. most likely he will land at storm's end and try and rouse the storm lords. if so, he's finished. but a bolder man might roll the dice for dome. if he should win sunspear to his cause, he might prolong this war for years. so we will not offend the martells any further, for any reason. the dornishmen are free to go, and you will heal ser gregor. and so the mountain screamed, day and night. lord tywin lannister could cow even the stranger, it would seem. as jaime climbed the winding steps of white sword tower, he could hear ser boros snoring in his cell. ser balon's door was shut as well; he had the king tonight, and would sleep all day. aside from blount's snores, the tower was very quiet. that suited jaime well enough. i ought to rest myself. last night, after his dance with ser addam, he'd been too sore to sleep. but when he stepped into his bedchamber, he found his sister waiting for him. she stood beside the open window, looking over the curtain walls and out to sea. the bay wind swirled around her, flattening her gown against her body in a way that quickened jaime's pulse. it was white, that gown, like the hangings on the wall and the draperies on his bed. swirls of tiny emeralds brightened the ends of her wide sleeves and spiraled down her bodice. larger emeralds were set in the golden spiderweb that bound her golden hair. the gown was cut low, to bare her shoulders and the tops of her breasts. she is so beautiful. he wanted nothing more than to take her in his arms. cersei. he closed the door softly. why are you here? where else could i go? when she turned to him there were tears in her eyes. father's made it clear that i am no longer wanted on the council. jaime, won't you talk to him? jaime took off his cloak and hung it from a peg on the wall. i talk to lord tywin every day. must you be so stubborn? all he wants... ... is to force me from the kingsguard and send me back to casterly rock. that need not be so terrible. he is sending me back to casterly rock as well. he wants me far away, so he'll have a free hand with tommen. tommen is my son, not his! tommen is the king. he is a boy! a frightened little boy who saw his brother murdered at his own wedding. and now they are telling him that he must marry. the girl is twice his age and twice a widow! he eased himself into a chair, trying to ignore the ache of bruised muscles. the tyrells are insisting. i see no harm in it. tommen's been lonely since myrcella went to dome. he likes having margaery and her ladies about. let them wed. he is your son... he is my seed. he's never called me father. no more than joffrey ever did. you warned me a thousand times never to show any undue interest in them. to keep them safe! you as well. how would it have looked if my brother had played the father to the king's children? even robert might have grown suspicious. well, he's beyond suspicion now. robert's death still left a bitter taste in jaime's mouth. it should have been me who killed him, not cersei. i only wished he'd died at my hands. when i still had two of them. if i'd let kingslaying become a habit, as he liked to say, i could have taken you as my wife for all the world to see. i'm not ashamed of loving you, only of the things i've done to hide it. that boy at winterfell... did i tell you to throw him out the window? if you'd gone hunting as i begged you, nothing would have happened. but no, you had to have me, you could not wait until we returned to the city. i'd waited long enough. i hated watching robert stumble to your bed every night, always wondering if maybe this night he'd decide to claim his rights as husband. jaime suddenly remembered something else that troubled him about winterfell. at riverrun, catelyn stark seemed convinced i'd sent some footpad to slit her son's throat. that i'd given him a dagger. that, she said scornfully. tyrion asked me about that. there was a dagger. the scars on lady catelyn' s hands were real enough, she showed them to me. did you...? oh, don't be absurd. cersei closed the window. yes, i hoped the boy would die. so did you. even robert thought that would have been for the best. 'we kill our horses when they break a leg, and our dogs when they go blind, but we are too weak to give the same mercy to crippled children' he told me. he was blind himself at the time, from drink. robert? jaime had guarded the king long enough to know that robert baratheon said things in his cups that he would have denied angrily the next day. were you alone when robert said this? you don't think he said it to ned stark, i hope? of course we were alone. us and the children. cersei removed her hairnet and draped it over a bedpost, then shook out her golden curls. perhaps myrcella sent this man with the dagger, do you think so? it was meant as mockery, but she'd cut right to the heart of it, jaime saw at once. not myrcella. joffrey. cersei frowned. joffrey had no love for robb stark, but the younger boy was nothing to him. he was only a child himself. a child hungry for a pat on the head from that sot you let him believe was his father. he had an uncomfortable thought. tyrion almost died because of this bloody dagger. if he knew the whole thing was joffrey's work, that might be why... i don't care why, cersei said. he can take his reasons down to hell with him. if you had seen how jo ff died... he fought, jaime, he fought for every breath, but it was as if some malign spirit had its hands about his throat. he had such terror in his eyes... when he was little, held run to me when he was scared or hurt and i would protect him. but that night there was nothing i could do. tyrion murdered him in front of me, and there was nothing i could do. cersei sank to her knees before his chair and took jaime's good hand between both of hers. joff is dead and myrcella's in dome. tommen's all i have left. you mustn't let father take him from me. jaime, please. lord tywin has not asked for my approval. i can talk to him, but he will not listen... he will if you agree to leave the kingsguard.- fm not leaving the kingsguard. his sister fought back tears. jaime, you're my shining knight. you cannot abandon me when i need you most! he is stealing my son, sending me away... and unless you stop him, father is going to force me to wed again! jaime should not have been surprised, but he was. the words were a blow to his gut harder than any that ser addam marbrand had dealt him. who? does it matter? some lord or other. someone father thinks he needs. i don't care. i will not have another husband. you are the only man i want in my bed, ever again. then tell him that! she pulled her hands away. you are talking madness again. would you have us ripped apart, as mother did that time she caught us playing? tommen would lose the throne, myrcella her marriage... i want to be your wife, we belong to each other, but it can never be, jaime. we are brother and sister. the targaryens... we are not targaryens! quiet, he said, scornfully. so loud, you'll wake my sworn brothers. we can't have that, now, can we? people might learn that you had come to see me. jaime, she sobbed, don't you think i want it as much as you do? it makes no matter who they wed me to, i want you at my side, i want you in my bed, i want you inside me. nothing has changed between us. let me prove it to you. she pushed up his tunic and began to fumble with the laces of his breeches. jaime felt himself responding. no, he said, not here. they had never done it in white sword tower, much less in the lord commander's chambers. cersei, this is not the place. you took me in the sept. this is no different. she drew out his cock and bent her head over it. jaime pushed her away with the stump of his right hand. no. not here, i said. he forced himself to stand. for an instant he could see confusion in her bright green eyes, and fear as well. then rage replaced it. cersei gathered herself together, got to her feet, straightened her skirts. was it your hand they hacked off in harrenhal, or your manhood? as she shook her head, her hair tumbled around her bare white shoulders. i was a fool to come. you lacked the courage to avenge joffrey, why would i think that you'd protect tommen? tell me, if the imp had killed all three of your children, would that have made you wroth? tyrion is not going to harm tommen or myrcella. i am still not certain he killed joffrey. her mouth twisted in anger. how can you say that? after all his threats - threats mean nothing. he swears he did not do it. oh, he swears, is that it? and dwarfs don't lie, is that what you think? not to me. no more than you would. you great golden fool. he's lied to you a thousand times, and so have i. she bound up her hair again, and scooped up the hairnet from the bedpost where she'd hung it. think what you will. the little monster is in a black cell, and soon ser ilyn will have his head off. perhaps you'd like it for a keepsake. she glanced at the pillow. he can watch over you as you sleep alone in that cold white bed. until his eyes rot out, that is. you had best go, cersei. you're making me angry. oh, an angry cripple. how terrifying. she laughed. a pity lord tywin lannister never had a son. i could have been the heir he wanted, but i lacked the cock. and speaking of such, best tuck yours away, brother. it looks rather sad and small, hanging from your breeches like that. when she was gone jaime took her advice, fumbling one-handed at his laces. he felt a bone- deep ache in his phantom fingers. i've lost a hand, a father, a son, a sister, and a lover, and soon enough i will lose a brother. and yet they keep telling me house lannister won this war. jaime donned his cloak and went downstairs, where he found ser boros blount having a cup of wine in the common room. when you're done with your drink, tell ser loras i'm ready to see her. ser boros was too much of a coward to do much more than glower. you are ready to see who? just tell loras. aye. ser boros drained his cup. aye, lord commander. he took his own good time about it, though, or else the knight of flowers proved hard to find. several hours had passed by the time they arrived, the slim handsome youth and the big ugly maid. jaime was sitting alone in the round room, leafing idly through the white book. lord commander, ser loras said, you wished to see the maid of tarth? i did. jaime waved them closer with his left hand. you have talked with her, i take it? as you commanded, my lord. and? the lad tensed. i... it may be it happened as she says, ser. that it was stannis. i cannot be certain. varys tells me that the castellan of storm's end perished strangely as well, said jaime. ser cortnay penrose, said brienne sadly. a good man. a stubborn man. one day he stood square in the way of the king of dragonstone. the next he leapt from a tower. jaime stood. ser loras, we will talk more of this later. you may leave brienne with me. the wench looked as ugly and awkward as ever, he decided when tyrell left them. someone had dressed her in woman's clothes again, but this dress fit much better than that hideous pink rag the goat had made her wear. blue is a good color on you, my lady, jaime observed. it goes well with your eyes. she does have astonishing eyes. brienne glanced down at herself, flustered. septa donyse padded out the bodice, to give it that shape. she said you sent her to me. she lingered by the door, as if she meant to flee at any second. you look... different? he managed a half-smile. more meat on the ribs and fewer lice in my hair, that's all. the stump's the same. close the door and come here. she did as he bid her. the white cloak... ... is new, but i'm sure i'll soil it soon enough. that wasn't... i was about to say that it becomes you. she came closer, hesitant. jaime, did you mean what you told ser loras? about... about king renly, and the shadow? jaime shrugged. i would have killed renly myself if we'd met in battle, what do i care who cut his throat? you said i had honor... i'm the bloody kingslayer, remember? when i say you have honor, that's like a whore vouchsafing your maidenhood. he leaned back and looked up at her. steelshanks is on his way back north, to deliver arya stark to roose bolton. you gave her to him? she cried, dismayed. you swore an oath to lady catelyn... with a sword at my throat, but never mind. lady catelyn' s dead. i could not give her back her daughters even if i had them. and the girl my father sent with steelshanks was not arya stark. not arya stark? you heard me. my lord father found some skinny northern girl more or less the same age with more or less the same coloring. he dressed her up in white and grey, gave her a silver wolf to pin her cloak, and sent her off to wed bolton's bastard. he lifted his stump to point at her. i wanted to tell you that before you went galloping off to rescue her and got yourself killed for no good purpose. you're not half bad with a sword, but you're not good enough to take on two hundred men by yourself. brienne shook her head. when lord bolton learns that your father paid him with false coin... oh, he knows. lannisters lie, remember? it makes no matter, this girl serves his purpose just as well. who is going to say that she isn't arya stark? everyone the girl was close to is dead except for her sister, who has disappeared. why would you tell me all this, if it's true? you are betraying your father's secrets. the hand's secrets, he thought. i no longer have a father. 1 pay my debts like every good little lion. i did promise lady stark her daughters... and one of them is still alive. my brother may know where she is, but if so he isn't saying. cersei is convinced that sansa helped him murder joffrey. the wench's mouth got stubborn. i will not believe that gentle girl a poisoner. lady catelyn said that she had a loving heart. it was your brother. there was a trial, ser loras said. two trials, actually. words and swords both failed him. a bloody mess. did you watch from your window? my cell faces the sea. i heard the shouting, though. prince oberyn of dome is dead, ser gregor clegane lies dying, and tyrion stands condemned before the eyes of gods and men. they're keeping him in a black cell till they kill him. brienne looked at him. you do not believe he did it. jaime gave her a hard smile. see, wench? we know each other too well. tyrion's wanted to be me since he took his first step, but he'd never follow me in kingslaying. sansa stark killed joffrey. my brother's kept silent to protect her. he gets these fits of gallantry from time to time. the last one cost him a nose. this time it will mean his head. no, brienne said. it was not my lady's daughter. it could not have been her. there's the stubborn stupid wench that i remember. she reddened. my name is... brienne of tarth. jaime sighed. i have a gift for you. he reached down under the lord commander's chair and brought it out, wrapped in folds of crimson velvet. brienne approached as if the bundle was like to bite her, reached out a huge freckled hand, and flipped back a fold of cloth. rubies glimmered in the light. she picked the treasure up gingerly, curled her fingers around the leather grip, and slowly slid the sword free of its scabbard. blood and black the ripples shone. a finger of reflected light ran red along the edge. is this valyrian steel? i have never seen such colors. nor i. there was a time that i would have given my right hand to wield a sword like that. now it appears i have, so the blade is wasted on me. take it. before she could think to refuse, he went on. a sword so fine must bear a name. it would please me if you would call this one oathkeeper. one more thing. the blade comes with a price. her face darkened. i told you, i will never serve... ... such foul creatures as us. yes, i recall. hear me out, brienne. both of us swore oaths concerning sansa stark. cersei means to see that the girl is found and killed, wherever she has gone to ground... brienne's homely face twisted in fury. if you believe that i would harm my lady's daughter for a sword, you - just listen, he snapped, angered by her assumption. i want you to find sansa first, and get her somewhere safe. how else are the two of us going to make good our stupid vows to your precious dead lady catelyn? the wench blinked. i... i thought... i know what you thought. suddenly jaime was sick of the sight of her. she bleats like a bloody sheep. when ned stark died, his greatsword was given to the king's justice, he told her. but my father felt that such a fine blade was wasted on a mere headsman. he gave ser ilyn a new sword, and had ice melted down and reforged. there was enough metal for two new blades. you're holding one. so you'll be defending ned stark's daughter with ned stark's own steel, if that makes any difference to you. ser, i... i owe you an apolo... he cut her off. take the bloody sword and go, before i change my mind. there's a bay mare in the stables, as homely as you are but somewhat better trained. chase after steelshanks, search for sansa, or ride home to your isle of sapphires, it's naught to me. i don't want to look at you anymore. jaime... kingslayer, he reminded her. best use that sword to clean the wax out of your ears, wench. we're done. stubbornly, she persisted. joffrey was your... my king. leave it at that. you say sansa killed him. why protect her? because joff was no more to me than a squirt of seed in cersei's cunt. and because he deserved to die. i have made kings and unmade them. sansa stark is my last chance for honor. jaime smiled thinly. besides, kingslayers should band together. are you ever going to go? her big hand wrapped tight around oathkeeper. i will. and i will find the girl and keep her safe. for her lady mother's sake. and for yours. she bowed stiffly, whirled, and went. jaime sat alone at the table while the shadows crept across the room. as dusk began to settle, he lit a candle and opened the white book to his own page. quill and ink he found in a drawer. beneath the last line ser barristan had entered, he wrote in an awkward hand that might have done credit to a six-year-old being taught his first letters by a maester: defeated in the whispering wood by the young wolf robb stark during the war of the five kings. held captive at riverrun and ransomed for a promise unfuffilled. captured again by the brave companions, and maimed at the word of vargo hoat their captain, losing his sword hand to the blade of zollo the fat. returned safely to king's landing by brienne, the maid of tarth. when he was done, more than three-quarters of his page still remained to be filled between the gold lion on the crimson shield on top and the blank white shield at the bottom. ser gerold hightower had begun his history, and ser barristan selmy had continued it, but the rest jaime lannister would need to write for himself. he could write whatever he chose, henceforth. whatever he chose... 