sobbing, sam took another step. this is the last one, the very last, i can't go on, i can't. but his feet moved again. one and then the other. they took a step, and then another, and he thought, they're not my feet, they're someone else's, someone else is walking, it can't be me. when he looked down he could see them stumbling through the snow; shapeless things, and clumsy. his boots had been black, he seemed to remember, but the snow had caked around them, and now they were misshapen white balls. like two clubfeet made of ice. it would not stop, the snow. the drifts were up past his knees, and a crust covered his lower legs like a pair of white greaves. his steps were dragging, lurching. the heavy pack he carried made him look like some monstrous hunchback. and he was tired, so tired. i can't go on. mother have mercy, i can't. every fourth or fifth step he had to reach down and tug up his swordbelt. he had lost the sword on the fist, but the scabbard still weighed down the belt. he did have two knives; the dragonglass dagger jon had given him and the steel one he cut his meat with. all that weight dragged heavy, and his belly was so big and round that if he forgot to tug the belt slipped right off and tangled round his ankles, no matter how tight he cinched it. he had tried belting it above his belly once, but then it came almost to his armpits. grenn had laughed himself sick at the sight of it, and dolorous edd had said, i knew a man once who wore his sword on a chain around his neck like that. one day he stumbled, and the hilt went up his nose. sam was stumbling himself. there were rocks beneath the snow, and the roots of trees, and sometimes deep holes in the frozen ground. black bernarr had stepped in one and broken his ankle three days past, or maybe four, or... he did not know how long it had been, truly. the lord commander had put bernarr on a horse after that. sobbing, sam took another step. it felt more like he was falling down than walking, falling endlessly but never hitting the ground, just falling forward and forward. i have to stop, it hurts too much. i'm so cold and tired, i need to sleep, just a little sleep beside a fire, and a bite to eat that isn't frozen. but if he stopped he died. he knew that. they all knew that, the few who were left. they had been fifty when they fled the fist, maybe more, but some had wandered off in the snow, a few wounded had bled to death... and sometimes sam heard shouts behind him, from the rear guard, and once an awful scream. when he heard that he had run, twenty yards or thirty, as fast and as far as he could, his half- frozen feet kicking up the snow, he would be running still if his legs were stronger. they are behind us, they are still behind us, they are taking us one by one. sobbing, sam took another step. he had been cold so long he was forgetting what it was like to feel warm. he wore three pairs of hose, two layers of smallclothes beneath a double lambswool tunic, and over that a thick quilted coat that padded him against the cold steel of his chainmail. over the hauberk he had a loose surcoat, over that a triplethick cloak with a bone button that fastened tight under his chins. its hood flopped forward over his forehead. heavy fur mitts covered his hands over thin wool-and-leather gloves, a scarf was wrapped snugly about the lower half of his face, and he had a tight-fitting fleece-lined cap to pull down over his ears beneath the hood. and still the cold was in him. his feet especially. he couldn't even feel them now, but only yesterday they had hurt so bad he could hardly bear to stand on them, let alone walk. every step made him want to scream. was that yesterday? he could not remember. he had not slept since the fist, not once since the horn had blown. unless it was while he was walking. could a man walk while he was sleeping? sam did not know, or else he had forgotten. sobbing, he took another step. the snow swirled down around him. sometimes it fell from a white sky, and sometimes from a black, but that was all that remained of day and night. he wore it on his shoulders like a second cloak, and it piled up high atop the pack he carried and made it even heavier and harder to bear. the small of his back hurt abominably, as if someone had shoved a knife in there and was wiggling it back and forth with every step. his shoulders were in agony from the weight of the mail. he would have given most anything to take it off, but he was afraid to. anyway he would have needed to remove his cloak and surcoat to get at it, and then the cold would have him. if only i was stronger... he wasn't, though, and it was no good wishing. sam was weak, and fat, so very fat, he could hardly bear his own weight, the mail was much too much for him. it felt as though it was rubbing his shoulders raw, despite the layers of cloth and quilt between the steel and skin. the only thing he could do was cry, and when he cried the tears froze on his cheeks. sobbing, he took another step. the crust was broken where he set his feet, otherwise he did not think he could have moved at all. off to the left and right, half-seen through the silent trees, torches turned to vague orange haloes in the falling snow. when he turned his head he could see them, slipping silent through the wood, bobbing up and down and back and forth. the old bear's ring of fire, he reminded himself, and woe to him who leaves it. as he walked, it seemed as if he were chasing the torches ahead of him, but they had legs as well, longer and stronger than his, so he could never catch them. yesterday he begged for them to let him be one of the torchbearers, even if it meant walking outside of the column with the darkness pressing close. he wanted the fire, dreamed of the fire. if i had the fire, i would not be cold. but someone reminded him that he'd had a torch at the start, but he'd dropped it in the snow and snuffed the fire out. sam didn't remember dropping any torch, but he supposed it was true. he was too weak to hold his arm up for long. was it edd who reminded him about the torch, or grenn? he couldn't remember that either. fat and weak and useless, even my wits are freezing now he took another step. he had wrapped his scarf over his nose and mouth, but it was covered with snot now, and so stiff he feared it must be frozen to his face. even breathing was hard, and the air was so cold it hurt to swallow it. mother have mercy, he muttered in a hushed husky voice beneath the frozen mask. mother have mercy, mother have mercy, mother have mercy. with each prayer he took another step, dragging his legs through the snow. mother have mercy, mother have mercy, mother have mercy. his own mother was a thousand leagues south, safe with his sisters and his little brother dickon in the keep at horn hill. she can't hear me, no more than the mother above. the mother was merciful, all the septons agreed, but the seven had no power beyond the wall. this was where the old gods ruled, the nameless gods of the trees and the wolves and the snows. mercy, he whispered then, to whatever might be listening, old gods or new, or demons too, oh, mercy, mercy me, mercy me. maslyn screamed for mercy. why had he suddenly remembered that? it was nothing he wanted to remember. the man had stumbled backward, dropping his sword, pleading, yielding, even yanking off his thick black glove and thrusting it up before him as if it were a gauntlet. he was still shrieking for quarter as the wight lifted him in the air by the throat and near ripped the head off him. the dead have no mercy left in them, and the others... no, i mustn't think of that, don't think, don't remember, just walk, just walk, just walk. sobbing, he took another step. a root beneath the crust caught his toe, and sam tripped and fell heavily to one knee, so hard he bit his tongue. he could taste the blood in his mouth, warmer than anything he had tasted since the fist. this is the end, he thought. now that he had fallen he could not seem to find the strength to rise again. he groped for a tree branch and clutched it tight, trying to pull himself back to his feet, but his stiff legs would not support him. the mail was too heavy, and he was too fat besides, and too weak, and too tired. back on your feet, piggy, someone growled as he went past, but sam paid him no mind. i'll just lie down in the snow and close my eyes. it wouldn't be so bad, dying here. he couldn't possibly be any colder, and after a little while he wouldn't be able to feel the ache in his lower back or the terrible pain in his shoulders, no more than he could feel his feet. i won't be the first to die, they can't say i was. hundreds had died on the fist, they had died all around him, and more had died after, he'd seen them. shivering, sam released his grip on the tree and eased himself down in the snow. it was cold and wet, he knew, but he could scarcely feel it through all his clothing. he stared upward at the pale white sky as snowflakes drifted down upon his stomach and his chest and his eyelids. the snow will cover me like a thick white blanket. it will be warm under the snow, and if they speak of me they'll have to say i died a man of the night's watch. i did. i did. i did my duty. no one can say i forswore myself. i'm fat and i'm weak and i'm craven, but i did my duty. the ravens had been his responsibility. that was why they had brought him along. he hadn't wanted to go, he'd told them so, he'd told them all what a big coward he was. but maester aemon was very old and blind besides, so they had to send sam to tend to the ravens. the lord commander had given him his orders when they made their camp on the fist. you're no fighter. we both know that, boy. if it happens that we're attacked, don't go trying to prove otherwise, you'll just get in the way. you're to send a message. and don't come running to ask what the letter should say. write it out yourself, and send one bird to castle black and another to the shadow tower. the old bear pointed a gloved finger right in sam's face. i don't care if you're so scared you foul your breeches, and i don't care if a thousand wildlings are coming over the walls howling for your blood, you get those birds off, or i swear i'll hunt you through all seven hells and make you damn sorry that you didn't. and mormont's own raven had bobbed its head up and down and croaked, sorry, sorry, sorry. sam was sorry; sorry he hadn't been braver, or stronger, or good with swords, that he hadn't been a better son to his father and a better brother to dickon and the girls. he was sorry to die too, but better men had died on the fist, good men and true, not squeaking fat boys like him. at least he would not have the old bear hunting him through hell, though. i got the birds off. i did that right, at least. he had written out the messages ahead of time, short messages and simple, telling of an attack on the fist of the first men, and then he had tucked them away safe in his parchment pouch, hoping he would never need to send them. when the horns blew sam had been sleeping. he thought he was dreaming them at first, but when he opened his eyes snow was falling on the camp and the black brothers were all grabbing bows and spears and running toward the ringwall. chett was the only one nearby, maester aemon's old steward with the face full of boils and the big wen on his neck. sam had never seen so much fear on a man's face as he saw on chett's when that third blast came moaning through the trees. help me get the birds off, he pleaded, but the other steward had turned and run off, dagger in hand. he has the dogs to care for, sam remembered. probably the lord commander had given him some orders as well. his fingers had been so stiff and clumsy in the gloves, and he was shaking from fear and cold, but he found the parchment pouch and dug out the messages he'd written. the ravens were shrieking furiously, and when he opened the castle black cage one of them flew right in his face. two more escaped before sam could catch one, and when he did it pecked him through his glove, drawing blood. yet somehow he held on long enough to attach the little roll of parchment. the warhorn had fallen silent by then, but the fist rang with shouted commands and the clatter of steel. fly! sam called as he tossed the raven into the air. the birds in the shadow tower cage were screaming and fluttering about so madly that he was afraid to open the door, but he made himself do it anyway. this time he caught the first raven that tried to escape. a moment later, it was clawing its way up through the falling snow, bearing word of the attack. his duty done, he finished dressing with clumsy, frightened fingers, donning his cap and surcoat and hooded cloak and buckling on his swordbelt, buckling it real tight so it wouldn't fall down. then he found his pack and stuffed all his things inside, spare smallclothes and dry socks, the dragonglass arrowheads and spearhead jon had given him and the old horn too, his parchments, inks, and quills, the maps he'd been drawing, and a rock-hard garlic sausage he'd been saving since the wall. he tied it all up and shouldered the pack onto his back. the lord commander said i wasn't to rush to the ringwall, he recalled, but he said i shouldn't come running to him either. sam took a deep breath and realized that he did not know what to do next. he remembered turning in a circle, lost, the fear growing inside him as it always did. there were dogs barking and horses trumpeting, but the snow muffled the sounds and made them seem far away. sam could see nothing beyond three yards, not even the torches burning along the low stone wall that ringed the crown of the hill. could the torches have gone out? that was too scary to think about. the horn blew thrice long, three long blasts means others. the white walkers of the wood, the cold shadows, the monsters of the tales that made him squeak and tremble as a boy, riding their giant ice-spiders, hungry for blood... awkwardly he drew his sword, and plodded heavily through the snow holding it. a dog ran past barking, and he saw some of the men from the shadow tower, big bearded men with longaxes and eight-foot spears. he felt safer for their company, so he followed them to the wall. when he saw the torches still burning atop the ring of stones a shudder of relief went through him. the black brothers stood with swords and spears in hand, watching the snow fall, waiting. ser mallador locke went by on his horse, wearing a snow-speckled helm. sam stood well back behind the others, looking for grenn or dolorous edd. if i have to die, let me die beside my friends, he remembered thinking. but all the men around him were strangers, shadow tower men under the command of the ranger named blane. here they come, he heard a brother say. notch, said blane, and twenty black arrows were pulled from as many quivers, and notched to as many bowstrings. gods be good, there's hundreds, a voice said softly. draw, blane said, and then, hold. sam could not see and did not want to see. the men of the night's watch stood behind their torches, waiting with arrows pulled back to their ears, as something came up that dark, slippery slope through the snow. hold, blane said again, hold, hold. and then, loose. the arrows whispered as they flew. a ragged cheer went up from the men along the ringwall, but it died quickly. they're not stopping, m'lord, a man said to blane, and another shouted, more! look there, coming from the trees, and yet another said, gods ha' mercy, they's crawling. they's almost here, they's on us! sam had been backing away by then, shaking like the last leaf on the tree when the wind kicks up, as much from cold as from fear. it had been very cold that night. even colder than now the snow feels almost warm. i feel better now. a little rest was all i needed. maybe in a little while i'll be strong enough to walk again. in a little while. a horse stepped past his head, a shaggy grey beast with snow in its mane and hooves crusted with ice. sam watched it come and watched it go. another appeared from out of the falling snow, with a man in black leading it. when he saw sam in his path he cursed him and led the horse around. i wish i had a horse, he thought. if i had a horse i could keep going. i could sit, and even sleep some in the saddle. most of their mounts had been lost at the fist, though, and those that remained carried their food, their torches, and their wounded. sam wasn't wounded. only fat and weak, and the greatest craven in the seven kingdoms. he was such a coward. lord randyll, his father, had always said so, and he had been right. sam was his heir, but he had never been worthy, so his father had sent him away to the wall. his little brother dickon would inherit the tarly lands and castle, and the greatsword heartsbane that the lords of horn hill had borne so proudly for centuries. he wondered whether dickon would shed a tear for his brother who died in the snow, somewhere off beyond the edge of the world. why should he? a coward's not worth weeping over. he had heard his father tell his mother as much, half a hundred times. the old bear knew it too. fire arrows, the lord commander roared that night on the fist, when he appeared suddenly astride his horse, give them flame. it was then he noticed sam there quaking. tarly! get out of here! your place is with the ravens. i... i... i got the messages away. good. on mormont's shoulder his own raven echoed, good, good. the lord commander looked huge in fur and mail. behind his black iron visor, his eyes were fierce. you're in the way here. go back to your cages. if i need to send another message, i don't want to have to find you first. see that the birds are ready. he did not wait for a response, but turned his horse and trotted around the ring, shouting, fire! give them fire! sam did not need to be told twice. he went back to the birds, as fast as his fat legs could carry him. i should write the message ahead of time, he thought, so we can get the birds away as fast as need be. it took him longer than it should have to light his little fire, to warm the frozen ink. he sat beside it on a rock with quill and parchment, and wrote his messages. attacked amidst snow and cold, but we've thrown them back with fire arrows, he wrote, as he heard thoren smallwood's voice ring out with a command of, notch, draw... loose. the flight of arrows made a sound as sweet as a mother's prayer. burn, you dead bastards, burn, dywen sang out, cackling. the brothers cheered and cursed. all safe, he wrote. we remain on the fist of the first men. sam hoped they were better archers than him. he put that note aside and found another blank parchment. still fighting on the fist, amidst heavy snow, he wrote when someone shouted, they're still coming. result uncertain. spears, someone said. it might have been ser mallador, but sam could not swear to it. wights attacked us on the fist, in snow, he wrote, but we drove them off with fire. he turned his head. through the drifting snow, all he could see was the huge fire at the center of the camp, with mounted men moving restlessly around it. the reserve, he knew, ready to ride down anything that breached the ringwall. they had armed themselves with torches in place of swords, and were lighting them in the flames. wights all around us, he wrote, when he heard the shouts from the north face. coming up from north and south at once. spears and swords don't stop them, only fire. loose, loose, loose, a voice screamed in the night, and another shouted, bloody huge, and a third voice said, a giant! and a fourth insisted, a bear, a bear! a horse shrieked and the hounds began to bay, and there was so much shouting that sam couldn't make out the voices anymore. he wrote faster, note after note. dead wildlings, and a giant, or maybe a bear, on us, all around. he heard the crash of steel on wood, which could only mean one thing. wights over the ringwall. fighting inside the camp. a dozen mounted brothers pounded past him toward the east wall, burning brands streaming flames in each rider's hand. lord commander mormont is meeting them with fire. we've won. we're winning. we're holding our own. we're cutting our way free and retreating for the wall. we're trapped on the fist, hard pressed. one of the shadow tower men came staggering out of the darkness to fall at sam's feet. he crawled within a foot of the fire before he died. lost, sam wrote, the battle's lost. we're all lost. why must he remember the fight at the fist? he didn't want to remember. not that. he tried to make himself remember his mother, or his little sister talla, or that girl gilly at craster's keep. someone was shaking him by the shoulder. get up, a voice said. sam, you can't go to sleep here. get up and keep walking. i wasn't asleep, i was remembering. go away, he said, his words frosting in the cold air. i'm well. i want to rest. get up. grenn's voice, harsh and husky. he loomed over sam, his blacks crusty with snow. there's no resting, the old bear said. you'll die. grenn. he smiled. no, truly, i'm good here. you just go on. i'll catch you after i've rested a bit longer. you won't. grenn's thick brown beard was frozen all around his mouth. it made him look like some old man. you'll freeze, or the others will get you. sam, get up! the night before they left the wall, pyp had teased grenn the way he did, sam remembered, smiling and saying how grenn was a good choice for the ranging, since he was too stupid to be terrified. grenn hotly denied it until he realized what he was saying. he was stocky and thick- necked and strong - ser alliser thorne had called him aurochs, the same way he called sam ser piggy and jon lord snow - but he had always treated sam nice enough. that was only because of jon, though. if it weren't for jon, none of them would have liked me. and now jon was gone, lost in the skirling pass with qhorin halfhand, most likely dead. sam would have cried for him, but those tears would only freeze as well, and he could scarcely keep his eyes open now. a tall brother with a torch stopped beside them, and for a wonderful moment sam felt the warmth on his face. leave him, the man said to grenn. if they can't walk, they're done. save your strength for yourself, grenn. he'll get up, grenn replied. he only needs a hand. the man moved on, taking the blessed warmth with him. grenn tried to pull sam to his feet. that hurts, he complained. stop it. grenn, you're hurting my arm. stop it. you're too bloody heavy. grenn jammed his hands into sam's armpits, gave a grunt, and hauled him upright. but the moment he let go, the fat boy sat back down in the snow. grenn kicked him, a solid thump that cracked the crust of snow around his boot and sent it flying everywhere. get up! he kicked him again. get up and walk. you have to walk. sam fell over sideways, curling up into a tight ball to protect himself from the kicks. he hardly felt them through all his wool and leather and mail, but even so, they hurt. i thought grenn was my friend. you shouldn't kick your friends. why won't they let me be? i just need to rest, that's all, to rest and sleep some, and maybe die a little. if you take the torch, i can take the fat boy. suddenly he was jerked up into the cold air, away from his sweet soft snow; he was floating. there was an arm under his knees, and another one under his back. sam raised his head and blinked. a face loomed close, a broad brutal face with a flat nose and small dark eyes and a thicket of coarse brown beard. he had seen the face before, but it took him a moment to remember. paul. small paul. melting ice ran down into his eyes from the heat of the torch. can you carry him? he heard grenn ask. i carried a calf once was heavier than him. i carried him down to his mother so he could get a drink of milk. sam's head bobbed up and down with every step that small paul took. stop it, he muttered, put me down, i'm not a baby. i'm a man of the night's watch. he sobbed. just let me die. be quiet, sam, said grenn. save your strength. think about your sisters and brother. maester aemon. your favorite foods. sing a song if you like. aloud? in your head. sam knew a hundred songs, but when he tried to think of one he couldn't. the words had all gone from his head. he sobbed again and said, i don't know any songs, grenn. i did know some, but now i don't. yes you do, said grenn. how about 'the bear and the maiden fair' everybody knows that one. a bear there was, a bear, a bear! all black and brown and covered with hair! no, not that one, sam pleaded. the bear that had come up the fist had no hair left on its rotted flesh. he didn't want to think about bears. no songs. please, grenn. think about your ravens, then. they were never mine. they were the lord commander's ravens, the ravens of the night's watch. they belonged to castle black and the shadow tower. small paul frowned. chett said i could have the old bear's raven, the one that talks. i saved food for it and everything. he shook his head. i forgot, though. i left the food where i hid it. he plodded onward, pale white breath coming from his mouth with every step, then suddenly said, could i have one of your ravens? just the one. i'd never let lark eat it. they're gone, said sam. i'm sorry. so sorry. they're flying back to the wall now. he had set the birds free when he'd heard the warhorns sound once more, calling the watch to horse. two short blasts and a long one, that was the call to mount up. but there was no reason to mount, unless to abandon the fist, and that meant the battle was lost. the fear bit him so strong then that it was all sam could do to open the cages. only as he watched the last raven flap up into the snowstorm did he realize that he had forgotten to send any of the messages he'd written. no, he'd squealed, oh, no, oh, no. the snow fell and the horns blew; ahooo ahooo ahooooooooooooooooooo, they cried, to horse, to horse, to horse. sam saw two ravens perched on a rock and ran after them, but the birds flapped off lazily through the swirling snow, in opposite directions. he chased one, his breath puffing out his nose in thick white clouds, stumbled, and found himself ten feet from the ringwall. after that... he remembered the dead coming over the stones with arrows in their faces and through their throats. some were all in ringmail and some were almost naked... wildlings, most of them, but a few wore faded blacks. he remembered one of the shadow tower men shoving his spear through a wight's pale soft belly and out his back, and how the thing staggered right up the shaft and reached out his black hands and twisted the brother's head around until blood came out his mouth. that was when his bladder let go the first time, he was almost sure. he did not remember running, but he must have, because the next he knew he was near the fire half a camp away, with old ser ottyn wythers and some archers. ser ottyn was on his knees in the snow, staring at the chaos around them, until a riderless horse came by and kicked him in the face. the archers paid him no mind. they were loosing fire arrows at shadows in the dark. sam saw one wight hit, saw the flames engulf it, but there were a dozen more behind it, and a huge pale shape that must have been the bear, and soon enough the bowmen had no arrows. and then sam found himself on a horse. it wasn't his own horse, and he never recalled mounting up either. maybe it was the horse that had smashed ser ottyn's face in. the horns were still blowing, so he kicked the horse and turned him toward the sound. in the midst of carnage and chaos and blowing snow, he found dolorous edd sitting on his garron with a plain black banner on a spear. sam, edd said when he saw him, would you wake me, please? i am having this terrible nightmare. more men were mounting up every moment. the warhorns called them back. ahooo ahooo ahooooooooooooooooooo. they're over the west wall, m'lord, thoren smallwood screamed at the old bear, as he fought to control his horse. i'll send reserves... no! mormont had to bellow at the top of his lungs to be heard over the horns. call them back, we have to cut our way out. he stood in his stirrups, his black cloak snapping in the wind, the fire shining off his armor. spearhead! he roared. form wedge, we ride. down the south face, then east! my lord, the south slope's crawling with them! the others are too steep, mormont said. we have - his garron screamed and reared and almost threw him as the bear came staggering through the snow. sam pissed himself all over again. i didn't think i had any more left inside me. the bear was dead, pale and rotting, its fur and skin all sloughed off and half its right arm burned to bone, yet still it came on. only its eyes lived. bright blue, just as jon said. they shone like frozen stars. thoren smallwood charged, his longsword shining all orange and red from the light of the fire. his swing near took the bear's head off. and then the bear took his. ride! the lord commander shouted, wheeling. they were at the gallop by the time they reached the ring. sam had always been too frightened to jump a horse before, but when the low stone wall loomed up before him he knew he had no choice. he kicked and closed his eyes and whimpered, and the garron took him over, somehow, somehow, the garron took him over. the rider to his right came crashing down in a tangle of steel and leather and screaming horseflesh, and then the wights were swarming over him and the wedge was closing up. they plunged down the hillside at a run, through clutching black hands and burning blue eyes and blowing snow. horses stumbled and rolled, men were swept from their saddles, torches spun through the air, axes and swords hacked at dead flesh, and samwell tarly sobbed, clutching desperately to his horse with a strength he never knew he had. he was in the middle of the flying spearhead with brothers on either side, and before and behind him as well. a dog ran with them for a ways, bounding down the snowy slope and in and out among the horses, but it could not keep up. the wights stood their ground and were ridden down and trampled underhoof even as they fell they clutched at swords and stirrups and the legs of passing horses. sam saw one claw open a garron's belly with its right hand while it clung to the saddle with its left. suddenly the trees were all about them, and sam was splashing through a frozen stream with the sounds of slaughter dwindling behind. he turned, breathless with relief... until a man in black leapt from the brush and yanked him out of the saddle. who he was, sam never saw; he was up in an instant, and galloping away the next. when he tried to run after the horse, his feet tangled in a root and he fell hard on his face and lay weeping like a baby until dolorous edd found him there. that was his last coherent memory of the fist of the first men. later, hours later, he stood shivering among the other survivors, half mounted and half afoot. they were miles from the fist by then, though sam did not remember how. dywen had led down five packhorses, heavy laden with food and oil and torches, and three had made it this far. the old bear made them redistribute the loads, so the loss of any one horse and its provisions would not be such a catastrophe. he took garrons from the healthy men and gave them to the wounded, organized the walkers, and set torches to guard their flanks and rear. all i need do is walk, sam told himself, as he took that first step toward home. but before an hour was gone he had begun to struggle, and to lag... they were lagging now as well, he saw. he remembered pyp saying once how small paul was the strongest man in the watch. he must be, to carry me. yet even so, the snow was growing deeper, the ground more treacherous, and paul's strides had begun to shorten. more horsemen passed, wounded men who looked at sam with dull incurious eyes. some torch bearers went by as well. you're falling behind, one told them. the next agreed. no one's like to wait for you, paul. leave the pig for the dead men. he promised i could have a bird, small paul said, even though sam hadn't, not truly. they aren't mine to give. i want me a bird that talks, and eats corn from my hand. bloody fool, the torch man said. then he was gone. it was a while after when grenn stopped suddenly. we're alone, he said in a hoarse voice. i can't see the other torches. was that the rear guard? small paul had no answer for him. the big man gave a grunt and sank to his knees. his arms trembled as he lay sam gently in the snow. i can't carry you no more. i would, but i can't. he shivered violently. the wind sighed through the trees, driving a fine spray of snow into their faces. the cold was so bitter that sam felt naked. he looked for the other torches, but they were gone, every one of them. there was only the one grenn carried, the flames rising from it like pale orange silks. he could see through them, to the black beyond. that torch will burn out soon, he thought, and we are all alone, without food or friends or fire. but that was wrong. they weren't alone at all. the lower branches of the great green sentinel shed their burden of snow with a soft wet plop. grenn spun, thrusting out his torch. who goes there? a horse's head emerged from the darkness. sam felt a moment's relief, until he saw the horse. hoarfrost covered it like a sheen of frozen sweat, and a nest of stiff black entrails dragged from its open belly. on its back was a rider pale as ice. sam made a whimpery sound deep in his throat. he was so scared he might have pissed himself all over again, but the cold was in him, a cold so savage that his bladder felt frozen solid. the other slid gracefully from the saddle to stand upon the snow. sword-slim it was, and milky white. its armor rippled and shifted as it moved, and its feet did not break the crust of the new-fallen snow. small paul unslung the long-hafted axe strapped across his back. why'd you hurt that horse? that was mawney's horse. sam groped for the hilt of his sword, but the scabbard was empty. he had lost it on the fist, he remembered too late. get away! grenn took a step, thrusting the torch out before him. away, or you burn. he poked at it with the flames. the other's sword gleamed with a faint blue glow, it moved toward grenn, lightning quick, slashing. when the ice blue blade brushed the flames, a screech stabbed sam's ears sharp as a needle. the head of the torch tumbled sideways to vanish beneath a deep drift of snow, the fire snuffed out at once. and all grenn held was a short wooden stick. he flung it at the other, cursing, as small paul charged in with his axe. the fear that filled sam then was worse than any fear he had ever felt before, and samwell tarly knew every kind of fear. mother have mercy, he wept, forgetting the old gods in his terror. father protect me, oh oh... his fingers found his dagger and he filled his hand with that. the wights had been slow clumsy things, but the other was light as snow on the wind. it slid away from paul's axe, armor rippling, and its crystal sword twisted and spun and slipped between the iron rings of paul's mail, through leather and wool and bone and flesh. it came out his back with a hissssssssssss and sam heard paul say, oh, as he lost the axe. impaled, his blood smoking around the sword, the big man tried to reach his killer with his hands and almost had before he fell. the weight of him tore the strange pale sword from the other's grip. do it now stop crying and fight, you baby. fight, craven. it was his father he heard, it was alliser thorne, it was his brother dickon and the boy rast. craven, craven, craven. he giggled hysterically, wondering if they would make a wight of him, a huge fat white wight always tripping over its own dead feet. do it, sam. was that jon, now? jon was dead. you can do it, you can, just do it. and then he was stumbling forward, falling more than running, really, closing his eyes and shoving the dagger blindly out before him with both hands. he heard a crack, like the sound ice makes when it breaks beneath a man's foot, and then a screech so shrill and sharp that he went staggering backward with his hands over his muffled ears, and fell hard on his arse. when he opened his eyes the other's armor was running down its legs in rivulets as pale blue blood hissed and steamed around the black dragonglass dagger in its throat. it reached down with two bone-white hands to pull out the knife, but where its fingers touched the obsidian they smoked. sam rolled onto his side, eyes wide as the other shrank and puddled, dissolving away. in twenty heartbeats its flesh was gone, swirling away in a fine white mist. beneath were bones like milkglass, pale and shiny, and they were melting too. finally only the dragonglass dagger remained, wreathed in steam as if it were alive and sweating. grenn bent to scoop it up and flung it down again at once. mother, that's cold. obsidian. sam struggled to his knees. dragonglass, they call it. dragonglass. dragon glass. he giggled, and cried, and doubled over to heave his courage out onto the snow. grenn pulled sam to his feet, checked small paul for a pulse and closed his eyes, then snatched up the dagger again. this time he was able to hold it. you keep it, sam said. you're not craven like me. so craven you killed an other. grenn pointed with the knife. look there, through the trees. pink light. dawn, sam. dawn. that must be east. if we head that way, we should catch mormont. if you say. sam kicked his left foot against a tree, to knock off all the snow. then the right. i'll try. grimacing, he took a step. i'll try hard. and then another. up in the loft a woman was giving birth noisily, while below a man lay dying by the fire. samwell tarly could not say which frightened him more. they'd covered poor barmen with a pile of furs and stoked the fire high, yet all he could say was, i'm cold. please. i'm so cold. sam was trying to feed him onion broth, but he could not swallow. the broth dribbled over his lips and down his chin as fast as sam could spoon it in. that one's dead. craster eyed the man with indifference as he worried at a sausage. be kinder to stick a knife in his chest than that spoon down his throat, you ask me. i don't recall as we did. giant was no more than five feet tall - his true name was bedwyck - but a fierce little man for all that. slayer, did you ask craster for his counsel? sam cringed at the name, but shook his head. he filled another spoon, brought it to barmen's mouth, and tried to ease it between his lips. food and fire, giant was saying, that was all we asked of you. and you grudge us the food. be glad i didn't grudge you fire too. craster was a thick man made thicker by the ragged smelly sheepskins he wore day and night. he had a broad flat nose, a mouth that drooped to one side, and a missing ear. and though his matted hair and tangled beard might be grey going white, his hard knuckly hands still looked strong enough to hurt. i fed you what i could, but you crows are always hungry. i'm a godly man, else i would have chased you off. you think i need the likes of him, dying on my floor? you think i need all your mouths, little man? the wildling spat. crows. when did a black bird ever bring good to a man's hall, i ask you? never. never. more broth ran from the comer of barmen's mouth. sam dabbed it away with a corner of his sleeve. the ranger's eyes were open but unseeing. i'm cold, he said again, so faintly. a maester might have known how to save him, but they had no maester. kedge whiteye had taken barmen's mangled foot off nine days past, in a gout of pus and blood that made sam sick, but it was too little, too late. i'm so cold, the pale lips repeated. about the hall, a ragged score of black brothers squatted on the floor or sat on rough-hewn benches, drinking cups of the same thin onion broth and gnawing on chunks of hardbread. a couple were wounded worse than barmen, to look at them. fornio had been delirious for days, and ser byam's shoulder was oozing a foul yellow pus. when they'd left castle black, brown bernarr had been carrying bags of myrish fire, mustard salve, ground garlic, tansy, poppy, kingscopper, and other healing herbs. even sweetsleep, which gave the gift of painless death. but brown bernarr had died on the fist and no one had thought to search for maester aemon's medicines. hake had known some herblore as well, being a cook, but hake was also lost. so it was left to the surviving stewards to do what they could for the wounded, which was little enough. at least they are dry here, with a fire to warm them. they need more food, though. they all needed more food. the men had been grumbling for days. clubfoot karl kept saying how craster had to have a hidden larder, and garth of oldtown had begun to echo him, when he was out of the lord commander's hearing. sam had thought of begging for something more nourishing for the wounded men at least, but he did not have the courage. craster's eyes were cold and mean, and whenever the wildling looked his way his hands twitched a little, as if they wanted to curl up into fists. does he know i spoke to gilly, the last time we were here? he wondered. did she tell him i said we'd take her? did he beat it out of her? i'm cold, said barmen. please. i'm cold.,, for all the heat and smoke in craster's hall, sam felt cold himself. and tired, so tired. he needed sleep, but whenever he closed his eyes he dreamed of blowing snow and dead men shambling toward him with black hands and bright blue eyes. up in the loft, gilly let out a shuddering sob that echoed down the long low windowless hall. push, he heard one of craster's older wives tell her. harder. harder. scream if it helps. she did, so loud it made sam wince. craster turned his head to glare. i've had a bellyful o' that shrieking, he shouted up. give her a rag to bite down on, or i'll come up there and give her a taste o' my hand. he would too, sam knew. craster had nineteen wives, but none who'd dare interfere once he started up that ladder. no more than the black brothers had two nights past, when he was beating one of the younger girls. there had been mutterings, to be sure. he's killing her garth of greenaway had said, and clubfoot karl laughed and said, if he don't want the little sweetmeat he could give her to me. black bernarr cursed in a low angry voice, and alan of rosby got up and went outside so he wouldn't have to hear. his roof, his rule, the ranger ronnel harclay had reminded them. craster's a friend to the watch. a friend, thought sam, as he listened to gilly' s muffled shrieks. craster was a brutal man who ruled his wives and daughters with an iron hand, but his keep was a refuge all the same. frozen crows, craster sneered when they straggled in, those few who had survived the snow, the wights, and the bitter cold. and not so big a flock as went north, neither. yet he had given them space on his floor, a roof to keep the snow off, a fire to dry them out, and his wives had brought them cups of hot wine to put some warmth in their bellies. bloody crows, he called them, but he'd fed them too, meager though the fare might be. we are guests, sam reminded himself. gilly is his. his daughter, his wife. his roof, his rule. the first time he'd seen craster's keep, gilly had come begging for help, and sam had lent her his black cloak to conceal her belly when she went to find jon snow. knights are supposed to defend women and children. only a few of the black brothers were knights, but even so... we all say the words, sam thought. i am the shield that guards the realms of men. a woman was a woman, even a wildling woman. we should help her. we should. it was her child gilly feared for; she was frightened that it might be a boy. craster raised up his daughters to be his wives, but there were neither men nor boys to be seen about his compound. gilly had told jon that craster gave his sons to the gods. if the gods are good, they will send her a daughter, sam prayed. up in the loft, gilly choked back a scream. that's it, a woman said. another push, now. oh, i see his head. hers, sam thought miserably. her head, hers. cold, said barmen, weakly. please. i'm so cold. sam put the bowl and spoon aside, tossed another fur across the dying man, put another stick on the fire. gilly gave a shriek, and began to pant. craster gnawed on his hard black sausage. he had sausages for himself and his wives, he said, but none for the watch. women, he complained. the way they wail... i had me a fat sow once birthed a litter of eight with no more'n a grunt. chewing, he turned his head to squint contemptuously at sam. she was near as fat as you, boy. slayer. he laughed. it was more than sam could stand. he stumbled away from the firepit, stepping awkwardly over and around the men sleeping and squatting and dying upon the hard-packed earthen floor. the smoke and screams and moans were making him feel faint. bending his head, he pushed through the hanging deerhide flaps that served craster for a door and stepped out into the afternoon. the day was cloudy, but still bright enough to blind him after the gloom of the hall. some patches of snow weighed down the limbs of surrounding trees and blanketed the gold and russet hills, but fewer than there had been. the storm had passed on, and the days at craster 's keep had been... well, not warm perhaps, but not so bitter cold. sam could hear the soft drip-drip-drip of water melting off the icicles that bearded the edge of the thick sod roof. he took a deep shuddering breath and looked around. to the west olio lophand and tim stone were moving through the horselines, feeding and watering the remaining garrons. downwind, other brothers were skinning and butchering the animals deemed too weak to go on. spearmen and archers walked sentry behind the earthen dikes that were craster's only defense against whatever hid in the wood beyond, while a dozen firepits sent up thick fingers of blue- grey smoke. sam could hear the distant echoes of axes at work in the forest, where a work detail was harvesting enough wood to keep the blazes burning all through the night. nights were the bad time. when it got dark. and cold. there had been no attacks while they had been at craster's, neither wights nor others. nor would there be, craster said. a godly man got no cause to fear such. i said as much to that mance rayder once, when he come sniffing round. he never listened, no more'n you crows with your swords and your bloody fires. that won't help you none when the white cold comes. only the gods will help you then. you best get right with the gods. gilly had spoken of the white cold as well, and she'd told them what sort of offerings craster made to his gods. sam had wanted to kill him when he heard. there are no laws beyond the wall, he reminded himself, and craster's a friend to the watch. a ragged shout went up from behind the daub-and-wattle hall. sam went to take a look. the ground beneath his feet was a slush of melting snow and soft mud that dolorous edd insisted was made of craster's shit. it was thicker than shit, though; it sucked at sam's boots so hard he felt one pull loose. back of a vegetable garden and empty sheep fold, a dozen black brothers were loosing arrows at a butt they'd built of hay and straw. the slender blond steward they called sweet donnel had laid a shaft just off the bull's eye at fifty yards. best that, old man, he said. aye. i will. ulmer, stooped and grey-bearded and loose of skin and limb, stepped to the mark and pulled an arrow from the quiver at his waist. in his youth he had been an outlaw, a member of the infamous kingswood brotherhood. he claimed he'd once put an arrow through the hand of the white bull of the kingsguard to steal a kiss from the lips of a dornish princess. he had stolen her jewels too, and a chest of golden dragons, but it was the kiss he liked to boast of in his cups. he notched and drew, all smooth as summer silk, then let fly. his shaft struck the butt an inch inside of donnel hill's. will that do, lad? he asked, stepping back. well enough, said the younger man, grudgingly. the crosswind helped you. it blew more strongly when i loosed. you ought to have allowed for it, then. you have a good eye and a steady hand, but you'll need a deal more to best a man of the kingswood. fletcher dick it was who showed me how to bend the bow, and no finer archer ever lived. have i told you about old dick, now? only three hundred times. every man at castle black had heard ulmer's tales of the great outlaw band of yore; of simon toyne and the smiling knight, oswyn longneck the thrice- hanged, wenda the white fawn, fletcher dick, big belly ben, and all the rest. searching for escape, sweet donnel looked about and spied sam standing in the muck. slayer, he called. come, show us how you slew the other. he held out the tall yew longbow. sam turned red. it wasn't an arrow, it was a dagger, dragonglass... he knew what would happen if he took the bow. he would miss the butt and send the arrow sailing over the dike off into the trees. then he'd hear the laughter. no matter, said alan of rosby, another fine bowman. we're all keen to see the slayer shoot. aren't we, lads? he could not face them; the mocking smiles, the mean little jests, the contempt in their eyes. sam turned to go back the way he'd come, but his right foot sank deep in the muck, and when he tried to pull it out his boot came off. he had to kneel to wrench it free, laughter ringing in his ears. despite all his socks, the snowmelt had soaked through to his toes by the time he made his escape. useless, he thought miserably. my father saw me true. i have no right to be alive when so many brave men are dead. grenn was tending the firepit south of the compound gate, stripped to the waist as he split logs. his face was red with exertion, the sweat steaming off his skin. but he grinned as sam came chuffing up. the others get your boot, slayer? him too? it was the mud. please don't call me that. why not? grenn sounded honestly puzzled. it's a good name, and you came by it fairly. pyp always teased grenn about being thick as a castle wall, so sam explained patiently. it's just a different way of calling me a coward, he said, standing on his left leg and wriggling back into his muddy boot. they're mocking me, the same way they mock bedwyck by calling him 'giant. he's not a giant, though, said grenn, and paul was never small. well, maybe when he was a babe at the breast, but not after. you did slay the other, though, so it's not the same. i just... i never... i was seared! no more than me. it's only pyp who says i'm too dumb to be frightened. i get as frightened as anyone. grenn bent to scoop up a split log, and tossed it into the fire. i used to be scared of jon, whenever i had to fight him. he was so quick, and he fought like he meant to kill me. the green damp wood sat in the flames, smoking before it took fire. i never said, though. sometimes i think everyone is just pretending to be brave, and none of us really are. maybe pretending is how you get brave, i don't know. let them call you slayer, who cares? you never liked ser alliser to call you aurochs. he was saying i was big and stupid. grenn scratched at his beard. if pyp wanted to call me aurochs, though, he could. or you, or jon. an aurochs is a fierce strong beast, so that's not so bad, and i am big, and getting bigger. wouldn't you rather be sam the slayer than ser piggy? why can't i just be samwell tarly? he sat down heavily on a wet log that grenn had yet to split. it was the dragonglass that slew it. not me, the dragonglass. he had told them. he had told them all. some of them didn't believe him, he knew. dirk had shown sam his dirk and said, i got iron, what do i want with glass? black bernarr and the three garths made it plain that they doubted his whole story, and rolley of sisterton came right out and said, more like you stabbed some rustling bushes and it turned out to be small paul taking a shit, so you came up with a lie. but dywen listened, and dolorous edd, and they made sam and grenn tell the lord commander. mormont frowned all through the tale and asked pointed questions, but he was too cautious a man to shun any possible advantage. he asked sam for all the dragonglass in his pack, though that was little enough. whenever sam thought of the cache jon had found buried beneath the fist, it made him want to cry. there'd been dagger blades and spearheads, and two or three hundred arrowheads at least. jon had made daggers for himself, sam, and lord commander mormont, and he'd given sam a spearhead, an old broken horn, and some arrowheads. grenn had taken a handful of arrowheads as well, but that was all. so now all they had was mormont's dagger and the one sam had given grenn, plus nineteen arrows and a tall hardwood spear with a black dragonglass head. the sentries passed the spear along from watch to watch, while mormont had divided the arrows among his best bowmen. muttering bill, garth greyfeather, ronnel hare lay, sweet donnel hill, and alan of rosby had three a piece, and ulmer had four. but even if they made every shaft tell, they'd soon be down to fire arrows like all the rest. they had loosed hundreds of fire arrows on the fist, yet still the wights kept coming. it will not be enough, sam thought. craster's sloping palisades of mud and melting snow would hardly slow the wights, who'd climbed the much steeper slopes of the fist to swarm over the ringwall. and instead of three hundred brothers drawn up in disciplined ranks to meet them, the wights would find forty-one ragged survivors, nine too badly hurt to fight. forty- four had come straggling into craster's out of the storm, out of the sixty-odd who'd cut their way free of the fist, but three of those had died of their wounds, and barmen would soon make four. do you think the wights are gone? sam asked grenn. why don't they come finish us? they only come when it's cold. yes, said sam, but is it the cold that brings the wights, or the wights that bring the cold? who cares? grenn's axe sent wood chips flying. they come together, that's what matters. hey, now that we know that dragonglass kills them, maybe they won't come at all. maybe they're frightened of us now! sam wished he could believe that, but it seemed to him that when you were dead, fear had no more meaning than pain or love or duty. he wrapped his hands around his legs, sweating under his layers of wool and leather and fur. the dragonglass dagger had melted the pale thing in the woods, true... but grenn was talking like it would do the same to the wights. we don't know that, he thought. we don't know anything, really. i wish jon was here. he liked grenn, but he couldn't talk to him the same way. jon wouldn't call me slayer, i know and i could talk to him about gilly's baby. jon had ridden off with qhorin halfhand, though, and they'd had no word of him since. he had a dragonglass dagger too, but did he think to use it? is he lying dead and frozen in some ravine... or worse, is he dead and walking? he could not understand why the gods would want to take jon snow and barmen and leave him, craven and clumsy as he was. he should have died on the fist, where he'd pissed himself three times and lost his sword besides. and he would have died in the woods if small paul had not come along to carry him. i wish it was all a dream. then i could wake up. how fine that would be, to wake back on the fist of the first men with all his brothers still around him, even jon and ghost. or even better, to wake in castle black behind the wall and go to the common room for a bowl of three-finger hobb's thick cream of wheat, with a big spoon of butter melting in the middle and a dollop of honey besides, just the thought of it made his empty stomach rumble. snow. sam glanced up at the sound. lord commander mormont's raven was circling the fire, beating the air with wide black wings. snow, the bird cawed. snow, snow wherever the raven went, mormont soon followed. the lord commander emerged from beneath the trees, mounted on his garron between old dywen and the fox-faced ranger ronnel hare lay, who'd been raised to thoren smallwood's place. the spearmen at the gate shouted a challenge, and the old bear returned a gruff, who in seven hells do you think goes there? did the others take your eyes? he rode between the gateposts, one bearing a ram's skull and the other the skull of a bear, then reined up, raised a fist, and whistled. the raven came flapping down at his call. my lord, sam heard ronnel hare lay say, we have only twenty-two mounts, and i doubt half will reach the wall. i know that, mormont grumbled. we must go all the same. craster's made that plain. he glanced to the west, where a bank of dark clouds hid the sun. the gods gave us a respite, but for how long? mormont swung down from the saddle, jolting his raven back into the air. he saw sam then, and bellowed, tarly! me? sam got awkwardly to his feet. me? the raven landed on the old man's head. me? is your name tarly? do you have a brother hereabouts? yes, you. close your mouth and come with me. with you? the words tumbled out in a squeak. lord commander mormont gave him a withering look. you are a man of the night's watch. try not to soil your smallclothes every time i look at you. come, i said. his boots made squishing sounds in the mud, and sam had to hurry to keep up. i've been thinking about this dragonglass of yours. it's not mine, sam said. jon snow's dragonglass, then. if dragonglass daggers are what we need, why do we have only two of them? every man on the wall should be armed with one the day he says his words. we never knew... we never knew! but we must have known once. the night's watch has forgotten its true purpose, tarly. you don't build a wall seven hundred feet high to keep savages in skins from stealing women. the wall was made to guard the realms of men... and not against other men, which is all the wildlings are when you come right down to it. too many years, tarly, too many hundreds and thousands of years. we lost sight of the true enemy. and now he's here, but we don't know how to fight him. is dragonglass made by dragons, as the smallfolk like to say? the m-maesters think not, sam stammered. the maesters say it comes from the fires of the earth. they call it obsidian. mormont snorted. they can call it lemon pie for all i care. if it kills as you claim, i want more of it. sam stumbled. jon found more, on the fist. hundreds of arrowheads, spearheads as well... so you said. small good it does us there. to reach the fist again we'd need to be armed with the weapons we won't have until we reach the bloody fist. and there are still the wildlings to deal with. we need to find dragonglass someplace else. sam had almost forgotten about the wildlings, so much had happened since. the children of the forest used dragonglass blades, he said. they'd know where to find obsidian. the children of the forest are all dead, said mormont. the first men killed half of them with bronze blades, and the andals finished the job with iron. why a glass dagger should - the old bear broke off as craster emerged from between the deerhide flaps of his door. the wildling smiled, revealing a mouth of brown rotten teeth. i have a son. son, cawed mormont's raven. son, son, son. the lord commander's face was stiff. i'm glad for you. are you, now? me, i'll be glad when you and yours are gone. past time, i'm thinking. as soon as our wounded are strong enough... they're strong as they're like to get, old crow, and both of us know it. them that's dying, you know them too, cut their bloody throats and be done with it. or leave them, if you don't have the stomach, and i'll sort them out myself. lord commander mormont bristled. thoren smallwood claimed you were a friend to the watch - aye, said craster. i gave you all i could spare, but winter's coming on, and now the girl's stuck me with another squalling mouth to feed. we could take him, someone squeaked. craster's head turned. his eyes narrowed. he spat on sam's foot. what did you say, slayer? sam opened and closed his mouth. i... i... i only meant... if you didn't want him... his mouth to feed... with winter coming on, we... we could take him, and... my son. my blood. you think i'd give him to you crows? i only thought... you have no sons, you expose them, gilly said as much, you leave them in the woods, that's why you have only wives here, and daughters who grow up to be wives. be quiet, sam, said lord commander mormont. you've said enough. too much. inside. m-my lord - inside! red- faced, sam pushed through the deerhides, back into the gloom of the hall. mormont followed. how great a fool are you? the old man said within, his voice choked and angry. even if craster gave us the child, he'd be dead before we reached the wall. we need a newborn babe to care for near as much as we need more snow. do you have milk to feed him in those big teats of yours? or did you mean to take the mother too? she wants to come, sam said. she begged me... mormont raised a hand. i will hear no more of this, tarly. you've been told and told to stay well away from craster's wives. she's his daughter, sam said feebly. go see to barmen. now. before you make me wroth. yes, my lord. sam hurried off quivering. but when he reached the fire, it was only to find giant pulling a fur cloak up over barmen's head. he said he was cold, the small man said. i hope he's gone someplace warm, i do. his wound... said sam. bugger his wound. dirk prodded the corpse with his foot. his foot was hurt. i knew a man back in my village lost a foot. he lived to nine-and-forty. the cold, said sam. he was never warm. he was never fed, said dirk. not proper. that bastard craster starved him dead. sam looked around anxiously, but craster had not returned to the hall. if he had, things might have grown ugly. the wildling hated bastards, though the rangers said he was baseborn himself, fathered on a wildling woman by some long-dead crow. craster's got his own to feed, said giant. all these women. he's given us what he can. don't you bloody believe it. the day we leave, he'll tap a keg o' mead and sit down to feast on ham and honey. and laugh at us, out starving in the snow. he's a bloody wildling, is all he is. there's none o' them friends of the watch. he kicked at bannen's corpse. ask him if you don't believe me. they burned the ranger's corpse at sunset, in the fire that grenn had been feeding earlier that day. tim stone and garth of oldtown carried out the naked corpse and swung him twice between them before heaving him into the flames. the surviving brothers divided up his clothes, his weapons, his armor, and everything else he owned. at castle black, the night's watch buried its dead with all due ceremony. they were not at castle black, though. and bones do not come back as wights. his name was bannen, lord commander mormont said, as the flames took him. he was a brave man, a good ranger. he came to us from... where did he come from? down white harbor way, someone called out. mormont nodded. he came to us from white harbor, and never failed in his duty. he kept his vows as best he could, rode far, fought fiercely. we shall never see his like again. and now his watch is ended, the black brothers said, in solemn chant. and now his watch is ended, mormont echoed. ended, cried his raven. ended. sam was red-eyed and sick from the smoke. when he looked at the fire, he thought he saw bannen sitting up, his hands coiling into fists as if to fight off the flames that were consuming him, but it was only for an instant, before the swirling smoke hid all. the worst thing was the smell, though. if it had been a foul unpleasant smell he might have stood it, but his burning brother smelled so much like roast pork that sam's mouth began to water, and that was so horrible that as soon as the bird squawked ended he ran behind the hall to throw up in the ditch. he was there on his knees in the mud when dolorous edd came up. digging for worms, sam? or are you just sick? sick, said sam weakly, wiping his mouth with the back of his hand. the smell... never knew bannen could smell so good. edd's tone was as morose as ever. i had half a mind to carve a slice off him. if we had some applesauce, i might have done it. pork's always best with applesauce, i find. edd undid his laces and pulled out his cock. you best not die, sam, or i fear i might succumb. there's bound to be more crackling on you than bannen ever had, and i never could resist a bit of crackling. he sighed as his piss arced out, yellow and steaming. we ride at first light, did you hear? sun or snow, the old bear tells me. sun or snow. sam glanced up anxiously at the sky. snow? he squeaked. we... ride? all of us? well, no, some will need to walk. he shook himself. dywen now, he says we need to learn to ride dead horses, like the others do. he claims it would save on feed. how much could a dead horse eat? edd laced himself back up. can't say i fancy the notion. once they figure a way to work a dead horse, we'll be next. likely i'll be the first too. 'edd' they'll say, 'dying's no excuse for lying down no more, so get on up and take this spear, you've got the watch tonight.' well, i shouldn't be so gloomy. might be i'll die before they work it out. might be we'll all die, and sooner than we'd like, sam thought, as he climbed awkwardly to his feet. when craster learned that his unwanted guests would be departing on the morrow, the wildling became almost amiable, or as close to amiable as craster ever got. past time, he said, you don't belong here, i told you that. all the same, i'll see you off proper, with a feast. well, a feed. my wives can roast them horses you slaughtered, and i'll find some beer and bread. he smiled his brown smile. nothing better than beer and horsemeat. if you can't ride 'em, eat 'em, that's what i say. his wives and daughters dragged out the benches and the long log tables, and cooked and served as well. except for gilly, sam could hardly tell the women apart. some were old and some were young and some were only girls, but a lot of them were craster's daughters as well as his wives, and they all looked sort of alike. as they went about their work, they spoke in soft voices to each other, but never to the men in black. craster owned but one chair. he sat in it, clad in a sleeveless sheepskin jerkin. his thick arms were covered with white hair, and about one wrist was a twisted ring of gold. lord commander mormont took the place at the top of the bench to his right, while the brothers crowded in knee to knee; a dozen remained outside to guard the gate and tend the fires. sam found a place between grenn and orphan oss, his stomach rumbling. the charred horsemeat dripped with grease as craster's wives turned the spits above the firepit, and the smell of it set his mouth to watering again, but that reminded him of barmen. hungry as he was, sam knew he would retch if he so much as tried a bite. how could they eat the poor faithful garrons who had carried them so far? when craster's wives brought onions, he seized one eagerly. one side was black with rot, but he cut that part off with his dagger and ate the good half raw. there was bread as well, but only two loaves. when ulmer asked for more, the woman only shook her head. that was when the trouble started. two loaves? clubfoot karl complained from down the bench. how stupid are you women? we need more bread than this! lord commander mormont gave him a hard look. take what you're given, and be thankful. would you sooner be out in the storm eating snow? we'll be there soon enough. clubfoot karl did not flinch from the old bear's wrath. i'd sooner eat what craster's hiding, my lord. craster narrowed his eyes. i gave you crows enough. i got me women to feed. dirk speared a chunk of horsemeat. aye. so you admit you got a secret larder. how else to make it through a winter? i'm a godly man... craster started. you're a niggardly man, said karl, and a liar. hams, garth of oldtown said, in a reverent voice. there were pigs, last time we come. i bet he's got hams hid someplace. smoked and salted hams, and bacon too. sausage, said dirk. them long black ones, they're like rocks, they keep for years. i bet he's got a hundred hanging in some cellar. oats, suggested olio lophand. corn. barley. corn, said mormont's raven, with a flap of the wings. corn, corn, corn, corn, corn. enough, said lord commander mormont over the bird's raucous calls. be quiet, all of you. this is folly. apples, said garth of greenaway. barrels and barrels of crisp autumn apples. there are apple trees out there, i saw 'em. dried berries. cabbages. pine nuts. corn. corn. corn. salt mutton. there's a sheepfold. he's got casks and casks of mutton laid by, you know he does. craster looked fit to spit them all by then. lord commander mormont rose. silence. i'll hear no more such talk.- then stuff bread in your cars, old man. clubfoot karl pushed back from the table. or did you swallow your bloody crumb already? sam saw the old bear's face go red. have you forgotten who i am? sit, eat, and be silent. that is a command. no one spoke. no one moved. all eyes were on the lord commander and the big clubfooted ranger, as the two of them stared at each other across the table. it seemed to sam that karl broke first, and was about to sit, though sullenly... ... but craster stood, and his axe was in his hand. the big black steel axe that mormont had given him as a guest gift. no, he growled. you'll not sit. no one who calls me niggard will sleep beneath my roof nor eat at my board. out with you, cripple. and you and you and you. he jabbed the head of the axe toward dirk and garth and garth in turn. go sleep in the cold with empty bellies, the lot o' you, or... bloody bastard! sam heard one of the garths curse. he never saw which one. who calls me bastard? craster roared, sweeping platter and meat and wine cups from the table with his left hand while lifting the axe with his right. it's no more than all men know, karl answered. craster moved quicker than sam would have believed possible, vaulting across the table with axe in hand. a woman screamed, garth greenaway and orphan oss drew knives, karl stumbled back and tripped over ser byarn lying wounded on the floor. one instant craster was coming after him spitting curses. the next he was spitting blood. dirk had grabbed him by the hair, yanked his head back, and opened his throat ear to ear with one long slash. then he gave him a rough shove, and the wildling fell forward, crashing face first across ser byam. byam screamed in agony as craster drowned in his own blood, the axe slipping from his fingers. two of craster's wives were wailing, a third cursed, a fourth flew at sweet donnel and tried to scratch his eyes out. he knocked her to the floor. the lord commander stood over craster's corpse, dark with anger. the gods will curse us, he cried. there is no crime so foul as for a guest to bring murder into a man's hall. by all the laws of the hearth, we - there are no laws beyond the wall, old man. remember? dirk grabbed one of craster's wives by the arm, and shoved the point of his bloody dirk up under her chin. show us where he keeps the food, or you'll get the same as he did, woman. unhand her. mormont took a step. i'll have your head for this, you - garth of greenaway blocked his path, and olio lophand yanked him back. they both had blades in hand. hold your tongue, olio warned. instead the lord commander grabbed for his dagger. olio had only one hand, but that was quick. he twisted free of the old man's grasp, shoved the knife into mormont's belly, and yanked it out again, all red. and then the world went mad. later, much later, sam found himself sitting cross-legged on the floor, with mormont's head in his lap. he did not remember how they'd gotten there, or much of anything else that had happened after the old bear was stabbed. garth of greenaway had killed garth of oldtown, he recalled, but not why. rolley of sisterton had fallen from the loft and broken his neck after climbing the ladder to have a taste of craster's wives. grenn... grenn had shouted and slapped him, and then he'd run away with giant and dolorous edd and some others. craster still sprawled across ser byam, but the wounded knight no longer moaned. four men in black sat on the bench eating chunks of burned horsemeat while olio coupled with a weeping woman on the table. tarly. when he tried to speak, the blood dribbled from the old bear's mouth down into his beard. tarly, go. go. where, my lord? his voice was flat and lifeless. i am not afraid. it was a queer feeling. there's no place to go. the wall. make for the wall. now. now, squawked the raven. now now the bird walked up the old man's arm to his chest, and plucked a hair from his beard. you must. must tell them. tell them what, my lord? sam asked politely. all. the fist. the wildlings. dragonglass. this. all. his breathing was very shallow now, his voice a whisper. tell my son. jorah. tell him, take the black. my wish. dying wish. wish? the raven cocked its head, beady black eyes shining. corn? the bird asked. no corn, said mormont feebly. tell jorah. forgive him. my son. please. go. it's too far, said sam. i'll never reach the wall, my lord. he was so very tired. all he wanted was to sleep, to sleep and sleep and never wake, and he knew that if he just stayed here soon enough dirk or olio lophand or clubfoot karl would get angry with him and grant his wish, just to see him die. i'd sooner stay with you. see, i'm not frightened anymore. of you, or... of anything. you should be, said a woman's voice. three of craster's wives were standing over them. two were haggard old women he did not know, but gilly was between them, all bundled up in skins and cradling a bundle of brown and white fur that must have held her baby. we're not supposed to talk to craster's wives, sam told them. we have orders. that's done now, said the old woman on the right. the blackest crows are down in the cellar, gorging, said the old woman on the left, or up in the loft with the young ones. they'll be back soon, though. best you be gone when they do. the horses run off, but dyah's caught two. you said you'd help me, gilly reminded him. i said jon would help you. jon's brave, and he's a good fighter, but i think he's dead now. i'm a craven. and fat. look how fat i am. besides, lord mormont's hurt. can't you see? i couldn't leave the lord commander. child, said the other old woman, that old crow's gone before you. look. mormont's head was still in his lap, but his eyes were open and staring and his lips no longer moved. the raven cocked its head and squawked, then looked up at sam. corn? no corn. he has no corn. sam closed the old bear's eyes and tried to think of a prayer, but all that came to mind was, mother have mercy. mother have mercy. mother have mercy. your mother can't help you none, said the old woman on the left. that dead old man can't neither. you take his sword and you take that big warm far cloak o' his and you take his horse if you can find him. and you go. the girl don't lie, the old woman on the right said. she's my girl, and i beat the lying out of her early on. you said you'd help her. do what ferny says, boy. take the girl and be quick about it. quick, the raven said. quick quick quick. where? asked sam, puzzled. where should i take her? someplace warm, the two old women said as one. gilly was crying. me and the babe. please. i'll be your wife, like i was craster's. please, ser crow. he's a boy, just like nella said he'd be. if you don't take him, they will. they? said sam, and the raven cocked its black head and echoed, they they they the boy's brothers, said the old woman on the left. craster's sons. the white cold's rising out there, crow. i can feel it in my bones. these poor old bones don't lie. they'll be here soon, the sons. whitetree, sam thought. please, let this be whitetree. he remembered whitetree. whitetree was on the maps he'd drawn, on their way north. if this village was whitetree, he knew where they were. please, it has to be. he wanted that so badly that he forgot his feet for a little bit, he forgot the ache in his calves and his lower back and the stiff frozen fingers he could scarcely feel. he even forgot about lord mormont and craster and the wights and the others. whitetree, sam prayed, to any god that might be listening. all wildling villages looked much alike, though. a huge weirwood grew in the center of this one... but a white tree did not mean whitetree, necessarily. hadn't the weirwood at whitetree been bigger than this one? maybe he was remembering it wrong. the face carved into the bone pale trunk was long and sad; red tears of dried sap leaked from its eyes. was that how it looked when we came north? sam couldn't recall. around the tree stood a handful of one-room hovels with sod roofs, a longhall built of logs and grown over with moss, a stone well, a sheep fold... but no sheep, nor any people. the wildlings had gone to join mance rayder in the frostfangs, taking all they owned except their houses. sam was thankful for that. night was coming on, and it would be good to sleep beneath a roof for once. he was so tired. it seemed as though he had been walking half his life. his boots were falling to pieces, and all the blisters on his feet had burst and turned to callus, but now he had new blisters under the callus, and his toes were getting frostbitten. but it was either walk or die, sam knew. gilly was still weak from childbirth and carrying the babe besides; she needed the horse more than he did. the second horse had died on them three days out from craster's keep. it was a wonder she lasted that long, poor half -starved thing. sam's weight had probably done for her. they might have tried riding double, but he was afraid the same thing would happen again. it's better that i walk. sam left gilly in the longhall to make a fire while he poked his head into the hovels. she was better at making fires; he could never seem to get the kindling to catch, and the last time he'd tried to strike a spark off flint and steel he managed to cut himself on his knife. gilly bound up the gash for him, but his hand was stiff and sore, even clumsier than it had been before. he knew he should wash the wound and change the binding, but he was afraid to look at it. besides, it was so cold that he hated taking off his gloves. sam did not know what he hoped to find in the empty houses. maybe the wildlings had left some food behind. he had to take a look. jon had searched the huts at whitetree, on their way north. inside one hovel sam heard a rustling of rats from a dark corner, but otherwise there was nothing in any of them but old straw, old smells, and some ashes beneath the smoke hole. he turned back to the weirwood and studied the carved face a moment. it is not the face we saw, he admitted to himself. the tree's not half as big as the one at whitetree. the red eyes wept blood, and he didn't remember that either. clumsily, sam sank to his knees. old gods, hear my prayer. the seven were my father's gods but i said my words to you when i joined the watch. help us now. i fear we might be lost. we're hungry too, and so cold. i don't know what gods i believe in now, but... please, if you're there, help us. gilly has a little son. that was all that he could think to say. the dusk was deepening, the leaves of the weirwood rustling softly, waving like a thousand blood-red hands. whether jon's gods had heard him or not he could not say. by the time he returned to the longhall, gilly had the fire going. she sat close to it with her furs opened, the babe at her breast. he's as hungry as we are, sam thought. the old women had smuggled out food for them from craster's, but they had eaten most of it by now. sam had been a hopeless hunter even at horn hill, where game was plentiful and he had hounds and huntsmen to help him; here in this endless empty forest, the chances of him catching anything were remote. his efforts at fishing the lakes and half- frozen streams had been dismal failures as well. how much longer, sam? gilly asked, is it far, still? not so far. not so far as it was. sam shrugged out of his pack, eased himself awkwardly to the floor, and tried to cross his legs. his back ached so abominably from the walking that he would have liked to lean up against one of the carved wooden pillars that supported the roof, but the fire was in the center of the hall beneath the smoke hole and he craved warmth even more than comfort. another few days should see us there. sam had his maps, but if this wasn't whitetree then they weren't going to be much use. we went too far east to get around that lake, he fretted, or maybe too far west when i tried to double back. he was coming to hate lakes and rivers. up here there was never a ferry or bridge, which meant walking all the way around the lakes and searching for places to ford the rivers. it was easier to follow a game trail than to struggle through the brush, easier to circle a ridge instead of climbing it. if bannen or dywen were with us we'd be at castle black by now, warming our feet in the common room. bannen was dead, though, and dywen gone with grenn and dolorous edd and the others. the wall is three hundred miles long and seven hundred feet high, sam reminded himself. if they kept going south, they had to find it, sooner or later. and he was certain that they had been going south. by day he took directions from the sun, and on clear nights they could follow the ice dragon's tail, though they hadn't traveled much by night since the second horse had died. even when the moon was full it was too dark beneath the trees, and it would have been so easy for sam or the last garron to break a leg. we have to be well south by now, we have to be. what he wasn't so certain of was how far east or west they might have strayed. they would reach the wall, yes... in a day or a fortnight, it couldn't be farther than that, surely, surely... but where? it was the gate at castle black they needed to find; the only way through the wall for a hundred leagues. is the wall as big as craster used to say? gilly asked. bigger. sam tried to sound cheerful. so big you can't even see the castles hidden behind it. but they're there, you'll see. the wall is all ice, but the castles are stone and wood. there are tall towers and deep vaults and a huge longhall with a great fire burning in the hearth, day and night. it's so hot in there, gilly, you'll hardly believe it. could i stand by the fire? me and the boy? not for a long time, just till we're good and warm? you can stand by the fire as long as you like. you'll have food and drink, too. hot mulled wine and a bowl of venison stewed with onions, and hobb's bread right out of the oven, so hot it will burn your fingers. sam peeled a glove off to wriggle his own fingers near the flames, and soon regretted it. they had been numb with cold, but as feeling returned they hurt so much he almost cried. sometimes one of the brothers will sing, he said, to take his mind off the pain. dareon sang best, but they sent him to eastwatch. there's still haider, though. and toad. his real name is todder, but he looks like a toad, so we call him that. he likes to sing, but he has an awful voice. do you sing? gilly rearranged her furs, and she moved the babe from one breast to the other. sam blushed. i... i know some songs. when i was little i liked to sing. i danced too, but my lord father never liked me to. he said if i wanted to prance around i should do it in the yard with a sword in my hand. could you sing some southron song? for the babe? if you like. sam thought for a moment. there's a song our septon used to sing to me and my sisters, when we were little and it was time for us to go to sleep. 'the song of the seven' it's called. he cleared his throat and softly sang: the father's face is stern and strong, he sits and judges right from wrong. he weighs our lives, the short and long, and loves the little children. the mother gives the gift of life, and watches over every wife. her gentle smile ends all strife, and she loves her little children. the warrior stands before the foe, protecting us where e 'er we go. with sword and shield and spear and bow, he guards the little children. the crone is very wise and old, and sees our fates as they unfold. she lifts her lamp of shining gold, to lead the little children. the smith, he labors day and night, to put the world of men to right. with hammer, plow, and fire bright, he builds for little children. the maiden dances through the sky, she lives in every lover 's sigh, her smiles teach the birds to fly, and give dreams to little children. the seven gods who made us all, are listening if we should call. so close your eyes, you shall not fall, they see you, little children, just close your eyes, you shall not fall, they see you, little children. sam remembered the last time he'd sung the song with his mother, to lull baby dickon to sleep. his father had heard their voices and come barging in, angry. i will have no more of that, lord randyll told his wife harshly. you ruined one boy with those soft septon's songs, do you mean to do the same to this babe? then he looked at sam and said, go sing to your sisters, if you must sing. i don't want you near my son. gilly' s babe had gone to sleep. he was such a tiny thing, and so quiet that sam feared for him. he didn't even have a name. he had asked gilly about that, but she said it was bad luck to name a child before he was two. so many of them died. she tucked her nipple back inside her furs. that was pretty, sam. you sing good. you should hear dareon. his voice is sweet as mead. we drank the sweetest mead the day craster made me a wife. it was summer then, and not so cold. gilly gave him a puzzled look. did you only sing of six gods? craster always told us you southrons had seven. seven, he agreed, but no one sings of the stranger. the stranger's face was the face of death. even talking of him made sam uncomfortable. we should eat something. a bite or two. nothing was left but a few black sausages, as hard as wood. sam sawed off a few thin slices for each of them. the effort made his wrist ache, but he was hungry enough to persist. if you chewed the slices long enough they softened up, and tasted good. craster's wives seasoned them with garlic. after they had finished, sam begged her pardon and went out to relieve himself and look after the horse. a biting wind was blowing from the north, and the leaves in the trees rattled at him as he passed. he had to break the thin scum of ice on top of the stream so the horse could get a drink. i had better bring her inside. he did not want to wake up at break of day to find that their horse had frozen to death during the night. gilly would keep going even if that happened. the girl was very brave, not like him. he wished he knew what he was going to do with her back at castle black. she kept saying how she'd be his wife if he wanted, but black brothers didn't keep wives; besides, he was a tarly of horn hill, he could never wed a wildling. i'll have to think of something. so long as we reach the wall alive, the rest doesn't matter, it doesn't matter one little bit. leading the horse to the longhall was simple enough. getting her through the door was not, but sam persisted. gilly was already dozing by the time he got the garron inside. he hobbled the horse in a comer, fed some fresh wood to the fire, took off his heavy cloak, and wriggled down under the furs beside the wildling woman. his cloak was big enough to cover all three of them and keep in the warmth of their bodies. gilly smelled of milk and garlic and musty old fur, but he was used to that by now. they were good smells, so far as sam was concerned. he liked sleeping next to her. it made him remember times long past, when he had shared a huge bed at horn hill with two of his sisters. that had ended when lord randyll decided it was making him soft as a girl. sleeping alone in my own cold cell never made me any harder or braver, though. he wondered what his father would say if he could see him now. i killed one of the others, my lord, he imagined saying. i stabbed him with an obsidian dagger, and my sworn brothers call me sam the slayer now but even in his fancies, lord randyll only scowled, disbelieving. his dreams were strange that night. he was back at horn hill, at the castle, but his father was not there. it was sam's castle now. jon snow was with him. lord mormont too, the old bear, and grenn and dolorous edd and pyp and toad and all his other brothers from the watch, but they wore bright colors instead of black. sam sat at the high table and feasted them all, cutting thick slices off a roast with his father's greatsword heartsbane. there were sweet cakes to eat and honeyed wine to drink, there was singing and dancing, and everyone was warm. when the feast was done he went up to sleep; not to the lord's bedchamber where his mother and father lived but to the room he had once shared with his sisters. only instead of his sisters it was gilly waiting in the huge soft bed, wearing nothing but a big shaggy fur, milk leaking from her breasts. he woke suddenly, in cold and dread. the fire had burned down to smouldering red embers. the air itself seemed frozen, it was so cold. in the comer the garron was whinnying and kicking the logs with her hind legs. gilly sat beside the fire, hugging her babe. sam sat up groggy, his breath puffing pale from his open mouth. the longhall was dark with shadows, black and blacker. the hair on his arms was standing up. it's nothing, he told himself. i'm cold, that's all. then, by the door, one of the shadows moved. a big one. this is still a dream, sam prayed. oh, make it that i'm still asleep, make it a nightmare. he's dead, he's dead, i saw him die. he's come for the babe, gilly wept. he smells him. a babe fresh-born stinks o' life. he's come for the life. the huge dark shape stooped under the lintel, into the hall, and shambled toward them. in the dim light of the fire, the shadow became small paul. go away, sam croaked. we don't want you here. paul's hands were coal, his face was milk, his eyes shone a bitter blue. hoarfrost whitened his beard, and on one shoulder hunched a raven, pecking at his cheek, eating the dead white flesh. sam's bladder let go, and he felt the warmth running down his legs. gilly, calm the horse and lead her out. you do that. you - she started. i have the knife. the dragonglass dagger. he fumbled it out as he got to his feet. he'd given the first knife to grenn, but thankfully he'd remembered to take lord mormont's dagger before fleeing craster's keep. he clutched it tight, moving away from the fire, away from gilly and the babe. paul? he meant to sound brave, but it came out in a squeak. small paul. do you know me? i'm sam, fat sam, sam the scared, you saved me in the woods. you carried me when i couldn't walk another step. no one else could have done that, but you did. sam backed away, knife in hand, sniveling. i am such a coward. don't hurt us, paul. please. why would you want to hurt us? gilly scrabbled backward across the hard dirt floor. the wight turned his head to look at her, but sam shouted no! and he turned back. the raven on his shoulder ripped a strip of flesh from his pale ruined cheek. sam held the dagger before him, breathing like a blacksmith's bellows. across the longhall, gilly reached the garron. gods give me courage, sam prayed. for once, give me a little courage. just long enough for her to get away. small paul moved toward him. sam backed off until he came up against a rough log wall. he clutched the dagger with both hands to hold it steady. the wight did not seem to fear the dragonglass. perhaps he did not know what it was. he moved slowly, but small paul had never been quick even when he'd been alive. behind him, gilly murmured to calm the garron and tried to urge it toward the door. but the horse must have caught a whiff of the wight's queer cold scent. suddenly she balked, rearing, her hooves lashing at the frosty air. paul swung toward the sound, and seemed to lose all interest in sam. there was no time to think or pray or be afraid. samwell tarly threw himself forward and plunged the dagger down into small paul's back. half-turned, the wight never saw him coming. the raven gave a shriek and took to the air. you're dead! sam screamed as he stabbed. you're dead, you're dead. he stabbed and screamed, again and again, tearing huge rents in paul's heavy black cloak. shards of dragonglass flew everywhere as the blade shattered on the iron mail beneath the wool. sam's wail made a white mist in the black air. he dropped the useless hilt and took a hasty step backwards as small paul twisted around. before he could get out his other knife, the steel knife that every brother carried, the wight's black hands locked beneath his chins. paul's fingers were so cold they seemed to burn. they burrowed deep into the soft flesh of sam's throat. run, gilly, run, he wanted to scream, but when he opened his mouth only a choking sound emerged. his fumbling fingers finally found the dagger, but when he slammed it up into the wight's belly the point skidded off the iron links, and the blade went spinning from sam's hand. small paul's fingers tightened inexorably, and began to twist. he's going to rip my head off, sam thought in despair. his throat felt frozen, his lungs on fire. he punched and pulled at the wight's wrists, to no avail. he kicked paul between the legs, uselessly. the world shrank to two blue stars, a terrible crushing pain, and a cold so fierce that his tears froze over his eyes. sam squirmed and pulled, desperate... and then he lurched forward. small paul was big and powerful, but sam still outweighed him, and the wights were clumsy, he had seen that on the fist. the sudden shift sent paul staggering back a step, and the living man and the dead one went crashing down together. the impact knocked one hand from sam's throat, and he was able to suck in a quick breath of air before the icy black fingers returned. the taste of blood filled his mouth. he twisted his neck around, looking for his knife, and saw a dull orange glow. the fire! only ember and ashes remained, but still... he could not breathe, or think... sam wrenched himself sideways, pulling paul with him... his arms flailed against the dirt floor, groping, reaching, scattering the ashes, until at last they found something hot... a chunk of charred wood, smouldering red and orange within the black... his fingers closed around it, and he smashed it into paul's mouth, so hard he felt teeth shatter. yet even so the wight's grip did not loosen. sam's last thoughts were for the mother who had loved him and the father he had failed. the longhall was spinning around him when he saw the wisp of smoke rising from between paul's broken teeth. then the dead man's face burst into flame, and the hands were gone. sam sucked in air, and rolled feebly away. the wight was burning, hoarfrost dripping from his beard as the flesh beneath blackened. sam heard the raven shriek, but paul himself made no sound. when his mouth opened, only flames came out. and his eyes... it's gone, the blue glow is gone. he crept to the door. the air was so cold that it hurt to breathe, but such a fine sweet hurt. he ducked from the longhall. gilly? he called. gilly, i killed it. gil - she stood with her back against the weirwood, the boy in her arms. the wights were all around her. there were a dozen of them, a score, more... some had been wildlings once, and still wore skins and hides... but more had been his brothers. sam saw lark the sisterman, softfoot, ryles. the wen on chett's neck was black, his boils covered with a thin film, of ice. and that one looked like hake, though it was hard to know for certain with half his head missing. they had torn the poor garron apart, and were pulling out her entrails with dripping red hands. pale steam rose from her belly. sam made a whimpery sound. it's not fair... fair. the raven landed on his shoulder. fair, far, fear. it flapped its wings, and screamed along with gilly. the wights were almost on her. he heard the dark red leaves of the weirwood rustling, whispering to one another in a tongue he did not know. the starlight itself seemed to stir, and all around them the trees groaned and creaked. sam tarly turned the color of curdled milk, and his eyes went wide as plates. ravens! they were in the weirwood, hundreds of them, thousands, perched on the bone-white branches, peering between the leaves. he saw their beaks open as they screamed, saw them spread their black wings. shrieking, flapping, they descended on the wights in angry clouds. they swarmed round chett's face and pecked at his blue eyes, they covered the sisterman like flies, they plucked gobbets from inside hake's shattered head. there were so many that when sam looked up, he could not see the moon. go, said the bird on his shoulder. go, go, go. sam ran, puffs of frost exploding from his mouth. all around him the wights flailed at the black wings and sharp beaks that assailed them, falling in an eerie silence with never a grunt nor cry. but the ravens ignored sam. he took gilly by the hand and pulled her away from the weirwood. we have to go. but where? gilly hurried after him, holding her baby. they killed our horse, how will we... brother! the shout cut through the night, through the shrieks of a thousand ravens. beneath the trees, a man muffled head to heels in mottled blacks and greys sat astride an elk. here, the rider called. a hood shadowed his face. he's wearing blacks. sam urged gilly toward him. the elk was huge, a great elk, ten feet tall at the shoulder, with a rack of antlers near as wide. the creature sank to his knees to let them mount. here, the rider said, reaching down with a gloved hand to pull gilly up behind him. then it was sam's turn. my thanks, he puffed. only when he grasped the offered hand did he realize that the rider wore no glove. his hand was black and cold, with fingers hard as stone. he sucks harder than mine. gilly stroked the babe's head as she held him to her nipple. he's hungry, said the blonde woman val, the one the black brothers called the wildling princess. he's lived on goats' milk up to now, and potions from that blind maester. the boy did not have a name yet, no more than gilly's did. that was the wildling way. not even mance rayder's son would get a name till his third year, it would seem, though sam had heard the brothers calling him the little prince and born-in-battle. he watched the child nurse at gilly's breast, and then he watched jon watch, fon is smiling. a sad smile, still, but definitely a smile of sorts. sam was glad to see it. it is the first time i've seen him smile since i got back. they had walked from the nightfort to deep lake, and from deep lake to queensgate, following a narrow track from one castle to the next, never out of sight of the wall. a day and a half from castle black, as they trudged along on callused feet, gilly heard horses behind them, and turned to see a column of black riders coming from the west. my brothers, sam assured her. no one uses this road but the night's watch. it had turned out to be ser denys mallister from the shadow tower, along with the wounded bowen marsh and the survivors from the fight at the bridge of skulls. when sam saw dywen, giant, and dolorous edd tollett, he broke down and wept. it was from them that he learned about the battle beneath the wall. stannis landed his knights at eastwatch, and cotter pyke led him along the ranger's roads, to take the wildlings unawares, giant told him. he smashed them. mance rayder was taken captive, a thousand of his best slain, including harma dogshead. the rest scattered like leaves before a storm, we heard. the gods are good, sam thought. if he had not gotten lost as he made his way south from craster's keep, he and gilly might have walked right into the battle... or into mance rayder's camp, at the very least. that might have been well enough for gilly and the boy, but not for him. sam had heard all the stories about what wildlings did with captured crows. he shuddered. nothing that his brothers told him prepared him for what he found at castle black, however. the common hall had burned to the ground and the great wooden stair was a mound of broken ice and scorched timbers. donalnoye was dead, along with rast, deaf dick, red alyn, and so many more, yet the castle was more crowded than sam had ever seen; not with black brothers, but with the king's soldiers, more than a thousand of them. there was a king in the king's tower for the first time in living memory, and banners flew from the lance, hardin's tower, the grey keep, the shieldhall, and other buildings that had stood empty and abandoned for long years. the big one, the gold with the black stag, that's the royal standard of house baratheon, he told gilly, who had never seen banners before. the fox-and- flowers is house florent. the turtle is estermont, the swordfish is bar emmon, and the crossed trumpets are for wensington. they're all bright as flowers. gilly pointed. i like those yellow ones, with the fire. look, and some of the fighters have the same thing on their blouses. a fiery heart. i don't know whose sigil that is. he found out soon enough. queen's men, pyp told him - after he let out a whoop, and shouted, run and bar the doors, lads, it's sam the slayer come back from the grave, while grenn was hugging sam so hard he thought his ribs might break - but best you don't go asking where the queen is. stannis left her at eastwatch, with their daughter and his fleet. he brought no woman but the red one. the red one? said sam uncertainly. melisandre of asshai, said grenn. the king's sorceress. they say she burned a man alive at dragonstone so stannis would have favorable winds for his voyage north. she rode beside him in the battle too, and gave him his magic sword. lightbringer, they call it. wait till you see it. it glows like it had a piece of sun inside it. he looked at sam again and grinned a big helpless stupid grin. i still can't believe you're here. jon snow had smiled to see him too, but it was a tired smile, like the one he wore now. you made it back after all, he said. and brought gilly out as well. you've done well, sam. jon had done more than well himself, to hear grenn tell it. yet even capturing the horn of winter and a wildling prince had not been enough for ser alliser thorne and his friends, who still named him turncloak. though maester aemon said his wound was healing well, jon bore other scars, deeper than the ones around his eye. he grieves for his wildling girl, and for his brothers. it's strange, he said to sam. craster had no love for mance, nor mance for craster, but now craster's daughter is feeding mance's son. i have the milk, gilly said, her voice soft and shy. mine takes only a little. he's not so greedy as this one. the wildling woman val turned to face them. i've heard the queen's men saying that the red woman means to give mance to the fire, as soon as he is strong enough. jon gave her a weary look. mance is a deserter from the night's watch. the penalty for that is death. if the watch had taken him, he would have been hanged by now, but he's the king's captive, and no one knows the king's mind but the red woman. i want to see him, val said. i want to show him his son. he deserves that much, before you kill him. sam tried to explain. no one is permitted to see him but maester aemon, my lady. if it were in my power, mance could hold his son. jon's smile was gone. i'm sorry, val. he turned away. sam and i have duties to return to. well, sam does, anyway. we'll ask about your seeing mance. that's all i can promise. sam lingered long enough to give gilly' s hand a squeeze and promise to return again after supper. then he hurried after. there were guards outside the door, queen's men with spears. jon was halfway down the steps, but he waited when he heard sam puffing after him. you're more than fond of gilly, aren't you? sam reddened. gilly's good. she's good and kind. he was glad that his long nightmare was done, glad to be back with his brothers at castle black... but some nights, alone in his cell, he thought of how warm gilly had been when they'd curled up beneath the furs with the babe between them. she... she made me braver, jon. not brave, but... braver. you know you cannot keep her, jon said gently, no more than i could stay with ygritte. you said the words, sam, the same as i did. the same as all of us. i know. gilly said she'd be a wife to me, but... i told her about the words, and what they meant. i don't know if that made her sad or glad, but i told her. he swallowed nervously and said, jon, could there be honor in a lie, if it were told for a... a good purpose? it would depend on the lie and the purpose, i suppose. jon looked at sam. i wouldn't advise it. you're not made to lie, sam. you blush and squeak and stammer. i do, said sam, but i could lie in a letter. i'm better with a quill in hand. i had a... a thought. when things are more settled here, i thought maybe the best thing for gilly... i thought i might send her to horn hill. to my mother and sisters and my... my f-f- father. if gilly were to say the babe was m-mine... he was blushing again. my mother would want him, i know. she would find some place for gilly, some kind of service, it wouldn't be as hard as serving craster. and lord r-randyll, he... he would never say so, but he might be pleased to believe i got a bastard on some wildling girl. at least it would prove i was man enough to lie with a woman and father a child. he told me once that i was sure to die a maiden, that no woman would ever... you know... jon, if i did this, wrote this lie... would that be a good thing? the life the boy would have... growing up a bastard in his grandfather's castle? jon shrugged. that depends in great part on your father, and what sort of boy this is. if he takes after you... he won't. craster's his real father. you saw him, he was hard as an old tree stump, and gilly is stronger than she looks. if the boy shows any skill with sword or lance, he should have a place with your father's household guard at the least, jon said. it's not unknown for bastards to be trained as squires and raised to knighthood. but you'd best be sure gilly can play this game convincingly. from what you've told me of lord randyll, i doubt he would take kindly to being deceived. more guards were posted on the steps outside the tower. these were king's men, though; sam had quickly learned the difference. the king's men were as earthy and impious as any other soldiers, but the queen's men were fervid in their devotion to melisandre of asshai and her lord of light. are you going to the practice yard again? sam asked as they crossed the yard. is it wise to train so hard before your leg's done healing? jon shrugged. what else is there for me to do? marsh has removed me from duty, for fear that i'm still a turncloak. it's only a few who believe that, sam assured him. ser alliser and his friends. most of the brothers know better. king stannis knows as well, i'll wager. you brought him the horn of winter and captured mance rayder's son. all i did was protect val and the babe against looters when the wildlings fled, and keep them there until the rangers found us. i never captured anyone. king stannis keeps his men well in hand, that's plain. he lets them plunder some, but i've only heard of three wildling women being raped, and the men who did it have all been gelded. i suppose i should have been killing the free folk as they ran. ser alliser has been putting it about that the only time i bared my sword was to defend our foes. i failed to kill mance rayder because i was in league with him, he says. that's only ser alliser, said sam. everyone knows the sort of man he is. with his noble birth, his knighthood, and his long years in the watch, ser alliser thorne might have been a strong challenger for the lord commander's title, but almost all the men he'd trained during his years as master-at-arms despised him. his name had been offered, of course, but after running a weak sixth on the first day and actually losing votes on the second, thorne had withdrawn to support lord janos slynt. what everyone knows is that ser alliser is a knight from a noble line, and trueborn, while i'm the bastard who killed qhorin halfhand and bedded with a spearwife. the warg, i've heard them call me. how can i be a warg without a wolf, i ask you? his mouth twisted. i don't even dream of ghost anymore. all my dreams are of the crypts, of the stone kings on their thrones. sometimes i hear robb's voice, and my father's, as if they were at a feast. but there's a wall between us, and i know that no place has been set for me. the living have no place at the feasts of the dead. it tore the heart from sam to hold his silence then. bran's not dead, jon, he wanted to stay. he's with friends, and they're going north on a giant elk to find a three-eyed crow in the depths of the haunted forest. it sounded so mad that there were times sam tarly thought he must have dreamt it all, conjured it whole from fever and fear and hunger... but he would have blurted it out anyway, if he had not given his word. three times he had sworn to keep the secret; once to bran himself, once to that strange boy jojen reed, and last of all to coldhands. the world believes the boy is dead, his rescuer had said as they parted. let his bones lie undisturbed. we want no seekers coming after us. swear it, samwell of the night's watch. swear it for the life you owe me. miserable, sam shifted his weight and said, lord janos will never be chosen lord commander. it was the best comfort he had to offer jon, the only comfort. that won't happen. sam, you're a sweet fool. open your eyes. it's been happening for days. jon pushed his hair back out of his eyes and said, i may know nothing, but i know that. now pray excuse me, i need to hit someone very hard with a sword. there was naught that sam could do but watch him stride off toward the armory and the practice yard. that was where jon snow spent most of his waking hours. with ser endrew dead and ser alliser disinterested, castle black had no master-at-arms, so jon had taken it on himself to work with some of the rawer recruits; satin, horse, hop-robin with his clubfoot, arron and emrick and when they had duties, he would train alone for hours with sword and shield and spear, or match himself against anyone who cared to take him on. sam, you're a sweet fool, he could hear jon saying, all the way back to the maester's keep. open your eyes. it's been happening for days. could he be right? a man needed the votes of two-thirds of the sworn brothers to become the lord commander of the night's watch, and after nine days and nine votes no one was even close to that. lord janos had been gaining, true, creeping up past first bowen marsh and then othell yarwyck, but he was still well behind ser denys mallister of the shadow tower and cotter pyke of eastwatch-by-the-sea. one of them will be the new lord commander, surely, sam told himself. stannis had posted guards outside the maester's door too. within, the rooms were hot and crowded with the wounded from the battle; black brothers, king's men, and queen's men, all three. clydas was shuffling amongst them with flagons of goats' milk and dreamwine, but maester aemon had not yet returned from his morning call on mance rayder. sam hung his cloak upon a peg and went to lend a hand. but even as he fetched and poured and changed dressings, jon's words nagged at him. sam, you're a sweet fool. open your eyes. it's been happening for days. it was a good hour before he could excuse himself to feed the ravens. on the way up to the rookery, he stopped to check the tally he had made of last night's count. at the start of the choosing, more than thirty names had been offered, but most had withdrawn once it became clear they could not win. seven remained as of last night. ser denys mallister had collected two hundred and thirteen tokens, cotter pyke one hundred and eighty-seven, lord slynt seventy- four, othell yarwyck sixty, bowen marsh forty-nine, three-finger hobb five, and dolorous edd tollett one. pyp and his stupid japes. sam shuffled through the earlier counts. ser denys, cotter pyke, and bowen marsh had all been falling since the third day, othell yarwyck since the sixth. only lord janos slynt was climbing, day after day after day. he could hear the birds quorking in the rookery, so he put the papers away and climbed the steps to feed them. three more ravens had come in, he saw with pleasure. snow, they cried at him. snow, snow, snow he had taught them that. even with the newcomers, the ravenry seemed dismally empty. few of the birds that aemon had sent off had returned as yet. one reached stannis, though. one found dragonstone, and a king who still cared. a thousand leagues south, sam knew, his father had joined house tarly to the cause of the boy on the iron throne, but neither king joffrey nor little king tommen had bestirred himself when the watch cried out for help. what good is a king who will not defend his realm? he thought angrily, remembering the night on the fist of the first men and the terrible trek to craster's keep through darkness, fear, and falling snow. the queen's men made him uneasy, it was true, but at least they had come. that night at supper sam looked for jon snow, but did not see him anywhere in the cavernous stone vault where the brothers now took their meals. he finally took a place on the bench near his other friends. pyp was telling dolorous edd about the contest they'd had to see which of the straw soldiers could collect the most wildling arrows. you were leading most of the way, but watt of long lake got three in the last day and passed you. i never win anything, dolorous edd complained. the gods always smiled on watt, though. when the wildlings knocked him off the bridge of skulls, somehow he landed in a nice deep pool of water. how lucky was that, missing all those rocks? was it a long fall? grenn wanted to know. did landing in the pool of water save his life? no, said dolorous edd. he was dead already, from that axe in his head. still, it was pretty lucky, missing the rocks. three-finger hobb had promised the brothers roast haunch of mammoth that night, maybe in hopes of cadging a few more votes. if that was his notion, he should have found a younger mammoth, sam thought, as he pulled a string of gristle out from between his teeth. sighing, he pushed the food away. there would be another vote shortly, and the tensions in the air were thicker than the smoke. cotter pyke sat by the fire, surrounded by rangers from eastwatch. ser denys mallister was near the door with a smaller group of shadow tower men. janos slynt has the best place, sam realized, halfway between the flames and the drafts. he was alarmed to see bowen marsh beside him, wan- faced and haggard, his head still wrapped in linen, but listening to all that lord janos had to say. when he pointed that out to his friends, pyp said, and look down there, that's ser alliser whispering with othell yarwyck. after the meal maester aemon rose to ask if any of the brothers wished to speak before they cast their tokens. dolorous edd got up, stone-faced and glum as ever. i just want to say to whoever is voting for me that i would certainly make an awful lord commander. but so would all these others. he was followed by bowen marsh, who stood with one hand on lord slynt's shoulder. brothers and friends, i am asking that my name be withdrawn from this choosing. my wound still troubles me, and the task is too large for me, i fear... but not for lord janos here, who commanded the gold cloaks of king's landing for many years. let us all give him our support. sam heard angry mutters from cotter pyke's end of the room, and ser denys looked at one of his companions and shook his head. it is too late, the damage is done. he wondered where jon was, and why he had stayed away. most of the brothers were unlettered, so by tradition the choosing was done by dropping tokens into a big potbellied iron kettle that three-finger hobb and owen the oaf had dragged over from the kitchens. the barrels of tokens were off in a comer behind a heavy drape, so the voters could make their choice unseen. you were allowed to have a friend cast your token if you had duty, so some men took two tokens, three, or four, and ser denys and cotter pyke voted for the garrisons they had left behind. when the hall was finally empty, save for them, sam and clydas upended the kettle in front of maester aemon. a cascade of seashells, stones, and copper pennies covered the table. aemon' s wrinkled hands sorted with surprising speed, moving the shells here, the stones there, the pennies to one side, the occasional arrowhead, nail, and acorn off to themselves. sam and clydas counted the piles, each of them keeping his own tally. tonight it was sam's turn to give his results first. two hundred and three for ser denys mallister, he said. one hundred and sixty-nine for cotter pyke. one hundred and thirty-seven for lord janos slynt, seventy-two for othell yarwyck, five for three-finger hobb, and two for dolorous edd. i had one hundred and sixty-eight for pyke, clydas said. we are two votes short by my count, and one by sam's. sam's count is correct, said maester aemon. jon snow did not cast a token. it makes no matter. no one is close. sam was more relieved than disappointed. even with bowen marsh's support, lord janos was still only third. who are these five who keep voting for three-finger hobb? he wondered. brothers who want him out of the kitchens? said clydas. ser denys is down ten votes since yesterday, sam pointed out. and cotter pyke is down almost twenty. that's not good. not good for their hopes of becoming lord commander, certainly, said maester aemon. yet it may be good for the night's watch, in the end. that is not for us to say. ten days is not unduly long. there was once a choosing that lasted near two years, some seven hundred votes. the brothers will come to a decision in their own time. yes, sam thought, but what decision? later, over cups of watered wine in the privacy of pyp's cell, sam's tongue loosened and he found himself thinking aloud. cotter pyke and ser denys mallister have been losing ground, but between them they still have almost two-thirds, he told pyp and grenn. either one would be fine as lord commander. someone needs to convince one of them to withdraw and support the other. someone? said grenn, doubtfully. what someone? grenn is so dumb he thinks someone might be him, said pyp. maybe when someone is done with pyke and mallister, he should convince king stannis to marry queen cersei too. king stannis is married, grenn objected. what am i going to do with him, sam? sighed pyp. cotter pyke and ser denys don't like each other much, grenn argued stubbornly. they fight about everything. yes, but only because they have different ideas about what's best for the watch, said sam. if we explained - we? said pyp. how did someone change to we? i'm the mummer's monkey, remember? and grenn is, well, grenn. he smiled at sam, and wiggled his ears. you, now... you're a lord's son, and the maester's steward... and sam the slayer, said grenn. you slew an other. it was the dragonglass that killed it, sam told him for the hundredth time. a lord's son, the maester's steward, and sam the slayer, pyp mused. you could talk to them, might be... i could, said sam, sounding as gloomy as dolorous edd, if i wasn't too craven to face them. the king was angry. sam saw that at once. as the black brothers entered one by one and knelt before him, stannis shoved away his breakfast of hardbread, salt beef, and boiled eggs, and eyed them coldly. beside him, the red woman melisandre looked as if she found the scene amusing. i have no place here, sam thought anxiously, when her red eyes fell upon him. someone had to help maester aemon up the steps. don't look at me, i'm just the maester's steward. the others were contenders for the old bear's command, all but bowen marsh, who had withdrawn from the contest but remained castellan and lord steward. sam did not understand why melisandre should seem so interested in him. king stannis kept the black brothers on their knees for an extraordinarily long time. rise, he said at last. sam gave maester aemon his shoulder to help him back up. the sound of lord janos slynt clearing his throat broke the strained silence. your grace, let me say how pleased we are to be summoned here. when i saw your banners from the wall, i knew the realm was saved. 'there comes a man who neer forgets his duty' i said to good ser alliser. 'a strong man, and a true king.' may i congratulate you on your victory over the savages? the singers will make much of it, i know - the singers may do as they like, stannis snapped. spare me your fawning, janos, it will not serve you. he rose to his feet and frowned at them all. lady melisandre tells me that you have not yet chosen a lord commander. i am displeased. how much longer must this folly last? sire, said bowen marsh in a defensive tone, no one has achieved two-thirds of the vote yet. it has only been ten days. nine days too long. i have captives to dispose of, a realm to order, a war to fight. choices must be made, decisions that involve the wall and the night's watch. by rights your lord commander should have a voice in those decisions. he should, yes, said janos slynt. but it must be said. we brothers are only simple soldiers. soldiers, yes! and your grace will know that soldiers are most comfortable taking orders. they would benefit from your royal guidance, it seems to me. for the good of the realm. to help them choose wisely. the suggestion outraged some of the others. do you want the king to wipe our arses for us too? said cotter pyke angrily. the choice of a lord commander belongs to the sworn brothers, and to them alone, insisted ser denys mallister. if they choose wisely they won't be choosing me, moaned dolorous edd. maester aemon, calm as always, said, your grace, the night's watch has been choosing its own leader since brandon the builder raised the wall. through jeor mormont we have had nine hundred and ninety-seven lords commander in unbroken succession, each chosen by the men he would lead, a tradition many thousands of years old. stannis ground his teeth. it is not my wish to tamper with your rights and traditions. as to royal guidance, janos, if you mean that i ought to tell your brothers to choose you, have the courage to say so. that took lord janos aback. he smiled uncertainly and began to sweat, but bowen marsh beside him said, who better to command the black cloaks than a man who once commanded the gold, sire? any of you, i would think. even the cook. the look the king gave slynt was cold. janos was hardly the first gold cloak ever to take a bribe, i grant you, but he may have been the first commander to fatten his purse by selling places and promotions. by the end he must have had half the officers in the city watch paying him part of their wages. isn't that so, janos? slynt's neck was purpling. lies, all lies! a strong man makes enemies, your grace knows that, they whisper lies behind your back. naught was ever proven, not a man came forward... two men who were prepared to come forward died suddenly on their rounds. stannis narrowed his eyes. do not trifle with me, my lord. i saw the proof jon arryn laid before the small council. if i had been king you would have lost more than your office, i promise you, but robert shrugged away your little lapses. 'they all steal' i recall him saying. 'better a thief we know than one we don't, the next man might be worse.' lord petyr's words in my brother's mouth, i'll warrant. littlefinger had a nose for gold, and i'm certain he arranged matters so the crown profited as much from your corruption as you did yourself. lord slynt's jowls were quivering, but before he could frame a further protest maester aemon said, your grace, by law a man's past crimes and transgressions are wiped clean when he says his words and becomes a sworn brother of the night's watch. i am aware of that. if it happens that lord janos here is the best the night's watch can offer, i shall grit my teeth and choke him down. it is naught to me which man of you is chosen, so long as you make a choice. we have a war to fight. your grace, said ser denys mallister, in tones of wary courtesy. if you are speaking of the wildlings... i am not. and you know that, ser. and you must know that whilst we are thankful for the aid you rendered us against mance rayder, we can offer you no help in your contest for the throne. the night's watch takes no part in the wars of the seven kingdoms. for eight thousand years - i know your history, ser denys, the king said brusquely. i give you my word, i shall not ask you to lift your swords against any of the rebels and usurpers who plague me. i do expect that you will continue to defend the wall as you always have. we'll defend the wall to the last man, said cotter pyke. probably me, said dolorous edd, in a resigned tone. stannis crossed his arms. i shall require a few other things from you as well. things that you may not be so quick to give. i want your castles. and i want the gift. those blunt words burst among the black brothers like a pot of wildfire tossed onto a brazier. marsh, mallister, and pyke all tried to speak at once. king stannis let them talk. when they were done, he said, i have three times the men you do. i can take the lands if i wish, but i would prefer to do this legally, with your consent. the gift was given to the night's watch in perpetuity, your grace, bowen marsh insisted. which means it cannot be lawfully seized, attainted, or taken from you. but what was given once can be given again. what will you do with the gift? demanded cotter pyke. make better use of it than you have. as to the castles, eastwatch, castle black, and the shadow tower shall remain yours. garrison them as you always have, but i must take the others for my garrisons if we are to hold the wall. you do not have the men, objected bowen marsh. some of the abandoned castles are scarce more than ruins, said othell yarwyck, the first builder. ruins can be rebuilt. rebuilt? yarwyck said. but who will do the work? that is my concern. i shall require a list from you, detailing the present state of every castle and what might be required to restore it. i mean to have them all garrisoned again within the year, and nightfires burning before their gates. nightfires? bowen marsh gave melisandre an uncertain look. we're to light nightfires now? you are. the woman rose in a swirl of scarlet silk, her long copperbright hair tumbling about her shoulders. swords alone cannot hold this darkness back. only the light of the lord can do that. make no mistake, good sers and valiant brothers, the war we've come to fight is no petty squabble over lands and honors. ours is a war for life itself, and should we fail the world dies with us. the officers did not know how to take that, sam could see. bowen marsh and othell yarwyck exchanged a doubtful look, janos slynt was fuming, and three-finger hobb looked as though he would sooner be back chopping carrots. but all of them seemed surprised to hear maester aemon murmur, it is the war for the dawn you speak of, my lady. but where is the prince that was promised? he stands before you, melisandre declared, though you do not have the eyes to see. stannis baratheon is azor ahai come again, the warrior of fire. in him the prophecies are fulfilled. the red comet blazed across the sky to herald his coming, and he bears lightbringer, the red sword of heroes. her words seemed to make the king desperately uncomfortable, sam saw. stannis ground his teeth, and said, you called and i came, my lords. now you must live with me, or die with me. best get used to that. he made a brusque gesture. that's all. maester, stay a moment. and you, tarly. the rest of you may go. me? sam thought, stricken, as his brothers were bowing and making their way out. what does he want with me? you are the one that killed the creature in the snow, king stannis said, when only the four of them remained. sam the slayer. melisandre smiled. sam felt his face turning red. no, my lady. your grace. i mean, i am, yes. i'm samwell tarly, yes. your father is an able soldier, king stannis said. he defeated my brother once, at ashford. mace tyrell has been pleased to claim the honors for that victory, but lord randyll had decided matters before tyrell ever found the battlefield. he slew lord cafferen with that great valyrian sword of his and sent his head to aerys. the king rubbed his jaw with a finger. you are not the sort of son i would expect such a man to have. i... i am not the sort of son he wanted, sire. if you had not taken the black, you would make a useful hostage, stannis mused. he has taken the black, sire, maester aemon pointed out. i am well aware of that, the king said. i am aware of more than you know, aemon targaryen. the old man inclined his head. i am only aemon, sire. we give up our house names when we forge our maester' s chains. the king gave that a curt nod, as if to say he knew and did not care. you slew this creature with an obsidian dagger, i am told, he said to sam. y-yes, your grace. jon snow gave it to me. dragonglass. the red woman's laugh was music. frozen fire, in the tongue of old valyria. small wonder it is anathema to these cold children of the other. on dragonstone, where i had my seat, there is much of this obsidian to be seen in the old tunnels beneath the mountain, the king told sam. chunks of it, boulders, ledges. the great part of it was black, as i recall, but there was some green as well, some red, even purple. i have sent word to ser rolland my castellan to begin mining it. i will not hold dragonstone for very much longer, i fear, but perhaps the lord of light shall grant us enough frozen fire to arm ourselves against these creatures, before the castle falls. sam cleared his throat. s-sire. the dagger... the dragonglass only shattered when i tried to stab a wight. melisandre smiled. necromancy animates these wights, yet they are still only dead flesh. steel and fire will serve for them. the ones you call the others are something more. demons made of snow and ice and cold, said stannis baratheon. the ancient enemy. the only enemy that matters. he considered sam again. i am told that you and this wildling girl passed beneath the wall, through some magic gate. the b-black gate, sam stammered. below the nightfort. the nightfort is the largest and oldest of the castles on the wall, the king said. that is where i intend to make my seat, whilst i fight this war. you will show me this gate. i, said sam, i w-will, if... if it is still there. if it will open for a man not of the black. if... you will, snapped stannis. i shall tell you when. maester aemon smiled. your grace, he said, before we go, i wonder if you would do us the great honor of showing us this wondrous blade we have all heard so very much of. you want to see lightbringer? a blind man? sam shall be my eyes. the king frowned. everyone else has seen the thing, why not a blind man? his swordbelt and scabbard hung from a peg near the hearth. he took the belt down and drew the longsword out. steel scraped against wood and leather, and radiance filled the solar; shimmering, shifting, a dance of gold and orange and red light, all the bright colors of fire. tell me, samwell. maester aemon touched his arm. it glows, said sam, in a hushed voice. as if it were on fire. there are no flames, but the steel is yellow and red and orange, all flashing and glimmering, like sunshine on water, but prettier. i wish you could see it, maester. i see it now, sam. a sword full of sunlight. so lovely to behold. the old man bowed stiffly. your grace. my lady. this was most kind of you. when king stannis sheathed the shining sword, the room seemed to grow very dark, despite the sunlight streaming through the window. very well, you've seen it. you may return to your duties now. and remember what i said. your brothers will chose a lord commander tonight, or i shall make them wish they had. maester aemon was lost in thought as sam helped him down the narrow turnpike stair. but as they were crossing the yard, he said, i felt no heat. did you, sam? heat? from the sword? he thought back. the air around it was shimmering, the way it does above a hot brazier. yet you felt no heat, did you? and the scabbard that held this sword, it is wood and leather, yes? i heard the sound when his grace drew out the blade. was the leather scorched, sam? did the wood seem burnt or blackened? no, sam admitted. not that i could see. maester aemon nodded. back in his own chambers, he asked sam to set a fire and help him to his chair beside the hearth, it is hard to be so old, he sighed as he settled onto the cushion. and harder still to be so blind. i miss the sun. and books. i miss books most of all. aemon waved a hand. i shall have no more need of you till the choosing. the choosing... maester, isn't there something you could do? what the king said of lord janos... i recall, maester aemon said, but sam, i am a maester, chained and sworn. my duty is to counsel the lord commander, whoever he might be. it would not be proper for me to be seen to favor one contender over another. i'm not a maester, said sam. could i do something? aemon turned his blind white eyes toward sam's face, and smiled softy. why, i don't know, samwell. could you? i could, sam thought. i have to. he had to do it right away, too. if he hesitated he was certain to lose his courage. i am a man of the night's watch, he reminded himself as he hurried across the yard. i am. i can do this. there had been a time when he had quaked and squeaked if lord mormont so much as looked at him, but that was the old sam, before the fist of the first men and craster's keep, before the wights and coldhands, and the other on his dead horse. he was braver now. gilly made me braver, he'd told jon. it was true. it had to be true. cotter pyke was the scarier of the two commanders, so sam went to him first, while his courage was still hot. he found him in the old shieldhall, dicing with three of his eastwatch men and a red-headed sergeant who had come from dragonstone with stannis. when sam begged leave to speak with him, though, pyke barked an order, and the others took the dice and coins and left them. no man would ever call cotter pyke handsome, though the body under his studded brigantine and roughspun breeches was lean and hard and wiry strong. his eyes were small and close-set, his nose broken, his widow's peak as sharply pointed as the head of a spear. the pox had ravaged his face badly, and the beard he'd grown to hide the scars was thin and scraggly. sam the slayer! he said, by way of greeting. are you sure you stabbed an other, and not some child's snow knight? this isn't starting well, it was the dragonglass that killed it, my lord, sam explained feebly. aye, no doubt. well, out with it, slayer. did the maester send you to me? the maester? sam swallowed. i... i just left him, my lord. that wasn't truly a lie, but if pyke chose to read it wrong, it might make him more inclined to listen. sam took a deep breath and launched into his plea. pyke cut him off before he'd said twenty words. you want me to kneel down and kiss the hem of mallister's pretty cloak, is that it? i might have known. you lordlings all flock like sheep. well, tell aemon that he's wasted your breath and my time. if anyone withdraws it should be mallister. the man's too bloody old for the job, maybe you ought to go tell him that. we choose him, and we're like to be back here in a year, choosing someone else. he's old, sam agreed, but he's well ex-experienced. at sitting in his tower and fussing over maps, maybe. what does he plan to do, write letters to the wights? he's a knight, well and good, but he's not a fighter, and i don't give a kettle of piss who he unhorsed in some fool tourney fifty years ago. the halfhand fought all his battles, even an old blind man should see that. and we need a fighter more than ever with this bloody king on top of us. today it's ruins and empty fields, well and good, but what will his grace want come the morrow? you think mallister has the belly to stand up to stannis baratheon and that red bitch? he laughed. i don't. you won't support him, then? said sam, dismayed. are you sam the slayer or deaf dick? no, i won't support him. pyke jabbed a finger at his face. understand this, boy. i don't want the bloody job, and never did. i fight best with a deck beneath me, not a horse, and castle black is too far from the sea. but i'll be buggered with a red- hot sword before i turn the night's watch over to that preening eagle from the shadow tower. and you can run back to the old man and tell him i said so, if he asks. he stood. get out of my sight. it took all the courage sam had left in him to say, w-what if there was someone else? could you s-support someone else? who? bowen marsh? the man counts spoons. otheips a follower, does what he's told and does it well, but no more'n that. slynt... well, his men like him, i'll grant you, and it would almost be worth it to stick him down the royal craw and see if stannis gagged, but no. there's too much of king's landing in that one. a toad grows wings and thinks he's a bloody dragon. pyke laughed. who does that leave, hobb? we could pick him, i suppose, only then who's going to boil your mutton, slayer? you look like a man who likes his bloody mutton. there was nothing more to say. defeated, sam could only stammer out his thanks and take his leave. i will do better with ser denys, he tried to tell himself as he walked through the castle. ser denys was a knight, highborn and well-spoken, and he had treated sam most courteously when he'd found him and gilly on the road. ser denys will listen to me, he has to. the commander of the shadow tower had been born beneath the booming tower of seagard, and looked every inch a mallister. sable trimmed his collar and accented the sleeves of his black velvet doublet. a silver eagle fastened its claws in the gathered folds of his cloak. his beard was white as snow, his hair was largely gone, and his face was deeply lined, it was true. yet he still had grace in his movements and teeth in his mouth, and the years had dimmed neither his blue- grey eyes nor his courtesy. my lord of tarry, he said, when his steward brought sam to him in the lance, where the shadow tower men were staying. i am pleased to see that you've recovered from your ordeal. might i offer you a cup of wine? your lady mother is a flo rent, i recall. one day i must tell you about the time i unhorsed both of your grandfathers in the same tourney. not today, though, i know we have more pressing concerns. you come from maester aemon, to be sure. does he have counsel to offer me? sam took a sip of wine, and chose his words with care. a maester chained and sworn... it would not be proper for him to be seen as having influenced the choice of lord commander... the old knight smiled. which is why he has not come to me himself. yes, i quite understand, samwell. aemon and i are both old men, and wise in such matters. say what you came to say. the wine was sweet, and ser denys listened to sam's plea with grave courtesy, unlike cotter pyke. but when he was done, the old knight shook his head. i agree that it would be a dark day in our history if a king were to name our lord commander. this king especially. he is not like to keep his crown for long. but truly, samwell, it ought to be pyke who withdraws. i have more support than he does, and i am better suited to the office. you are, sam agreed, but cotter pyke might serve. it's said he has oft proved himself in battle. he did not mean to offend ser denys by praising his rival, but how else could he convince him to withdraw? many of my brothers have proved themselves in battle. it is not enough. some matters cannot be settled with a battleaxe. maester aemon will understand that, though cotter pyke does not. the lord commander of the night's watch is a lord, first and foremost. he must be able to treat with other lords... and with kings as well. he must be a man worthy of respect. ser denys leaned forward. we are the sons of great lords, you and i. we know the importance of birth, blood, and that early training that can ne'er be replaced. i was a squire at twelve, a knight at eighteen, a champion at two-and-twenty. i have been the commander at the shadow tower for thirty-three years. blood, birth, and training have fitted me to deal with kings. pyke... well, did you hear him this morning, asking if his grace would wipe his bottom? samwell, it is not my habit to speak unkindly of my brothers, but let us be frank... the ironborn are a race of pirates and thieves, and cotter pyke was raping and murdering when he was still half a boy. maester harmune reads and writes his letters, and has for years. no, loath as i am to disappoint maester aemon, i could not in honor stand aside for pyke of eastwatch. this time sam was ready. might you for someone else? if it was someone more suitable? ser denys considered a moment. i have never desired the honor for its own sake. at the last choosing, i stepped aside gratefully when lord mormont's name was offered, just as i had for lord qorgyle at the choosing before that. so long as the night's watch remains in good hands, i am content. but bo wen marsh is not equal to the task, no more than othell yarwyck. and this so-called lord of harrenhal is a butcher's whelp upjumped by the lannisters. small wonder he is venal and corrupt. there's another man, sam blurted out. lord commander mormont trusted him. so did donal noye and qhorin halfhand. though he's not as highly born as you, he comes from old blood. he was castle-born and castle-raised, and he learned sword and lance from a knight and letters from a maester of the citadel. his father was a lord, and his brother a king. ser denys stroked his long white beard. mayhaps, he said, after a long moment. he is very young, but... mayhaps. he might serve, i grant you, though i would be more suitable. i have no doubt of that. i would be the wiser choice. jon said there could be honor in a lie, if it were told for the right reason. sam said, if we do not choose a lord commander tonight, king stannis means to name cotter pyke. he said as much to maester aemon this morning, after all of you had left. i see. ser denys rose. i must think on this. thank you, samwell. and give my thanks to maester aemon as well. sam was trembling by the time he left the lance. what have i done? he thought. what have i said? if they caught him in his lie, they would... what? send me to the wall? rip my entrails out? turn me into a wight? suddenly it all seemed absurd. how could he be so frightened of cotter pyke and ser denys mallister, when he had seen a raven eating small paul's face? pyke was not pleased by his return. you again? make it quick, you are starting to annoy me. i only need a moment more, sam promised. you won't withdraw for ser denys, you said, but you might for someone else. who is it this time, slayer? you? no. a fighter. donal noye gave him the wall when the wildlings came, and he was the old bear's squire. the only thing is, he's bastard-born. cotter pyke laughed. bloody hell. that would shove a spear up mallister's arse, wouldn't it? might be worth it just for that. how bad could the boy be? he snorted. i'd be better, though. i'm what's needed, any fool can see that. any fool, sam agreed, even me. but... well, i shouldn't be telling you, but... king stannis means to force ser denys on us, if we do not choose a man tonight. i heard him tell maester aemon that, after the rest of you were sent away. 