the invitation seemed innocent enough, but every time sansa read it her tummy tightened into a knot. she's to be queen now, she's beautiful and rich and everyone loves her, why would she want to sup with a traitor's daughter- it could be curiosity, she supposed; perhaps margaery tyrell wanted to get the measure of the rival she'd displaced. does she resent me, i wonder? does she think i bear her ill will... sansa had watched from the castle walls as margaery tyrell and her escort made their way up aegon's high hill. joffrey had met his new bride-to-be at the king's gate to welcome her to the city, and they rode side by side through cheering crowds, jo ff glittering in gilded armor and the tyrell girl splendid in green with a cloak of autumn flowers blowing from her shoulders. she was sixteen, brown-haired and brown-eyed, slender and beautiful. the people called out her name as she passed, held up their children for her blessing, and scattered flowers under the hooves of her horse. her mother and grandmother followed close behind, riding in a tall wheelhouse whose sides were carved into the shape of a hundred twining roses, every one gilded and shining. the smallfolk cheered them as well. the same smallfolk who pulled me from my horse and would have killed me, if not for the hound. sansa had done nothing to make the commons hate her, no more than margaery tyrell had done to win their love. does she want me to love her too? she studied the invitation, which looked to be written in margaery' s own hand. does she want my blessing? sansa wondered if joffrey knew of this supper. for all she knew, it might be his doing. that thought made her fearful. if jo ff was behind the invitation, he would have some cruel jape planned to shame her in the older girl's eyes. would he command his kingsguard to strip her naked once again? the last time he had done that his uncle tyrion had stopped him, but the imp could not save her now. no one can save me but my florian. ser dontos had promised he would help her escape, but not until the night of joffrey's wedding. the plans had been well laid, her dear devoted knight- turned-fool assured her; there was nothing to do until then but endure, and count the days. and sup with my replacement... perhaps she was doing margaery tyrell an injustice. perhaps the invitation was no more than a simple kindness, an act of courtesy. it might be just a supper. but this was the red keep, this was king's landing, this was the court of king joffrey baratheon, the first of his name, and if there was one thing that sansa stark had learned here, it was mistrust. even so, she must accept. she was nothing now, the discarded daughter of a traitor and disgraced sister of a rebel lord. she could scarcely refuse joffrey's queen-to-be. i wish the hound were here. the night of the battle, sandor clegane had come to her chambers to take her from the city, but sansa had refused. sometimes she lay awake at night, wondering if she'd been wise. she had his stained white cloak hidden in a cedar chest beneath her summer silks. she could not say why she'd kept it. the hound had turned craven, she heard it said; at the height of the battle, he got so drunk the imp had to take his men. but sansa understood. she knew the secret of his burned face. it was only the fire he feared. that night, the wildfire had set the river itself ablaze, and filled the very air with green flame. even in the castle, sansa had been afraid. outside... she could scarcely imagine it. sighing, she got out quill and ink, and wrote margaery tyrell a gracious note of acceptance. when the appointed night arrived, another of the kingsguard came for her, a man as different from sandor clegane as... well, as a qower from a dog. the sight of ser loras tyrell standing on her threshold made sansa 's heart beat a little faster. this was the first time she had been so close to him since he had returned to king's landing, leading the vanguard of his father's host. for a moment she did not know what to say. ser loras, she finally managed, you... you look so lovely. he gave her a puzzled smile. my lady is too kind. and beautiful besides. my sister awaits you eagerly. i have so looked forward to our supper. as has margaery, and my lady grandmother as well. he took her arm and led her toward the steps. your grandmother? sansa was finding it hard to walk and talk and think all at the same time, with ser loras touching her arm. she could feel the warmth of his hand through the silk. lady olenna. she is to sup with you as well. oh, said sansa. i am talking to him, and he's touching me, he's holding my arm and touching me. the queen of thorns, she's called. isn't that right? it is. ser loras laughed. he has the warmest laugh, she thought as he went on, you'd best not use that name in her presence, though, or you're like to get pricked. sansa reddened. any fool would have realized that no woman would be happy about being called the queen of thorns. maybe i truly am as stupid as cersei lannister says. desperately she tried to think of something clever and charming to say to him, but her wits had deserted her. she almost told him how beautiful he was, until she remembered that she'd already done that. he was beautiful, though. he seemed taller than he'd been when she'd first met him, but still so lithe and graceful, and sansa had never seen another boy with such wonderful eyes. he's no boy, though, he's a man grown, a knight of the kingsguard. she thought he looked even finer in white than in the greens and golds of house tyrell. the only spot of color on him now was the brooch that clasped his cloak; the rose of highgarden wrought in soft yellow gold, nestled in a bed of delicate green jade leaves. ser balon swann held the door of maegor's for them to pass. he was all in white as well, though he did not wear it half so well as ser loras. beyond the spiked moat, two dozen men were taking their practice with sword and shield. with the castle so crowded, the outer ward had been given over to guests to raise their tents and pavilions, leaving only the smaller inner yards for training. one of the redwyne twins was being driven backward by ser tallad, with the eyes on his shield. chunky ser kennos of kayce, who chuffed and puffed every time he raised his longsword, seemed to be holding his own against osney kettleblack, but osney's brother ser osfryd was savagely punishing the frog-faced squire morros slynt. blunted swords or no, slynt would have a rich crop of bruises by the morrow. it made sansa wince just to watch. they have scarcely finished burying the dead from the last battle, and already they are practicing for the next one. on the edge of the yard, a lone knight with a pair of golden roses on his shield was holding off three foes. even as they watched, he caught one of them alongside the head, knocking him senseless. is that your brother? sansa asked. it is, my lady, said ser loras. garlan often trains against three men, or even four. in battle it is seldom one against one, he says, so he likes to be prepared. he must be very brave. he is a great knight, ser loras replied. a better sword than me, in truth, though i'm the better lance. i remember, said sansa. you ride wonderfully, ser. my lady is gracious to say so. when has she seen me ride? at the hand's tourney, don't you remember? you rode a white courser, and your armor was a hundred different kinds of flowers. you gave me a rose. a red rose. you threw white roses to the other girls that day. it made her flush to speak of it. you said no victory was half as beautiful as me. ser loras gave her a modest smile. i spoke only a simple truth, that any man with eyes could see. he doesn't remember, sansa realized, startled. he is only being kind to me, he doesn't remember me or the rose or any of it. she had been so certain that it meant something, that it meant everything. a red rose, not a white. it was after you unhorsed ser robar royce, she said, desperately. he took his hand from her arm. i slew robar at storm's end, my lady. it was not a boast; he sounded sad. him, and another of king renly's rainbow guard as well, yes. sansa had heard the women talking of it round the well, but for a moment she'd forgotten. that was when lord renly was killed, wasn't it? how terrible for your poor sister. for margaery? his voice was tight. to be sure. she was at bitterbridge, though. she did not see. even so, when she heard... ser loras brushed the hilt of his sword lightly with his hand. its grip was white leather, its pommel a rose in alabaster. renly is dead. robar as well. what use to speak of them? the sharpness in his tone took her aback. i... my lord, i... i did not mean to give offense, ser. nor could you, lady sansa, ser loras replied, but all the warmth had gone from his voice. nor did he take her arm again. they ascended the serpentine steps in a deepening silence. oh, why did i have to mention ser robar? sansa thought. i've ruined everything. he is angry with me now she tried to think of something she might say to make amends, but all the words that came to her were lame and weak. be quiet, or you will only make it worse, she told herself. lord mace tyrell and his entourage had been housed behind the royal sept, in the long slate- roofed keep that had been called the maidenvault since king baelor the blessed had confined his sisters therein, so the sight of them might not tempt him into carnal thoughts. outside its tall carved doors stood two guards in gilded halfhelms and green cloaks edged in gold satin, the golden rose of highgarden sewn on their breasts. both were seven-footers, wide of shoulder and narrow of waist, magnificently muscled. when sansa got close enough to see their faces, she could not tell one from the other. they had the same strong jaws, the same deep blue eyes, the same thick red mustaches. who are they? she asked ser loras, her discomfort forgotten for a moment. my grandmother's personal guard, he told her. their mother named them erryk and arryk, but grandmother can't tell them apart, so she calls them left and right.,, left and right opened the doors, and margaery tyrell herself emerged and swept down the short flight of steps to greet them. lady sansa, she called, i'm so pleased you came. be welcome. sansa knelt at the feet of her future queen. you do me great honor, your grace. won't you call me margaery? please, rise. loras, help the lady sansa to her feet. might i call you sansa? if it please you. ser loras helped her up. margaery dismissed him with a sisterly kiss, and took sansa by the hand. come, my grandmother awaits, and she is not the most patient of ladies. a fire was crackling in the hearth, and sweet-swelling rushes had been scattered on the floor. around the long trestle table a dozen women were seated. sansa recognized only lord tyrell' s tall, dignified wife, lady alerie, whose long silvery braid was bound with jeweled rings. margaery performed the other introductions. there were three tyrell cousins, megga and alia and elinor, all close to sansa's age. buxom lady janna was lord tyrell's sister, and wed to one of the green-apple fossoways; dainty, bright-eyed lady leonette was a fossoway as well, and wed to ser garlan. septa nysterica had a homely pox- scarred face but seemed jolly. pale, elegant lady graceford was with child, and lady bulwer was a child, no more than eight. and merry was what she was to call boisterous plump meredyth crane, but most definitely not lady merryweather, a sultry black-eyed myrish beauty. last of all, margaery brought her before the wizened white-haired doll of a woman at the head of the table. i am honored to present my grandmother the lady olenna, widow to the late luthor tyrell, lord of highgarden, whose memory is a comfort to us all.  the old woman smelled of rosewater. why, she's just the littlest bit of a thing. there was nothing the least bit thorny about her. kiss me, child, lady olenna said, tugging at sansa's wrist with a soft spotted hand. it is so kind of you to sup with me and my foolish flock of hens. dutifully, sansa kissed the old woman on the cheek. it is kind of you to have me, my lady. i knew your grandfather, lord rickard, though not well. he died before i was born. i am aware of that, child. it's said that your tully grandfather is dying too. lord hoster, surely they told you? an old man, though not so old as me. still, night falls for all of us in the end, and too soon for some. you would know that more than most, poor child. you've had your share of grief, i know. we are sorry for your losses. sansa glanced at margaery. i was saddened when i heard of lord renly's death, your grace. he was very gallant. you are kind to say so, answered margaery. her grandmother snorted. gallant, yes, and charming, and very clean. he knew how to dress and he knew how to smile and he knew how to bathe, and somehow he got the notion that this made him fit to be king. the baratheons have always had some queer notions, to be sure. it comes from their targaryen blood, i should think. she sniffed. they tried to marry me to a targaryen once, but i soon put an end to that. renly was brave and gentle, grandmother, said margaery. father liked him as well, and so did loras. loras is young, lady olenna said crisply, and very good at knocking men off horses with a stick. that does not make him wise. as to your father, would that i'd been born a peasant woman with a big wooden spoon, i might have been able to beat some sense into his fat head. mother, lady alerie scolded. hush, alerie, don't take that tone with me. and don't call me mother. if i'd given birth to you, i'm sure i'd remember. i'm only to blame for your husband, the lord oaf of highgarden. grandmother, margaery said, mind your words, or what will sansa think of us? she might think we have some wits about us. one of us, at any rate. the old woman turned back to sansa. it's treason, i warned them, robert has two sons, and renly has an older brother, how can he possibly have any claim to that ugly iron chair? tut-tut, says my son, don't you want your sweetling to be queen? you starks were kings once, the arryns and the lannisters as well, and even the baratheons through the female line, but the tyrells were no more than stewards until aegon the dragon came along and cooked the rightful king of the reach on the field of fire. if truth be told, even our claim to highgarden is a bit dodgy, just as those dreadful flo rents are always whining. 'what does it matter?' you ask, and of course it doesn't, except to oafs like my son. the thought that one day he may see his grandson with his arse on the iron throne makes mace puff up like... now, what do you call it? margaery, you're clever, be a dear and tell your poor old half-daft grandmother the name of that queer fish from the summer isles that puffs up to ten times its own size when you poke it. they call them puff fish, grandmother. of course they do. summer islanders have no imagination. my son ought to take the puff fish for his sigil, if truth be told. he could put a crown on it, the way the baratheons do their stag, mayhap that would make him happy. we should have stayed well out of all this bloody foolishness if you ask me, but once the cow's been milked there's no squirting the cream back up her udder. after lord puff fish put that crown on renly's head, we were into the pudding up to our knees, so here we are to see things through. and what do you say to that, sansa? sansa's mouth opened and closed. she felt very like a puff fish herself. the tyrells can trace their descent back to garth greenhand, was the best she could manage at short notice. the queen of thorns snorted. so can the flo rents, the rowans, the oakhearts, and half the other noble houses of the south. garth liked to plant his seed in fertile ground, they say. i shouldn't wonder that more than his hands were green. sansa, lady alerie broke in, you must be very hungry. shall we have a bite of boar together, and some lemon cakes? lemon cakes are my favorite, sansa admitted. so we have been told, declared lady olenna, who obviously had no intention of being hushed. that varys creature seemed to think we should be grateful for the information. i've never been quite sure what the point of a eunuch is, if truth be told. it seems to me they're only men with the useful bits cut off. alerie, will you have them bring the food, or do you mean to starve me to death? here, sansa, sit here next to me, i'm much less boring than these others. i hope that you're fond of fools. sansa smoothed down her skirts and sat. i think... fools, my lady? you mean... the sort in motley? feathers, in this case. what did you imagine i was speaking of? my son? or these lovely ladies? no, don't blush, with your hair it makes you look like a pomegranate. all men are fools, if truth be told, but the ones in motley are more amusing than ones with crowns. margaery, child, summon butterbumps, let us see if we can't make lady sansa smile. the rest of you be seated, do i have to tell you everything? sansa must think that my granddaughter is attended by a flock of sheep. butterbumps arrived before the food, dressed in a jester's suit of green and yellow feathers with a floppy coxcomb. an immense round fat man, as big as three moon boys, he came cartwheeling into the hall, vaulted onto the table, and laid a gigantic egg right in front of sansa. break it, my lady, he commanded. when she did, a dozen yellow chicks escaped and began running in all directions. catch them! butterbumps exclaimed. little lady bulwer snagged one and handed it to him, whereby he tilted back his head, popped it into his huge rubbery mouth, and seemed to swallow it whole. when he belched, tiny yellow feathers flew out his nose. lady bulwer began to wail in distress, but her tears turned into a sudden squeal of delight when the chick came squirming out of the sleeve of her gown and ran down her arm. as the servants brought out a broth of leeks and mushrooms, butterbumps began to juggle and lady olenna pushed herself forward to rest her elbows on the table. do you know my son, sansa? lord puff fish of highgarden? a great lord, sansa answered politely. a great oaf, said the queen of thorns. his father was an oaf as well. my husband, the late lord luthor. oh, i loved him well enough, don't mistake me. a kind man, and not unskilled in the bedchamber, but an appalling oaf all the same. he managed to ride off a cliff whilst hawking. they say he was looking up at the sky and paying no mind to where his horse was taking him. and now my oaf son is doing the same, only he's riding a lion instead of a palfrey. it is easy to mount a lion and not so easy to get off, i warned him, but he only chuckles. should you ever have a son, sansa, beat him frequently so he learns to mind you. i only had the one boy and i hardly beat him at all, so now he pays more heed to butterbumps than he does to me. a lion is not a lap cat, i told him, and he gives me a 'tut-tut mother.' there is entirely too much tut-tutting in this realm, if you ask me. all these kings would do a deal better if they would put down their swords and listen to their mothers. sansa realized that her mouth was open again. she filled it with a spoon of broth while lady alerie and the other women were giggling at the spectacle of butterbumps bouncing oranges off his head, his elbows, and his ample rump. i want you to tell me the truth about this royal boy, said lady olenna abruptly. this joffrey. sansa's fingers tightened round her spoon. the truth? i can't. don't ask it, please, i can't. i... i... i... you, yes. who would know better? the lad seems kingly enough, i'll grant you. a bit full of himself, but that would be his lannister blood. we have heard some troubling tales, however. is there any truth to them? has this boy mistreated you? sansa glanced about nervously. butterbumps popped a whole orange into his mouth, chewed and swallowed, slapped his cheek, and blew seeds out of his nose. the women giggled and laughed. servants were coming and going, and the maidenvault echoed to the clatter of spoons and plates. one of the chicks hopped back onto the table and ran through lady graceford's broth. no one seemed to be paying them any mind, but even so, she was frightened. lady olenna was growing impatient. why are you gaping at butterbumps? i asked a question, i expect an answer. have the lannisters stolen your tongue, child? ser dontos had warned her to speak freely only in the godswood. joff... king joffrey, he's... his grace is very fair and handsome, and... and as brave as a lion. yes, all the lannisters are lions, and when a tyrell breaks wind it smells just like a rose, the old woman snapped. but how kind is he? how clever? has he a good heart, a gentle hand? is he chivalrous as befits a king? will he cherish margaery and treat her tenderly, protect her honor as he would his own? he will, sansa lied. he is very... very comely. you said that. you know, child, some say that you are as big a fool as butterbumps here, and i am starting to believe them. comely? i have taught my margaery what comely is worth, i hope. somewhat less than a mummer's fart. aerion brightfire was comely enough, but a monster all the same. the question is, what is joffrey? she reached to snag a passing servant. i am not fond of leeks. take this broth away, and bring me some cheese. the cheese will be served after the cakes, my lady. the cheese will be served when i want it served, and i want it served now. the old woman turned back to sansa. are you frightened, child? no need for that, we're only women here. tell me the truth, no harm will come to you. my father always told the truth. sansa spoke quietly, but even so, it was hard to get the words out. lord eddard, yes, he had that reputation, but they named him traitor and took his head off even so. the old woman's eyes bore into her, sharp and bright as the points of swords. joffrey, sansa said. joffrey did that. he promised me he would be merciful, and cut my father's head off. he said that was mercy, and he took me up on the walls and made me look at it. the head. he wanted me to weep, but... she stopped abruptly, and covered her mouth. i've said too much, oh gods be good, they'll know, they'll hear, someone will tell on me. go on. it was margaery who urged. joffrey's own queen-to-be. sansa did not know how much she had heard. i can't. what if she tells him, what if she tells? he'll kill me for certain then, or give me to ser ilyn. i never meant... my father was a traitor, my brother as well, i have the traitor's blood, please, don't make me say more. calm yourself, child, the queen of thorns commanded. she's terrified, grandmother, just look at her. the old woman called to butterbumps. fool! give us a song. a long one, i should think. 'the bear and the maiden fair' will do nicely. it will! the huge jester replied. it will do nicely indeed! shall i sing it standing on my head, my lady? will that make it sound better? no. stand on your feet, then. we wouldn't want your hat to fall off. as i recall, you never wash your hair. as my lady commands. butterbumps bowed low, let loose of an enormous belch, then straightened, threw out his belly, and bellowed. a bear there was, a bear, a bear! all black and brown, and covered with hair... lady olenna squirmed forward. even when i was a girl younger than you, it was well known that in the red keep the very walls have ears. well, they will be the better for a song, and meanwhile we girls shall speak freely. but, sansa said, varys... he knows, he always... sing louder! the queen of thorns shouted at butterbumps. these old ears are almost deaf, you know. are you whispering at me, you fat fool? i don't pay you for whispers. sing! ... the bear! thundered butterbumps, his great deep voice echoing off the rafters. oh, come, they said, oh come to the fair! the fair? said he, but i'm a bear! all black and brown, and covered with hair! the wrinkled old lady smiled. at highgarden we have many spiders amongst the flowers. so long as they keep to themselves we let them spin their little webs, but if they get underfoot we step on them. she patted sansa on the back of the hand. now, child, the truth. what sort of man is this joffrey, who calls himself baratheon but looks so very lannister? and down the road from here to there. from here! to there! three boys, a goat, and a dancing bear! sansa felt as though her heart had lodged in her throat. the queen of thorns was so close she could smell the old woman's sour breath. her gaunt thin fingers were pinching her wrist. to her other side, margaery was listening as well. a shiver went through her. a monster, she whispered, so tremulously she could scarcely hear her own voice. joffrey is a monster. he lied about the butcher's boy and made father kill my wolf. when i displease him, he has the kingsguard beat me. he's evil and cruel, my lady, it's so. and the queen as well. lady olenna tyrell and her granddaughter exchanged a look. ah said the old woman, that's a pity. oh, gods, thought sansa, horrified. if margaery won't marry him, jo ff will know that i'm to blame. please, she blurted, don't stop the wedding... have no fear, lord puff fish is determined that margaery shall be queen. and the word of a tyrell is worth more than all the gold in casterly rock. at least it was in my day. even so, we thank you for the truth, child. ... danced and spun, all the way to the fair! the fair! the fair! butterbumps hopped and roared and stomped his feet. sansa, would you like to visit highgarden? when margaery tyrell smiled, she looked very like her brother loras. all the autumn flowers are in bloom just now, and there are groves and fountains, shady courtyards, marble colonnades. my lord father always keeps singers at court, sweeter ones than butters here, and pipers and fiddlers and harpers as well. we have the best horses, and pleasure boats to sail along the mander. do you hawk, sansa? a little, she admitted. oh, sweet she was, and pure, and fair! the maid with honey in her hair! you will love highgarden as i do, i know it. margaery brushed back a loose strand of sansa's hair. once you see it, you'll never want to leave. and perhaps you won't have to. her hair! her hair! the maid with honey in her hair! shush, child, the queen of thorns said sharply. sansa hasn't even told us that she would like to come for a visit. oh, but i would, sansa said. highgarden sounded like the place she had always dreamed of, like the beautiful magical court she had once hoped to find at king's landing. ... smelled the scent on the summer air. the bear! the bear! all black and brown and covered with hair. but the queen, sansa went on, she won't let me go... she will. without highgarden, the lannisters have no hope of keeping joffrey on his throne. if my son the lord oaf asks, she will have no choice but to grant his request. will he? asked sansa. will he ask? lady olenna frowned. i see no need to give him a choice. of course, he has no hint of our true purpose. he smelled the scent on the summer air! sansa wrinkled her brow. our true purpose, my lady? he sniffed and roared and smelled it there! honey on the summer air! to see you safely wed, child, the old woman said, as butterbumps bellowed out the old, old song, to my grandson. wed to ser loras, oh... sansa' s breath caught in her throat. she remembered ser loras in his sparkling sapphire armor, tossing her a rose. ser loras in white silk, so pure, innocent, beautiful. the dimples at the comer of his mouth when he smiled. the sweetness of his laugh, the warmth of his hand. she could only imagine what it would be like to pull up his tunic and caress the smooth skin underneath, to stand on her toes and kiss him, to run her fingers through those thick brown curls and drown in his deep brown eyes. a flush crept up her neck. oh, ima maid, and i'm pure and fair! i'll never dance with a hairy bear! a bear! a bear! i'll never dance with a hairy bear! would you like that, sansa? asked margaery. i've never had a sister, only brothers. oh, please say yes, please say that you will consent to marry my brother. the words came tumbling out of her. yes. i will. i would like that more than anything. to wed ser loras, to love him... loras? lady olenna sounded annoyed. don't be foolish, child. kingsguard never wed. didn't they teach you anything in winterfell? we were speaking of my grandson willas. he is a bit old for you, to be sure, but a dear boy for all that. not the least bit oafish, and heir to highgarden besides. sansa felt dizzy; one instant her head was full of dreams of loras, and the next they had all been snatched away. willas? willas? i, she said stupidly. courtesy is a lady's armor. you must not offend them, be careful what you say. i do not know ser willas. i have never had the pleasure, my lady. is he... is he as great a knight as his brothers? ... lifted her high into the air! the bear! the bear! no, margaery said. he has never taken vows. her grandmother frowned. tell the girl the truth. the poor lad is crippled, and that's the way of it. he was hurt as a squire, riding in his first tourney, margaery confided. his horse fell and crushed his leg. that snake of a dornishman was to blame, that oberyn martell. and his maester as well. i called for a knight, but you're a bear! a bear! a bear! all black and brown and covered with hair! willas has a bad leg but a good heart, said margaery. he used to read to me when i was a little girl, and draw me pictures of the stars. you will love him as much as we do, sansa. she kicked and wailed, the maid so fair, but he licked the honey from her hair. her hair! her hair! he licked the honey from her hair! when might i meet him? asked sansa, hesitantly. soon, promised margaery. when you come to highgarden, after joffrey and i are wed. my grandmother will take you. i will, said the old woman, patting sansa's hand and smiling a soft wrinkly smile. i will indeed. then she sighed and squealed and kicked the air! my bear! she sang. mybear so fair! and off they went, from here to there, the bear, the bear, and the maiden fair. butterbumps roared the last line, leapt into the air, and came down on both feet with a crash that shook the wine cups on the table. the women laughed and clapped. i thought that dreadful song would never end, said the queen of thorns. but look, here comes my cheese. a new gown? she said, as wary as she was astonished. more lovely than any you have worn, my lady, the old woman promised. she measured sansa's hips with a length of knotted string. all silk and myrish lace, with satin linings. you will be very beautiful. the queen herself has commanded it. which queen? margaery was not yet joff 's queen, but she had been renly's. or did she mean the queen of thorns? or... the queen regent, to be sure. queen cersei? none other. she has honored me with her custom for many a year. the old woman laid her string along the inside of sansa's leg. her grace said to me that you are a woman now, and should not dress like a little girl. hold out your arm. sansa lifted her arm. she needed a new gown, that was true. she had grown three inches in the past year, and most of her old wardrobe had been ruined by the smoke when she'd tried to burn her mattress on the day of her first flowering your bosom will be as lovely as the queen's, the old woman said as she looped her string around sansa's chest. you should not hide it so. the comment made her blush. yet the last time she'd gone riding, she could not lace her jerkin all the way to the top, and the stableboy gaped at her as he helped her mount. sometimes she caught grown men looking at her chest as well, and some of her tunics were so tight she could scarce breathe in them. what color will it be? she asked the seamstress. leave the colors to me, my lady. you will be pleased, i know you will. you shall have smallclothes and hose as well, kirtles and mantles and cloaks, and all else befitting a... a lovely young lady of noble birth. will they be ready in time for the king's wedding? oh, sooner, much sooner, her grace insists. i have six seamstresses and twelve apprentice girls, and we have set all our other work aside for this. many ladies will be cross with us, but it was the queen's command. thank her grace kindly for her thoughtfulness, sansa said politely. she is too good to me. her grace is most generous, the seamstress agreed, as she gathered up her things and took her leave. but why? sansa wondered when she was alone. it made her uneasy. i'll wager this gown is margaery's doing somehow, or her grandmother's. margaery's kindness had been unfailing, and her presence changed everything. her ladies welcomed sansa as well. it had been so long since she had enjoyed the company of other women, she had almost forgotten how pleasant it could be. lady leonette gave her lessons on the high harp, and lady janna shared all the choice gossip. merry crane always had an amusing story, and little lady bulwer reminded her of arya, though not so fierce. closest to sansa's own age were the cousins elinor, alia, and megga, tyre lis from junior branches of the house. roses from lower on the bush, quipped elinor, who was witty and willowy. megga was round and loud, alia shy and pretty, but elinor ruled the three by right of womanhood; she was a maiden flowered, whereas megga and alia were mere girls. the cousins took sansa into their company as if they had known her all their lives. they spent long afternoons doing needlework and talking over lemon cakes and honeyed wine, played at tiles of an evening, sang together in the castle sept... and often one or two of them would be chosen to share margaery's bed, where they would whisper half the night away. alia had a lovely voice, and when coaxed would play the woodharp and sing songs of chivalry and lost loves. megga couldn't sing, but she was mad to be kissed. she and alia played a kissing game sometimes, she confessed, but it wasn't the same as kissing a man, much less a king. sansa wondered what megga would think about kissing the hound, as she had. he'd come to her the night of the battle stinking of wine and blood. he kissed me and threatened to kill me, and made me sing him a song. king joffrey has such beautiful lips, megga gushed, oblivious, oh, poor sansa, how your heart must have broken when you lost him. oh, how you must have wept! joffrey made me weep more often than you know, she wanted to say, but butterbumps was not on hand to drown out her voice, so she pressed her lips together and held her tongue. as for elinor, she was promised to a young squire, a son of lord ambrose; they would be wed as soon as he won his spurs. he had worn her favor in the battle of the blackwater, where he'd slain a myrish crossbowman and a mullendore man-at-arms. alyn said her favor made him fearless, said megga. he says he shouted her name for his battle cry, isn't that ever so gallant? someday i want some champion to wear my favor, and kill a hundred men. elinor told her to hush, but looked pleased all the same. they are children, sansa thought. they are silly little girls, even elinor. they've never seen a battle, they've never seen a man die, they know nothing. their dreams were full of songs and stories, the way hers had been before joffrey cut her father's head off. sansa pitied them. sansa envied them. margaery was different, though. sweet and gentle, yet there was a little of her grandmother in her, too. the day before last she'd taken sansa hawking. it was the first time she had been outside the city since the battle. the dead had been burned or buried, but the mud gate was scarred and splintered where lord stannis's rams had battered it, and the hulls of smashed ships could be seen along both sides of the blackwater, charred masts poking from the shallows like gaunt black fingers. the only traffic was the flat-bottomed ferry that took them across the river, and when they reached the kingswood they found a wilderness of ash and charcoal and dead trees. but the waterfowl teemed in the marshes along the bay, and sansa's merlin brought down three ducks while margaery's peregrine took a heron in full flight. willas has the best birds in the seven kingdoms, margaery said when the two of them were briefly alone. he flies an eagle sometimes. you will see, sansa. she took her by the hand and gave it a squeeze. sister. sister. sansa had once dreamt of having a sister like margaery; beautiful and gentle, with all the world's graces at her command. arya had been entirely unsatisfactory as sisters went. how can i let my sister marry joffrey? she thought, and suddenly her eyes were full of tears. margaery, please, she said, you mustn't. it was hard to get the words out. you mustn't marry him. he's not like he seems, he's not. he'll hurt you. i shouldn't think so. margaery smiled confidently. it's brave of you to warn me, but you need not fear. joff s spoiled and vain and i don't doubt that he's as cruel as you say, but father forced him to name loras to his kingsguard before he would agree to the match. i shall have the finest knight in the seven kingdoms protecting me night and day, as prince aemon protected naerys. so our little lion had best behave, hadn't he? she laughed, and said, come, sweet sister, let's race back to the river. it will drive our guards quite mad. and without waiting for an answer, she put her heels into her horse and flew. she is so brave, sansa thought, galloping after her... and yet, her doubts still gnawed at her. ser loras was a great knight, all agreed. but joffrey had other kingsguard, and gold cloaks and red cloaks besides, and when he was older he would command armies of his own. aegon the unworthy had never harmed queen naerys, perhaps for fear of their brother the dragonknight... but when another of his kingsguard fell in love with one of his mistresses, the king had taken both their heads. ser loras is a tyrell, sansa reminded herself. that other knight was only a toyne. his brothers had no armies, no way to avenge him but with swords. yet the more she thought about it all, the more she wondered. joff might restrain himself for a few turns, perhaps as long as a year, but soon or late he will show his claws, and when he does... the realm might have a second kingslayer, and there would be war inside the city, as the men of the lion and the men of the rose made the gutters run red. sansa was surprised that margaery did not see it too. she is older than me, she must be wiser. and her father, lord tyrell, he knows what he is doing, surely. i am just being silly. when she told ser dontos that she was going to highgarden to marry willas tyrell, she thought he would be relieved and pleased for her. instead he had grabbed her arm and said, you cannot! in a voice as thick with horror as with wine. i tell you, these tyrells are only lannisters with flowers. i beg of you, forget this folly, give your florian a kiss, and promise you'll go ahead as we have planned. the night of joffrey's wedding, that's not so long, wear the silver hair net and do as i told you, and afterward we make our escape. he tried to plant a kiss on her cheek. sansa slipped from his grasp and stepped away from him. i won't. i can't. something would go wrong. when i wanted to escape you wouldn't take me, and now i don't need to. dontos stared at her stupidly. but the arrangements are made, sweetling. the ship to take you home, the boat to take you to the ship, your florian did it all for his sweet jonquil. i am sorry for all the trouble i put you to, she said, but i have no need of boats and ships now. but it's all to see you safe. i will be safe in highgarden. willas will keep me safe. but he does not know you, dontos insisted, and he will not love you. jonquil, jonquil, open your sweet eyes, these tyrells care nothing for you. it's your claim they mean to wed. my claim? she was lost for a moment. sweetling, he told her, you are heir to winterfell. he grabbed her again, pleading that she must not do this thing, and sansa wrenched free and left him swaying beneath the heart tree. she had not visited the godswood since. but she had not forgotten his words, either. the heir to winterfell, she would think as she lay abed at night. it's your claim they mean to wed. sansa had grown up with three brothers. she never thought to have a claim, but with bran and rickon dead... it doesn't matter, there's still robb, he's a man grown now, and soon he'll wed and have a son. anyway, willas tyre 11 will have highgarden, what would he want with winterfell? sometimes she would whisper his name into her pillow just to hear the sound of it. willas, willas, willas. willas was as good a name as loras, she supposed. they even sounded the same, a little. what did it matter about his leg? willas would be lord of highgarden and she would be his lady. she pictured the two of them sitting together in a garden with puppies in their laps, or listening to a singer strum upon a lute while they floated down the mander on a pleasure barge. if i give him sons, he may come to love me. she would name them eddard and brandon and rickon, and raise them all to be as valiant as ser loras. and to hate lannisters, too. in sansa's dreams, her children looked just like the brothers she had lost. sometimes there was even a girl who looked like arya. she could never hold a picture of willas long in her head, though; her imaginings kept turning him back into ser loras, young and graceful and beautiful. you must not think of him like that, she told herself. or else he may see the disappointment in your eyes when you meet, and how could he marry you then, knowing it was his brother you loved? willas tyrell was twice her age, she reminded herself constantly, and lame as well, and perhaps even plump and red- faced like his father. but comely or no, he might be the only champion she would ever have. once she dreamed it was still her marrying joff, not margaery, and on their wedding night he turned into the headsman ilyn payne. she woke trembling. she did not want margaery to suffer as she had, but she dreaded the thought that the tyrells might refuse to go ahead with the wedding. i warned her, i did, i told her the truth of him. perhaps margaery did not believe her. joff always played the perfect knight with her, as once he had with sansa. she will see his true nature soon enough. after the wedding if not before. sansa decided that she would light a candle to the mother above the next time she visited the sept, and ask her to protect margaery from joffrey's cruelty. and perhaps a candle to the warrior as well, for loras. she would wear her new gown for the ceremony at the great sept of baelor, she decided as the seamstress took her last measurement. that must be why cersei is having it made for me, so i will not look shabby at the wedding. she really ought to have a different gown for the feast afterward but she supposed one of her old ones would do. she did not want to risk getting food or wine on the new one. i must take it with me to highgarden. she wanted to look beautiful for willas tyrell. even if dontos was right, and it is winterfell he wants and not me, he still may come to love me for myself. sansa hugged herself tightly, wondering how long it would be before the gown was ready. she could scarcely wait to wear it. on the morning her new gown was to be ready, the serving maid filled sansa's tub with steaming hot water and scrubbed her head to toe until she glowed pink. cersei's own bedmaid trimmed her nails and brushed and curled her auburn hair so it fell down her back in soft ringlets. she brought a dozen of the queen's favorite scents as well. sansa chose a sharp sweet fragrance with a hint of lemon in it under the smell of flowers. the maid dabbed some on her finger and touched sansa behind each ear, and under her chin, and then lightly on her nipples. cersei herself arrived with the seamstress, and watched as they dressed sansa in her new clothes. the smallclothes were all silk, but the gown itself was ivory samite and cloth-of-silver, and lined with silvery satin. the points of the long dagged sleeves almost touched the ground when she lowered her arms. and it was a woman's gown, not a little girl's, there was no doubt of that. the bodice was slashed in front almost to her belly, the deep vee covered over with a panel of ornate myrish lace in dove-grey. the skirts were long and full, the waist so tight that sansa had to hold her breath as they laced her into it. they brought her new shoes as well, slippers of soft grey doeskin that hugged her feet like lovers. you are very beautiful, my lady, the seamstress said when she was dressed. i am, aren't i? sansa giggled, and spun, her skirts swirling around her. oh, i am. she could not wait for willas to see her like this. he will love me, he will, he must... he will forget winterfell when he sees me, i'll see that he does. queen cersei studied her critically. a few gems, i think. the moonstones joffrey gave her. at once, your grace, her maid replied. when the moonstones hung from sansa's ears and about her neck, the queen nodded. yes. the gods have been kind to you, sansa. you are a lovely girl. it seems almost obscene to squander such sweet innocence on that gargoyle. what gargoyle? sansa did not understand. did she mean willas? how could she know? no one knew, but her and margaery and the queen of thorns... oh, and dontos, but he didn't count. cersei lannister ignored the question. the cloak, she commanded, and the women brought it out: a long cloak of white velvet heavy with pearls. a fierce direwolf was embroidered upon it in silver thread. sansa looked at it with sudden dread. your father's colors, said cersei, as they fastened it about her neck with a slender silver chain. a maiden's cloak. sansa's hand went to her throat. she would have torn the thing away if she had dared. you're prettier with your mouth closed, sansa, cersei told her. come along now, the septon is waiting. and the wedding guests as well. no, sansa blurted. no. yes. you are a ward of the crown. the king stands in your father's place, since your brother is an attainted traitor. that means he has every right to dispose of your hand. you are to marry my brother tyrion. my claim, she thought, sickened. dontos the fool was not so foolish after all; he had seen the truth of it. sansa backed away from the queen. i won't. i'm to marry willas, i'm to be the lady of highgarden, please... i understand your reluctance. cry if you must. in your place, i would likely rip my hair out. he's a loathsome little imp, no doubt of it, but marry him you shall. you can't make me. of course we can. you may come along quietly and say your vows as befits a lady, or you may struggle and scream and make a spectacle for the stableboys to titter over, but you will end up wedded and bedded all the same. the queen opened the door. ser meryn trant and ser osmund kettleblack were waiting without, in the white scale armor of the kingsguard. escort lady sansa to the sept, she told them. carry her if you must, but try not to tear the gown, it was very costly- sansa tried to run, but cersei's handmaid caught her before she'd gone a yard. ser meryn trant gave her a look that made her cringe, but kettleblack touched her almost gently and said, do as you're told, sweetling, it won't be so bad. wolves are supposed to be brave, aren't they? brave. sansa took a deep breath. i am a stark, yes, i can be brave. they were all looking at her, the way they had looked at her that day in the yard when ser boros blount had torn her clothes off. it had been the imp who saved her from a beating that day, the same man who was waiting for her now. he is not so bad as the rest of them, she told herself. i'll go. cersei smiled. i knew you would. afterward, she could not remember leaving the room or descending the steps or crossing the yard. it seemed to take all her attention just to put one foot down in front of the other. ser meryn and ser osmund walked beside her, in cloaks as pale as her own, lacking only the pearls and the direwolf that had been her father's. joffrey himself was waiting for her on the steps of the castle sept. the king was resplendent in crimson and gold, his crown on his head. i'm your father today, he announced. you're not, she flared. you'll never be. his face darkened. i am. i'm your father, and i can marry you to whoever i like. to anyone. you'll marry the pig boy if i say so, and bed down with him in the sty. his green eyes glittered with amusement. or maybe i should give you to ilyn payne, would you like him better? her heart lurched. please, your grace, she begged. if you ever loved me even a little bit, don't make me marry your uncle? tyrion lannister stepped through the doors of the sept. your grace, he said to joffrey. grant me a moment alone with lady sansa, if you would be so kind? the king was about to refuse, but his mother gave him a sharp look. they drew off a few feet. tyrion wore a doublet of black velvet covered with golden scrollwork, thigh-high boots that added three inches to his height, a chain of rubies and lions' heads. but the gash across his face was raw and red, and his nose was a hideous scab. you are very beautiful, sansa, he told her. it is good of you to say so, my lord. she did not know what else to say. should i tell him he is handsome? he'll think me a fool or a liar. she lowered her gaze and held her tongue. my lady, this is no way to bring you to your wedding. i am sorry for that. and for making this so sudden, and so secret. my lord father felt it necessary, for reasons of state. else i would have come to you sooner, as i wished. he waddled closer. you did not ask for this marriage, i know. no more than i did. if i had refused you, however, they would have wed you to my cousin lancel. perhaps you would prefer that. he is nearer your age, and fairer to look upon. if that is your wish, say so, and i will end this farce. i don't want any lannister, she wanted to say. i want willas, i want highgarden and the puppies and the barge, and sons named eddard and bran and rickon. but then she remembered what dontos had told her in the godswood. tyrell or lannister, it makes no matter, it's not me they want, only my claim. you are kind, my lord, she said, defeated. i am a ward of the throne and my duty is to marry as the king commands. he studied her with his mismatched eyes. i know i am not the sort of husband young girls dream of, sansa, he said softly, but neither am i joffrey. no, she said. you were kind to me. i remember. tyrion offered her a thick, blunt-fingered hand. come, then. let us do our duty. so she put her hand in his, and he led her to the marriage altar, where the septon waited between the mother and the father to join their lives together. she saw dontos in his fool's motley, looking at her with big round eyes. ser balon swann and ser boros blount were there in kingsguard white, but not ser loras. none of the tyre lis are here, she realized suddenly. but there were other witnesses aplenty; the eunuch varys, ser addam marbrand, lord philip foote, ser bronn, jalabhar xho, a dozen others. lord gyles was coughing, lady ermesande was at the breast, and lady tanda's pregnant daughter was sobbing for no apparent reason. let her sob, sansa thought. perhaps i shall do the same before this day is done. the ceremony passed as in a dream. sansa did all that was required of her. there were prayers and vows and singing, and tall candles burning, a hundred dancing lights that the tears in her eyes transformed into a thousand. thankfully no one seemed to notice that she was crying as she stood there, wrapped in her father's colors; or if they did, they pretended not to. in what seemed no time at all, they came to the changing of the cloaks. as father of the realm, joffrey took the place of lord eddard stark. sansa stood stiff as a lance as his hands came over her shoulders to fumble with the clasp of her cloak. one of them brushed her breast and lingered to give it a little squeeze. then the clasp opened, and jo ff swept her maiden's cloak away with a kingly flourish and a grin. his uncle's part went less well. the bride's cloak he held was huge and heavy, crimson velvet richly worked with lions and bordered with gold satin and rubies. no one had thought to bring a stool, however, and tyrion stood a foot and a half shorter than his bride. as he moved behind her, sansa felt a sharp tug on her skirt. he wants me to kneel, she realized, blushing. she was mortified. it was not supposed to be this way. she had dreamed of her wedding a thousand times, and always she had pictured how her betrothed would stand behind her tall and strong, sweep the cloak of his protection over her shoulders, and tenderly kiss her cheek as he leaned forward to fasten the clasp. she felt another tug at her skirt, more insistent. i won't. why should i spare his feelings, when no one cares about mine? the dwarf tugged at her a third time. stubbornly she pressed her lips together and pretended not to notice. someone behind them tittered. the queen, she thought, but it didn't matter. they were all laughing by then, joffrey the loudest. dontos, down on your hands and knees, the king commanded. my uncle needs a boost to climb his bride. and so it was that her lord husband cloaked her in the colors of house lannister whilst standing on the back of a fool. when sansa turned, the little man was gazing up at her, his mouth tight, his face as red as her cloak. suddenly she was ashamed of her stubbornness. she smoothed her skirts and knelt in front of him, so their heads were on the same level. with this kiss i pledge my love, and take you for my lord and husband. with this kiss i pledge my love, the dwarf replied hoarsely, and take you for my lady and wife. he leaned forward, and their lips touched briefly. he is so ugly, sansa thought when his face was close to hers. he is even uglier than the hound. the septon raised his crystal high, so the rainbow light fell down upon them. here in the sight of gods and men, he said, i do solemnly proclaim tyrion of house lannister and sansa of house stark to be man and wife, one flesh, one heart, one soul, now and forever, and cursed be the one who comes between them. she had to bite her lip to keep from sobbing. the wedding feast was held in the small hall. there were perhaps fifty guests; lannister retainers and allies for the most part, joining those who had been at the wedding. and here sansa found the tyrells. margaery gave her such a sad look, and when the queen of thorns tottered in between left and right, she never looked at her at all. elinor, alia, and megga seemed determined not to know her. my friends, sansa thought bitterly. her husband drank heavily and ate but little. he listened whenever someone rose to make a toast and sometimes nodded a curt acknowledgment, but otherwise his face might have been made of stone. the feast seemed to go on forever, though sansa tasted none of the food. she wanted it to be done, and yet she dreaded its end. for after the feast would come the bedding. the men would carry her up to her wedding bed, undressing her on the way and making rude jokes about the fate that awaited her between the sheets, while the women did tyrion the same honors. only after they had been bundled naked into bed would they be left alone, and even then the guests would stand outside the bridal chamber, shouting ribald suggestions through the door. the bedding had seemed wonderfully wicked and exciting when sansa was a girl, but now that the moment was upon her she felt only dread. she did not think she could bear for them to rip off her clothes, and she was certain she would burst into tears at the first randy jape. when the musicians began to play, she timidly laid her hand on tyrion's and said, my lord, should we lead the dance? his mouth twisted. i think we have already given them sufficent amusement for one day, don't you? as you say, my lord. she pulled her hand back. joffrey and margaery led in their place. how can a monster dance so beautifully? sansa wondered. she had often daydreamed of how she would dance at her wedding, with every eye upon her and her handsome lord, in her dreams they had all been smiling. not even my husband is smiling. other guests soon joined the king and his betrothed on the floor. elinor danced with her young squire, and megga with prince tommen. lady merryweather, the myrish beauty with the black hair and the big dark eyes, spun so provocatively that every man in the hall was soon watching her. lord and lady tyrell moved more sedately. ser kevan lannister begged the honor of lady janna. fossoway, lord tyrell' s sister. merry crane took the floor with the exile prince jalabhar xho, gorgeous in his feathered finery. cersei lannister partnered first lord redwyne, then lord rowan, and finally her own father, who danced with smooth unsmiling grace. sansa sat with her hands in her lap, watching how the queen moved and laughed and tossed her blonde curls. she charms them all, she thought dully. how i hate her. she looked away, to where moon boy danced with dontos. lady sansa. ser garlan tyrell stood beside the dais. would you honor me? if your lord consents? the imp's mismatched eyes narrowed. my lady can dance with whomever she pleases. perhaps she ought to have remained beside her husband, but she wanted to dance so badly... and ser garlan was brother to margaery, to willas, to her knight of flowers. i see why they name you garlan the gallant, ser, she said, as she took his hand. my lady is gracious to say so. my brother willas gave me that name, as it happens. to protect me. to protect you? she gave him a puzzled look. ser garlan laughed. i was a plump little boy, i fear, and we do have an uncle called garth the gross. so willas struck first, though not before threatening me with garlan the greensick, garlan the galling, and garlan the gargoyle. it was so sweet and silly that sansa had to laugh, despite everything. afterward she was absurdly grateful. somehow the laughter made her hopeful again, if only for a little while. smiling, she let the music take her, losing herself in the steps, in the sound of flute and pipes and harp, in the rhythm of the drum... and from time to time in ser garlan's arms, when the dance brought them together. my lady wife is most concerned for you, he said quietly, one such time. lady leonette is too sweet. tell her i am well. a bride at her wedding should be more than well. his voice was not unkind. you seemed close to tears. tears of joy, ser. your eyes give the lie to your tongue. ser garlan turned her, drew her close to his side. my lady, i have seen how you look at my brother. loras is valiant and handsome, and we all love him dearly... but your imp will make a better husband. he is a bigger man than he seems, i think. the music spun them apart before sansa could think of a reply. it was mace tyrell opposite her, red-faced and sweaty, and then lord merryweather, and then prince tommen. i want to be married too, said the plump little princeling, who was all of nine. i'm taller than my uncle! i know you are, said sansa, before the partners changed again. ser kevan told her she was beautiful, jalabhar xho said something she did not understand in the summer tongue, and lord redwyne wished her many fat children and long years of joy. and then the dance brought her face-to-face with joffrey. sansa stiffened as his hand touched hers, but the king tightened his grip and drew her closer. you shouldn't look so sad. my uncle is an ugly little thing, but you'll still have me. you're to marry margaery! a king can have other women. whores. my father did. one of the aegons did too. the third one, or the fourth. he had lots of whores and lots of bastards. as they whirled to the music, joff gave her a moist kiss. my uncle will bring you to my bed whenever i command it. sansa shook her head. he won't. he will, or i'll have his head. that king aegon, he had any woman he wanted, whether they were married or no. thankfully, it was time to change again. her legs had turned to wood, though, and lord rowan, ser tallad, and elinor's squire all must have thought her a very clumsy dancer. and then she was back with ser garlan once more, and soon, blessedly, the dance was over. her relief was short-lived. no sooner had the music died than she heard joffrey say, it's time to bed them! let's get the clothes off her, and have a look at what the she-wolf s got to give my uncle! other men took up the cry, loudly. her dwarf husband lifted his eyes slowly from his wine cup. i'll have no bedding. joffrey seized sansa's arm. you will if i command it. the imp slammed his dagger down in the table, where it stood quivering. then you'll service your own bride with a wooden prick. i'll geld you, i swear it. a shocked silence fell. sansa pulled away from joffrey, but he had a grip on her, and her sleeve ripped. no one even seemed to hear. queen cersei turned to her father. did you hear him? lord tywin rose from his seat. i believe we can dispense with the bedding. tyrion, i am certain you did not mean to threaten the king's royal person. sansa saw a spasm of rage pass across her husband's face. i misspoke, he said. it was a bad jape, sire. you threatened to geld me! joffrey said shrilly. i did, your grace, said tyrion, but only because i envied your royal manhood. mine own is so small and stunted. his face twisted into a leer. and if you take my tongue, you will leave me no way at all to pleasure this sweet wife you gave me. laughter burst from the lips of ser osmund kettleblack. someone else sniggered. but joff did not laugh, nor lord tywin. your grace, he said, my son is drunk, you can see that. i am, the imp confessed, but not so drunk that i cannot attend to my own bedding. he hopped down from the dais and grabbed sansa roughly. come, wife, time to smash your portcullis. i want to play come-into-the-castle. red-faced, sansa went with him from the small hall. what choice do i have? tyrion waddled when he walked, especially when he walked as quickly as he did now. the gods were merciful, and neither joffrey nor any of the others moved to follow. for their wedding night, they had been granted the use of an airy bedchamber high in the tower of the hand. tyrion kicked the door shut behind them. there is a flagon of good arbor gold on the sideboard, sansa. will you be so kind as to pour me a cup? is that wise, my lord? nothing was ever wiser. i am not truly drunk, you see. but i mean to be. sansa filled a goblet for each of them. it will be easier if i am drunk as well. she sat on the edge of the great curtained bed and drained half her cup in three long swallows. no doubt it was very fine wine, but she was too nervous to taste it. it made her head swim. would you have me undress, my lord? tyrion. he cocked his head. my name is tyrion, sansa. tyrion. my lord. should i take off my gown, or do you want to undress me? she took another swallow of wine. the imp turned away from her. the first time i wed, there was us and a drunken septon, and some pigs to bear witness. we ate one of our witnesses at our wedding feast. tysha fed me crackling and i licked the grease off her fingers, and we were laughing when we fell into bed. you were wed before? i... i had forgotten. you did not forget. you never knew. who was she, my lord? sansa was curious despite herself. lady tysha. his mouth twisted. of house silverfist. their arms have one gold coin and a hundred silver, upon a bloody sheet. ours was a very short marriage... as befits a very short man, i suppose. sansa stared down at her hands and said nothing. how old are you, sansa? asked tyrion, after a moment. thirteen, she said, when the moon turns. gods have mercy. the dwarf took another swallow of wine. well, talk won't make you older. shall we get on with this, my lady? if it please you? it will please me to please my lord husband. that seemed to anger him. you hide behind courtesy as if it were a castle wall. courtesy is a lady's armor, sansa said. her septa had always told her that. i am your husband. you can take off your armor now. and my clothing? that too. he waved his wine cup at her. my lord father has commanded me to consummate this marriage. her hands trembled as she began fumbling at her clothes. she had ten thumbs instead of fingers, and all of them were broken. yet somehow she managed the laces and buttons, and her cloak and gown and girdle and undersilk slid to the floor, until finally she was stepping out of her smallclothes. gooseprickles covered her arms and legs. she kept her eyes on the floor, too shy to look at him, but when she was done she glanced up and found him staring. there was hunger in his green eye, it seemed to her, and fury in the black. sansa did not know which scared her more. you're a child, he said. she covered her breasts with her hands. i've flowered. a child, he repeated, but i want you. does that frighten you, sansa? yes. me as well. i know i am ugly - no, my -if he pushed himself to his feet. don't lie, sansa. i am malformed, scarred, and small, but... she could see him groping ... abed, when the candles are blown out, i am made no worse than other men. in the dark, i am the knight of flowers. he took a draught of wine. i am generous. loyal to those who are loyal to me. i've proven i'm no craven. and i am cleverer than most, surely wits count for something. i can even be kind. kindness is not a habit with us lannisters, i fear, but i know i have some somewhere. i could be... i could be good to you. he is as frightened as i am, sansa realized. perhaps that should have made her feel more kindly toward him, but it did not. all she felt was pity, and pity was death to desire. he was looking at her, waiting for her to say something, but all her words had withered. she could only stand there trembling. when he finally realized that she had no answer for him, tyrion lannister drained the last of his wine. i understand, he said bitterly. get in the bed, sansa. we need to do our duty. she climbed onto the featherbed, conscious of his stare. a scented beeswax candle burned on the bedside table and rose petals had been strewn between the sheets. she had started to pull up a blanket to cover herself when she heard him say, no. the cold made her shiver, but she obeyed. her eyes closed, and she waited. after a moment she heard the sound of her husband pulling off his boots, and the rustle of clothing as he undressed himself. when he hopped up on the bed and put his hand on her breast, sansa could not help but shudder. she lay with her eyes closed, every muscle tense, dreading what might come next. would he touch her again? kiss her? should she open her legs for him now? she did not know what was expected of her. sansa. the hand was gone. open your eyes. she had promised to obey; she opened her eyes. he was sitting by her feet, naked. where his legs joined, his man's staff poked up stiff and hard from a thicket of coarse yellow hair, but it was the only thing about him that was straight. my lady, tyrion said, you are lovely, make no mistake, but... i cannot do this. my father be damned. we will wait. the turn of a moon, a year, a season, however long it takes. until you have come to know me better, and perhaps to trust me a little. his smile might have been meant to be reassuring, but without a nose it only made him look more grotesque and sinister. look at him, sansa told herself, look at your husband, at all of him, septa mordane said all men are beautiful, find his beauty, try. she stared at the stunted legs, the swollen brutish brow, the green eye and the black one, the raw stump of his nose and crooked pink scar, the coarse tangle of black and gold hair that passed for his beard. even his manhood was ugly, thick and veined, with a bulbous purple head. this is not right, this is not fair, how have i sinned that the gods would do this to me, how? on my honor as a lannister, the imp said, i will not touch you until you want me to. it took all the courage that was in her to look in those mismatched eyes and say, and if i never want you to, my lord? his mouth jerked as if she had slapped him. never? her neck was so tight she could scarcely nod. why, he said, that is why the gods made whores for imps like me. he closed his short blunt fingers into a fist, and climbed down off the bed. that was such a sweet dream, sansa thought drowsily. she had been back in winterfell, running through the godswood with her lady. her father had been there, and her brothers, all of them warm and safe. if only dreaming could make it so... she threw back the coverlets. i must be brave. her torments would soon be ended, one way or the other. if lady was here, i would not be afraid. lady was dead, though; robb, bran, rickon, arya, her father, her mother, even septa mordane. all of them are dead but me. she was alone in the world now. her lord husband was not beside her, but she was used to that. tyrion was a bad sleeper and often rose before the dawn. usually she found him in the solar, hunched beside a candle, lost in some old scroll or leatherbound book. sometimes the smell of the morning bread from the ovens took him to the kitchens, and sometimes he would climb up to the roof garden or wander all alone down traitor's walk. she threw back the shutters and shivered as gooseprickles rose along her arms. there were clouds massing in the eastern sky, pierced by shafts of sunlight. they look like two huge castles afloat in the morning sky. sansa could see their walls of tumbled stone, their mighty keeps and barbicans. wispy banners swirled from atop their towers and reached for the fast-fading stars. the sun was coming up behind them, and she watched them go from black to grey to a thousand shades of rose and gold and crimson. soon the wind mushed them together, and there was only one castle where there had been two. she heard the door open as her maids brought the hot water for her bath. they were both new to her service; tyrion said the women who'd tended to her previously had all been cersei's spies, just as sansa had always suspected. come see, she told them. there's a castle in the sky. they came to have a look. it's made of gold. shae had short dark hair and bold eyes. she did all that was asked of her, but sometimes she gave sansa the most insolent looks. a castle all of gold, there's a sight i'd like to see. a castle, is it? brella had to squint. that tower's tumbling over, looks like. it's all ruins, that is. sansa did not want to hear about falling towers and ruined castles. she closed the shutters and said, we are expected at the queen's breakfast. is my lord husband in the solar? no, m'lady, said brella. i have not seen him. might be he went to see his father, shae declared. might be the king's hand had need of his counsel. brella gave a sniff. lady sansa, you'll be wanting to get into the tub before the water gets too cool. sansa let shae pull her shift up over her head and climbed into the big wooden tub. she was tempted to ask for a cup of wine, to calm her nerves. the wedding was to be at midday in the great sept of baelor across the city. and come evenfall the feast would be held in the throne room; a thousand guests and seventy-seven courses, with singers and jugglers and mummers. but first came breakfast in the queen's ballroom, for the lannisters and the tyrell men - the tyrell women would be breaking their fast with margaery - and a hundred odd knights and lordlings. they have made me a lannister, sansa thought bitterly. brella sent shae to fetch more hot water while she washed sansa' s back. you are trembling, m'lady. the water is not hot enough, sansa lied. her maids were dressing her when tyrion appeared, podrick payne in tow. you look lovely, sansa. he turned to his squire. pod, be so good as to pour me a cup of wine. there will be wine at the breakfast, my lord, sansa said. there's wine here. you don't expect me to face my sister sober, surely? it's a new century, my lady. the three hundredth year since aegon's conquest. the dwarf took a cup of red from podrick and raised it high. to aegon. what a fortunate fellow. two sisters, two wives, and three big dragons, what more could a man ask for? he wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. the imp's clothing was soiled and unkempt, sansa noticed; it looked as though he'd slept in it. will you be changing into fresh garb, my lord? your new doublet is very handsome. the doublet is handsome, yes. tyrion put the cup aside. come, pod, let us see if we can find some garments to make me look less dwarfish. i would not want to shame my lady wife. when the imp returned a short time later, he was presentable enough, and even a little taller. podrick payne had changed as well, and looked almost a proper squire for once, although a rather large red pimple in the fold beside his nose spoiled the effect of his splendid purple, white, and gold raiment. he is such a timid boy. sansa had been wary of tyrion's squire at first; he was a payne, cousin to ser ilyn payne who had taken her father's head off. however, she'd soon come to realize that pod was as frightened of her as she was of his cousin. whenever she spoke to him, he turned the most alarming shade of red. are purple, gold, and white the colors of house payne, podrick? she asked him politely. no. i mean, yes. he blushed. the colors. our arms are purple and white chequy, my lady. with gold coins in the checks. purple and white. both. he studied her feet. there's a tale behind those coins, said tyrion. no doubt pod will confide it to your toes one day. just now we are expected at the queen's ballroom, however. shall we? sansa was tempted to beg off. i could tell him that my tummy was upset, or that my moon's blood had come. she wanted nothing more than to crawl back in bed and pull the drapes. i must be brave, like robb, she told herself, as she took her lord husband stiffly by the arm. in the queen's ballroom they broke their fast on honeycakes baked with blackberries and nuts, gammon steaks, bacon, fingerfish crisped in breadcrumbs, autumn pears, and a dornish dish of onions, cheese, and chopped eggs cooked up with fiery peppers. nothing like a hearty breakfast to whet one's appetite for the seventy-seven-course feast to follow, tyrion commented as their plates were filled. there were flagons of milk and flagons of mead and flagons of a light sweet golden wine to wash it down. musicians strolled among the tables, piping and fluting and fiddling, while ser dontos galloped about on his broomstick horse and moon boy made farting sounds with his cheeks and sang rude songs about the guests. tyrion scarce touched his food, sansa noticed, though he drank several cups of the wine. for herself, she tried a little of the dornish eggs, but the peppers burned her mouth. otherwise she only nibbled at the fruit and fish and honeycakes. every time joffrey looked at her, her tummy got so fluttery that she felt as though she'd swallowed a bat. when the food had been cleared away, the queen solemnly presented joff with the wife's cloak that he would drape over margaery's shoulders. it is the cloak i donned when robert took me for his queen, the same cloak my mother lady joanna wore when wed to my lord father. sansa thought it looked threadbare, if truth be told, but perhaps because it was so used. then it was time for gifts. it was traditional in the reach to give presents to bride and groom on the morning of their wedding; on the morrow they would receive more presents as a couple, but today's tokens were for their separate persons. from jalabbar xho, joffrey received a great bow of golden wood and quiver of long arrows fletched with green and scarlet feathers; from lady tanda a pair of supple riding boots; from ser kevan a magnificent red leather jousting saddle; a red gold brooch wrought in the shape of a scorpion from the dornishman, prince oberyn; silver spurs from ser addam marbrand; a red silk tourney pavilion from lord mathis rowan. lord paxter redwyne brought forth a beautiful wooden model of the war galley of two hundred oars being built even now on the arbor. if it please your grace, she will be called king joffrey's valor, he said, and joff allowed that he was very pleased indeed. i will make it my flagship when i sail to dragonstone to kill my traitor uncle stannis, he said. he plays the gracious king today. joffrey could be gallant when it suited him, sansa knew, but it seemed to suit him less and less. indeed, all his courtesy vanished at once when tyrion presented him with their own gift: a huge old book called lives of four kings, bound in leather and gorgeously illuminated. the king leafed through it with no interest. and what is this, uncle? a book. sansa wondered if joffrey moved those fat wormy lips of his when he read. grand maester kaeth's history of the reigns of daeron the young dragon, baelor the blessed, aegon the unworthy, and daeron the good, her small husband answered. a book every king should read, your grace, said ser kevan. my father had no time for books. joffrey shoved the tome across the table. if you read less, uncle imp, perhaps lady sansa would have a baby in her belly by now. he laughed... and when the king laughs, the court laughs with him. don't be sad, sansa, once i've gotten queen margaery with child i'll visit your bedchamber and show my little uncle how it's done. sansa reddened. she glanced nervously at tyrion, afraid of what he might say. this could turn as nasty as the bedding had at their own feast. but for once the dwarf filled his mouth with wine instead of words. lord mace tyrell came forward to present his gift: a golden chalice three feet tall, with two ornate curved handles and seven faces glittering with gemstones. seven faces for your grace's seven kingdoms, the bride's father explained. he showed them how each face bore the sigil of one of the great houses: ruby lion, emerald rose, onyx stag, silver trout, blue jade falcon, opal sun, and pearl direwolf a splendid cup, said joffrey, but we'll need to chip the wolf off and put a squid in its place, i think. sansa pretended that she had not heard. margaery and i shall drink deep at the feast, good father. joffrey lifted the chalice above his head, for everyone to admire. the damned thing's as tall as i am, tyrion muttered in a low voice. haifa chalice and joff will be falling down drunk. good, she thought. perhaps he'll break his neck. lord tywin waited until last to present the king with his own gift: a longsword. its scabbard was made of cherrywood, gold, and oiled red leather, studded with golden lions' heads. the lions had ruby eyes, she saw. the ballroom fell silent as joffrey unsheathed the blade and thrust the sword above his head. red and black ripples in the steel shimmered in the morning light. magnificent, declared mathis rowan. a sword to sing of, sire, said lord redwyne. a king's sword, said ser kevan lannister. king joffrey looked as if he wanted to kill someone right then and there, he was so excited. he slashed at the air and laughed. a great sword must have a great name, my lords! what shall i call it? sansa remembered lion's tooth, the sword arya had flung into the trident, and hearteater, the one he'd made her kiss before the battle. she wondered if he'd want margaery to kiss this one. the guests were shouting out names for the new blade. joff dismissed a dozen before he heard one he liked. widow's wail! he cried. yes! it shall make many a widow, too! he slashed again. and when i face my uncle stannis it will break his magic sword clean in two. joff tried a downcut, forcing ser balon swann to take a hasty step backward. laughter rang through the hall at the look on ser balon's face. have a care, your grace, ser addam marbrand warned the king. valyrian steel is perilously sharp. i remember. joffrey brought widow's wail down in a savage twohanded slice, onto the book that tyrion had given him. the heavy leather cover parted at a stroke. sharp! i told you, i am no stranger to valyrian steel. it took him half a dozen further cuts to hack the thick tome apart, and the boy was breathless by the time he was done. sansa could feel her husband struggling with his fury as ser osmund kettleblack shouted, i pray you never turn that wicked edge on me, sire. see that you never give me cause, ser. joffrey flicked a chunk of lives of four kings off the table at swordpoint, then slid widow's wail back into its scabbard. your grace, ser garlan tyrell said. perhaps you did not know. in all of westeros there were but four copies of that book illuminated in kaeth's own hand. now there are three. joffrey undid his old swordbelt to don his new one. you and lady sansa owe me a better present, uncle imp. this one is all chopped to pieces. tyrion was staring at his nephew with his mismatched eyes. perhaps a knife, sire. to match your sword. a dagger of the same fine valyrian steel... with a dragonbone hilt, say? jo ff gave him a sharp look. you... yes, a dagger to match my sword, good. he nodded. a... a gold hilt with rubies in it. dragonbone is too plain. as you wish, your grace. tyrion drank another cup of wine. he might have been all alone in his solar for all the attention he paid sansa. but when the time came to leave for the wedding, he took her by the hand. as they were crossing the yard, prince oberyn of dome fell in beside them, his black-haired paramour on his arm. sansa glanced at the woman curiously. she was baseborn and unwed, and had home two bastard daughters for the prince, but she did not fear to look even the queen in the eye. shae had told her that this ellaria worshiped some lysene love goddess. she was almost a whore when he found her, m'lady, her maid confided, and now she's near a princess. sansa had never been this close to the dornishwoman before. she is not truly beautiful, she thought, but something about her draws the eye. i once had the great good fortune to see the citadel's copy of lives of four kings, prince oberyn was telling her lord husband. the illuminations were wondrous to behold, but kaeth was too kind by half to king viserys. tyrion gave him a sharp look. too kind? he scants viserys shamefully, in my view. it should have been lives of five kings. the prince laughed. viserys hardly reigned a fortnight. he reigned more than a year, said tyrion. oberyn gave a shrug. a year or a fortnight, what does it matter? he poisoned his own nephew to gain the throne and then did nothing once he had it. baelor starved himself to death, fasting, said tyrion. his uncle served him loyally as hand, as he had served the young dragon before him. viserys might only have reigned a year, but he ruled for fifteen, while daeron warred and baelor prayed. he made a sour face. and if he did remove his nephew, can you blame him? someone had to save the realm from baelor's follies. sansa was shocked. but baelor the blessed was a great king. he walked the boneway barefoot to make peace with dome, and rescued the dragonknight from a snakepit. the vipers refused to strike him because he was so pure and holy. prince oberyn smiled. if you were a viper, my lady, would you want to bite a bloodless stick like baelor the blessed? i'd sooner save my fangs for someone juicier... my prince is playing with you, lady sansa, said the woman ellaria sand. the septons and singers like to say that the snakes did not bite baelor, but the truth is very different. he was bitten half a hundred times, and should have died from it. if he had, viserys would have reigned a dozen years, said tyrion, and the seven kingdoms might have been better served. some believe baelor was deranged by all that venom. yes, said prince oberyn, but i've seen no snakes in this red keep of yours. so how do you account for joffrey? i prefer not to. tyrion inclined his head stiffly. if you will excuse us. our litter awaits. the dwarf helped sansa up inside and clambered awkwardly after her. close the curtains, my lady, if you'd be so good. must we, my lord? sansa did not want to be shut behind the curtains. the day is so lovely. the good people of king's landing are like to throw dung at the litter if they see me inside it. do us both a kindness, my lady. close the curtains. she did as he bid her. they sat for a time, as the air grew warm and stuffy around them. i was sorry about your book, my lord, she made herself say. it was joffrey's book. he might have learned a thing or two if he'd read it. he sounded distracted. i should have known better. i should have seen... a good many things. perhaps the dagger will please him more. when the dwarf grimaced, his scar tightened and twisted. the boy's earned himself a dagger, wouldn't you say? thankfully tyrion did not wait for her reply. jo ff quarreled with your brother robb at winterfell. tell me, was there ill feeling between bran and his grace as well? bran? the question confused her. before he fell, you mean? she had to try and think back. it was all so long ago. bran was a sweet boy. everyone loved him. he and tommen fought with wooden swords, i remember, but just for play. tyrion lapsed back into moody silence. sansa heard the distant clank of chains from outside; the portcullis was being drawn up. a moment later there was a shout, and their litter swayed into motion. deprived of the passing scenery, she chose to stare at her folded hands, uncomfortably aware of her husand's mismatched eyes. why is he looking at me that way? you loved your brothers, much as i love jaime. is this some lannister trap to make me speak treason? my brothers were traitors, and they've gone to traitors' graves. it is treason to love a traitor. her little husband snorted. robb rose in arms against his rightful king. by law, that made him a traitor. the others died too young to know what treason was. he rubbed his nose. sansa, do you know what happened to bran at winterfell? bran fell. he was always climbing things, and finally he fell. we always feared he would. and theon greyjoy killed him, but that was later. theon greyjoy. tyrion sighed. your lady mother once accused me... well, i will not burden you with the ugly details. she accused me falsely. i never harmed your brother bran. and i mean no harm to you. what does he want me to say? that is good to know, my lord. he wanted something from her, but sansa did not know what it was. he looks like a starving child, but i have no food to give him. why won't he leave me be? tyrion rubbed at his scarred, scabby nose yet again, an ugly habit that drew the eye to his ugly face. you have never asked me how robb died, or your lady mother. i... would sooner not know. it would give me bad dreams. then i will say no more. that... that's kind of you. oh, yes, said tyrion. i am the very soul of kindness. and i know about bad dreams. far across the city, a bell began to toll. sansa felt as though she were in a dream. joffrey is dead, she told the trees, to see if that would wake her. he had not been dead when she left the throne room. he had been on his knees, though, clawing at his throat, tearing at his own skin as he fought to breathe. the sight of it had been too terrible to watch, and she had turned and fled, sobbing. lady tanda had been fleeing as well. you have a good heart, my lady, she said to sansa. not every maid would weep so for a man who set her aside and wed her to a dwarf. a good heart. i have a good heart. hysterical laughter rose up her gullet, but sansa choked it back down. the bells were ringing, slow and mournful. ringing, ringing, ringing. they had rung for king robert the same way. joffrey was dead, he was dead, he was dead, dead, dead. why was she crying, when she wanted to dance? were they tears of joy? she found her clothes where she had hidden them, the night before last. with no maids to help her, it took her longer than it should have to undo the laces of her gown. her hands were strangely clumsy, though she was not as frightened as she ought to have been. the gods are cruel to take him so young and handsome, at his own wedding feast, lady tanda had said to her. the gods are just, thought sansa. robb had died at a wedding feast as well. it was robb she wept for. him and margaery. poor margaery, twice wed and twice widowed. sansa slid her arm from a sleeve, pushed down the gown, and wriggled out of it. she balled it up and shoved it into the bole of an oak, shook out the clothing she had hidden there. dress warmly, ser dontos had told her, and dress dark. she had no blacks, so she chose a dress of thick brown wool. the bodice was decorated with freshwater pearls, though. the cloak will cover them. the cloak was a deep green, with a large hood. she slipped the dress over her head, and donned the cloak, though she left the hood down for the moment. there were shoes as well, simple and sturdy, with flat heels and square toes. the gods heard my prayer, she thought. she felt so numb and dreamy. my skin has turned to porcelain, to ivory, to steel. her hands moved stiffly, awkwardly, as if they had never let down her hair before. for a moment she wished shae was there, to help her with the net. when she pulled it free, her long auburn hair cascaded down her back and across her shoulders. the web of spun silver hung from her fingers, the fine metal glimmering softly, the stones black in the moonlight. black amethysts from asshai. one of them was missing. sansa lifted the net for a closer look. there was a dark smudge in the silver socket where the stone had fallen out. a sudden terror filled her. her heart hammered against her ribs, and for an instant she held her breath. why am i so scared, it's only an amethyst, a black amethyst from asshai, no more than that. it must have been loose in the setting, that's all. it was loose and it fell out, and now it's lying somewhere in the throne room, or in the yard, unless... ser dontos had said the hair net was magic, that it would take her home. he told her she must wear it tonight at joffrey's wedding feast. the silver wire stretched tight across her knuckles. her thumb rubbed back and forth against the hole where the stone had been. she tried to stop, but her fingers were not her own. her thumb was drawn to the hole as the tongue is drawn to a missing tooth. what kind of magic? the king was dead, the cruel king who had been her gallant prince a thousand years ago. if dontos had lied about the hair net, had he lied about the rest as well? what if he never comes? what if there is no ship, no boat on the river, no escape? what would happen to her then? she heard a faint rustle of leaves, and stuffed the silver hair net down deep in the pocket of her cloak. who's there? she cried. who is it? the godswood was dim and dark, and the bells were ringing jo ff into his grave. me. he staggered out from under the trees, reeling drunk. he caught her arm to steady himself. sweet jonquil, i've come. your florian has come, don't be afraid. sansa pulled away from his touch. you said i must wear the hair net. the silver net with... what sort of stones are those? amethysts. black amethysts from asshai, my lady. they're no amethysts. are they? are they? you lied. black amethysts, he swore. there was magic in them. there was murder in them! softly, my lady, softly. no murder. he choked on his pigeon pie. dontos chortled. oh, tasty tasty pie. silver and stones, that's all it was, silver and stone and magic. the bells were tolling, and the wind was making a noise like he had made as he tried to suck a breath of air. you poisoned him. you did. you took a stone from my hair... hush, you'll be the death of us. i did nothing. come, we must away, they'll search for you. your husband's been arrested. tyrion? she said, shocked. do you have another husband? the imp, the dwarf uncle, she thinks he did it. he grabbed her hand and pulled at her. this way, we must away, quickly now, have no fear. sansa followed unresisting. i could never abide the weeping of women, joff once said, but his mother was the only woman weeping now. in old nan's stories the grumkins crafted magic things that could make a wish come true. did i wish him dead? she wondered, before she remembered that she was too old to believe in grumkins. tyrion poisoned him? her dwarf husband had hated his nephew, she knew. could he truly have killed him? did he know about my hair net, about the black amethysts? he brought joff wine. how could you make someone choke by putting an amethyst in their wine? if tyrion did it, they will think i was part of it as well, she realized with a start of fear. how not? they were man and wife, and joff had killed her father and mocked her with her brother's death. one flesh, one heart, one soul. be quiet now, my sweetling, said dontos. outside the godswood, we must make no sound. pull up your hood and hide your face. sansa nodded, and did as he said. he was so drunk that sometimes sansa had to lend him her arm to keep him from falling. the bells were ringing out across the city, more and more of them joining in. she kept her head down and stayed in the shadows, close behind dontos. while descending the serpentine steps he stumbled to his knees and retched. my poor florian, she thought, as he wiped his mouth with a floppy sleeve. dress dark, he'd said, yet under his brown hooded cloak he was wearing his old surcoat; red and pink horizontal stripes beneath a black chief bearing three gold crowns, the arms of house ho hard. why are you wearing your surcoat? jo ff decreed it was death if you were caught dressed as a knight again, he... oh... nothing joff had decreed mattered any longer. i wanted to be a knight. for this, at least. dontos lurched back to his feet and took her arm. come. be quiet now, no questions. they continued down the serpentine and across a small sunken courtyard. ser dontos shoved open a heavy door and lit a taper. they were inside a long gallery. along the walls stood empty suits of armor, dark and dusty, their helms crested with rows of scales that continued down their backs. as they hurried past, the taper's light made the shadows of each scale stretch and twist. the hollow knights are turning into dragons, she thought. one more stair took them to an oaken door banded with iron. be strong now, my jonquil, you are almost there. when dontos lifted the bar and pulled open the door, sansa felt a cold breeze on her face, she passed through twelve feet of wall, and then she was outside the castle, standing at the top of the cliff. below was the river, above the sky, and one was as black as the other. we must climb down, ser dontos said. at the bottom, a man is waiting to row us out to the ship. i'll fall. bran had fallen, and he had loved to climb. no you won't. there's a sort of ladder, a secret ladder, carved into the stone. here, you can feel it, my lady. he got down on his knees with her and made her lean over the edge of the cliff, groping with her fingers until she found the handhold cut into the face of the bluff. almost as good as rungs. even so, it was a long way down. i can't. you must. isn't there another way? this is the way. it won't be so hard for a strong young girl like you. hold on tight and never look down and you'll be at the bottom in no time at all. his eyes were shiny. your poor florian is fat and old and drunk, i'm the one should be afraid. i used to fall off my horse, don't you remember? that was how we began. i was drunk and fell off my horse and joffrey wanted my fool head, but you saved me. you saved me, sweetling. he's weeping, she realized. and now you have saved me. only if you go. if not, i have killed us both. it was him, she thought. he killed joffrey. she had to go, for him as much as for herself. you go first, ser. if he did fall, she did not want him falling down on her head and knocking both of them off the cliff. as you wish, my lady. he gave her a sloppy kiss and swung his legs clumsily over the precipice, kicking about until he found a foothold. let me get down a bit, and come after. you will come now? you must swear it. i'll come, she promised. ser dontos disappeared. she could hear him huffing and puffing as he began the descent. sansa listened to the tolling of the bell, counting each ring. at ten, gingerly, she eased herself over the edge of the cliff, poking with her toes until they found a place to rest. the castle walls loomed large above her, and for a moment she wanted nothing so much as to pull herself up and run back to her warm rooms in the kitchen keep. be brave, she told herself. be brave, like a lady in a song. sansa dared not look down. she kept her eyes on the face of the cliff, making certain of each step before reaching for the next. the stone was rough and cold. sometimes she could feel her fingers slipping, and the handholds were not as evenly spaced as she would have liked. the bells would not stop ringing. before she was halfway down her arms were trembling and she knew that she was going to fall. one more step, she told herself, one more step. she had to keep moving. if she stopped, she would never start again, and dawn would find her still clinging to the cliff, frozen in fear. one more step, and one more step. the ground took her by surprise. she stumbled and fell, her heart pounding. when she rolled onto her back and stared up at from where she had come, her head swam dizzily and her fingers clawed at the dirt. i did it. i did it, i didn't fall, i made the climb and now i'm going home. ser dontos pulled her back onto her feet. this way. quiet now, quiet, quiet. he stayed close to the shadows that lay black and thick beneath the cliffs. thankfully they did not have to go far. fifty yards downriver, a man sat in a small skiff, half- hidden by the remains of a great galley that had gone aground there and burned. dontos limped up to him, puffing. oswell? no names, the man said. in the boat. he sat hunched over his oars, an old man, tall and gangling, with long white hair and a great hooked nose, with eyes shaded by a cowl. get in, be quick about it, he muttered. we need to be away. when both of them were safe aboard, the cowled man slid the blades into the water and put his back into the oars, rowing them out toward the channel. behind them the bells were still tolling the boy king's death. they had the dark river all to themselves. with slow, steady, rhythmic strokes, they threaded their way downstream, sliding above the sunken galleys, past broken masts, burned hulls, and torn sails. the oarlocks had been muffled, so they moved almost soundlessly. a mist was rising over the water. sansa saw the embattled ramparts of one of the imp's winch towers looming above, but the great chain had been lowered, and they rowed unimpeded past the spot where a thousand men had burned. the shore fell away, the fog grew thicker, the sound of the bells began to fade. finally even the lights were gone, lost somewhere behind them. they were out in blackwater bay, and the world shrank to dark water, blowing mist, and their silent companion stooped over the oars. how far must we go? she asked. no talk. the oarsman was old, but stronger than he looked, and his voice was fierce. there was something oddly familiar about his face, though sansa could not say what it was. not far. ser dontos took her hand in his own and rubbed it gently. your friend is near, waiting for you. no talk! the oarsman growled again. sound carries over water, ser fool. abashed, sansa bit her lip and huddled down in silence. the rest was rowing, rowing, rowing. the eastern sky was vague with the first hint of dawn when sansa finally saw a ghostly shape in the darkness ahead; a trading galley, her sails furled, moving slowly on a single bank of oars. as they drew closer, she saw the ship's figurehead, a merman with a golden crown blowing on a great seashell horn. she heard a voice cry out, and the galley swung slowly about. as they came alongside, the galley dropped a rope ladder over the rail. the rower shipped the oars and helped sansa to her feet. up now. go on, girl, i got you. sansa thanked him for his kindness, but received no answer but a grunt. it was much easier going up the rope ladder than it had been coming down the cliff. the oarsman oswell followed close behind her, while ser dontos remained in the boat. two sailors were waiting by the rail to help her onto the deck. sansa was trembling. she's cold, she heard someone say. he took off his cloak and put it around her shoulders. there, is that better, my lady? rest easy, the worst is past and done. she knew the voice. but he's in the vale, she thought. ser lothor brune stood beside him with a torch. lord petyr, dontos called from the boat. i must needs row back, before they think to look for me. petyr baelish put a hand on the rail. but first you'll want your payment. ten thousand dragons, was it? ten thousand. dontos rubbed his mouth with the back of his hand. as you promised, my lord. ser lothor, the reward. lothor brune dipped his torch. three men stepped to the gunwale, raised crossbows, fired. one bolt took dontos in the chest as he looked up, punching through the left crown on his surcoat. the others ripped into throat and belly. it happened so quickly neither dontos nor sansa had time to cry out. when it was done, lothor brune tossed the torch down on top of the corpse. the little boat was blazing fiercely as the galley moved away. you killed him. clutching the rail, sansa turned away and retched. had she escaped the lannisters to tumble into worse? my lady, littlefinger murmured, your grief is wasted on such a man as that. he was a sot, and no man's friend. but he saved me. he sold you for a promise often thousand dragons. your disappearance will make them suspect you in joffrey's death. the gold cloaks will hunt, and the eunuch will jingle his purse. dontos... well, you heard him. he sold you for gold, and when he'd drunk it up he would have sold you again. a bag of dragons buys a man's silence for a while, but a well-placed quarrel buys it forever. he smiled sadly. all he did he did at my behest. i dared not befriend you openly. when i heard how you saved his life at joff 's tourney, i knew he would be the perfect catspaw. sansa felt sick. he said he was my florian. do you perchance recall what i said to you that day your father sat the iron throne? the moment came back to her vividly. you told me that life was not a song. that i would learn that one day, to my sorrow. she felt tears in her eyes, but whether she wept for ser dontos hollard, for joff, for tyrion, or for herself, sansa could not say. is it all lies, forever and ever, everyone and everything? almost everyone. save you and i, of course. he smiled. come to the godswood tonight if you want to go home. the note... it was you? it had to be the godswood. no other place in the red keep is safe from the eunuch's little birds... or little rats, as i call them. there are trees in the godswood instead of walls. sky above instead of ceiling. roots and dirt and rock in place of floor. the rats have no place to scurry. rats need to hide, lest men skewer them with swords. lord petyr took her arm. let me show you to your cabin. you have had a long and trying day, i know. you must be weary. already the little boat was no more than a swirl of smoke and fire behind them, almost lost in the immensity of the dawn sea. there was no going back; her only road was forward. very weary, she admitted. as he led her below, he said, tell me of the feast. the queen took such pains. the singers, the jugglers, the dancing bear... did your little lord husband enjoy my jousting dwarfs? yours? i had to send to braavos for them and hide them away in a brothel until the wedding. the expense was exceeded only by the bother. it is surprisingly difficult to hide a dwarf, and joffrey... you can lead a king to water, but with joff one had to splash it about before he realized he could drink it. when i told him about my little surprise, his grace said, 'why would i want some ugly dwarfs at my feast? i hate dwarfs.' i had to take him by the shoulder and whisper, 'not as much as your uncle will, the deck rocked beneath her feet, and sansa felt as if the world itself had grown unsteady. they think tyrion poisoned joffrey. ser dontos said they seized him. littlefinger smiled. widowhood will become you, sansa. the thought made her tummy flutter. she might never need to share a bed with tyrion again. that was what she'd wanted... wasn't it? the cabin was low and cramped, but a featherbed had been laid upon the narrow sleeping shelf to make it more comfortable, and thick furs piled atop it. it will be snug, i know, but you shouldn't be too uncomfortable. littlefinger pointed out a cedar chest under the porthole. you'll find fresh garb within. dresses, smallclothes, warm stockings, a cloak. wool and linen only, i fear. unworthy of a maid so beautiful, but they'll serve to keep you dry and clean until we can find you something finer. he had this all prepared for me. my lord, i... i do not understand... joffrey gave you harrenhal, made you lord paramount of the trident... why... why should i wish him dead? little finger shrugged. i had no motive. besides, i am a thousand leagues away in the vale. always keep your foes confused. if they are never certain who you are or what you want, they cannot know what you are like to do next. sometimes the best way to baffle them is to make moves that have no purpose, or even seem to work against you. remember that, sansa, when you come to play the game. what... what game? the only game. the game of thrones. he brushed back a strand of her hair. you are old enough to know that your mother and i were more than friends. there was a time when cat was all i wanted in this world. i dared to dream of the life we might make and the children she would give me... but she was a daughter of riverrun, and hoster tully. family, duty, honor, sansa. family, duty, honor meant i could never have her hand. but she gave me something finer, a gift a woman can give but once. how could i turn my back upon her daughter? in a better world, you might have been mine, not eddard stark's. my loyal loving daughter... put joffrey from your mind, sweetling. dontos, tyrion, all of them. they will never trouble you again. you are safe now, that's all that matters. you are safe with me, and sailing home. the ladder to the forecastle was steep and splintery, so sansa accepted a hand up from lothor brune. ser lothor, she had to remind herself; the man had been knighted for his valor in the battle of the blackwater. though no proper knight would wear those patched brown breeches and scuffed boots, nor that cracked and waterstained leather jerkin. a square- faced stocky man with a squashed nose and a mat of nappy grey hair, brune spoke seldom. he is stronger than he looks, though. she could tell by the ease with which he lifted her, as if she weighed nothing at all. off the bow of the merling king stretched a bare and stony strand, windswept, treeless, and uninviting. even so, it made a welcome sight. they had been a long while clawing their way back on course. the last storm had swept them out of sight of land, and sent such waves crashing over the sides of the galley that sansa had been certain they were all going to drown. two men had been swept overboard, she had heard old oswell saying, and another had fallen from the mast and broken his neck. she had seldom ventured out on deck herself. her little cabin was dank and cold, but sansa had been sick for most of the voyage... sick with terror, sick with fever, or seasick... she could keep nothing down, and even sleep came hard. whenever she closed her eyes she saw joffrey tearing at his collar, clawing at the soft skin of his throat, dying with flakes of pie crust on his lips and wine stains on his doublet. and the wind keening in the lines reminded her of the terrible thin sucking sound he'd made as he fought to draw in air. sometimes she dreamed of tyrion as well. he did nothing, she told little finger once, when he paid a visit to her cabin to see if she were feeling any better. he did not kill joffrey, true, but the dwarfs hands are far from clean. he had a wife before you, did you know that? he told me. and did he tell you that when he grew bored with her, he made a gift of her to his father's guardsmen? he might have done the same to you, in time. shed no tears for the imp, my lady. the wind ran salty fingers through her hair, and sansa shivered. even this close to shore, the rolling of the ship made her tummy queasy. she desperately needed a bath and a change of clothes. i must look as haggard as a corpse, and smell of vomit. lord petyr came up beside her, cheerful as ever. good morrow. the salt air is bracing, don't you think? it always sharpens my appetite. he put a sympathetic arm about her shoulders. are you quite well? you look so pale. it's only my tummy. the seasickness. a little wine will be good for that. we'll get you a cup, as soon as we're ashore. petyr pointed to where an old flint tower stood outlined against a bleak grey sky, the breakers crashing on the rocks beneath it. cheerful, is it not? i fear there's no safe anchorage here. we'll put ashore in a boat. here? she did not want to go ashore here. the fingers were a dismal place, she'd heard, and there was something forlorn and desolate about the little tower. couldn't i stay on the ship until we make sail for white harbor? from here the king turns east for braavos. without us. but... my lord, you said... you said we were sailing home. and there it stands, miserable as it is. my ancestral home. it has no name, i fear. a great lord's seat ought to have a name, wouldn't you agree? winterfell, the eyrie, riverrun, those are castles. lord of harrenhal now, that has a sweet ring to it, but what was i before? lord of sheepshit and master of the drearfort? it lacks a certain something. his grey-green eyes regarded her innocently. you look distraught. did you think we were making for winterfell, sweetling? winterfell has been taken, burned, and sacked. all those you knew and loved are dead. what northmen who have not fallen to the ironmen are warring amongst themselves. even the wall is under attack. winterfell was the home of your childhood, sansa, but you are no longer a child. you're a woman grown, and you need to make your own home. but not here, she said, dismayed. it looks so... ... small and bleak and mean? it's all that, and less. the fingers are a lovely place, if you happen to be a stone. but have no fear, we shan't stay more than a fortnight. i expect your aunt is already riding to meet us. he smiled. the lady lysa and i are to be wed. wed? sansa was stunned. you and my aunt? the lord of harrenhal and the lady of the eyrie. you said it was my mother you loved. but of course lady catelyn was dead, so even if she had loved petyr secretly and given him her maidenhood, it made no matter now. so silent, my lady? said petyr. i was certain you would wish to give me your blessing. it is a rare thing for a boy born heir to stones and sheep pellets to wed the daughter of hoster tully and the widow of jon arryn. i... i pray you will have long years together, and many children, and be very happy in one another. it had been years since sansa last saw her mother's sister. she will be kind to me for my mother's sake, surely. she's my own blood. and the vale of arryn was beautiful, all the songs said so. perhaps it would not be so terrible to stay here for a time. lothor and old oswell rowed them ashore. sansa huddled in the bow under her cloak with the hood drawn up against the wind, wondering what awaited her. servants emerged from the tower to meet them; a thin old woman and a fat middle-aged one, two ancient white-haired men, and a girl of two or three with a sty on one eye. when they recognized lord petyr they knelt on the rocks. my household, he said. i don't know the child. another of kella's bastards, i suppose. she pops one out every few years. the two old men waded out up to their thighs to lift sansa from the boat so she would not get her skirts wet. oswell and lothor splashed their way ashore, as did littlefinger himself. he gave the old woman a kiss on the cheek and grinned at the younger one. who fathered this one, kella? the fat woman laughed. i can't rightly say, m'lord. i'm not one for telling them no. and all the local lads are grateful, i am quite sure. it is good to have you home, my lord, said one old man. he looked to be at least eighty, but he wore a studded brigantine and a longsword at his side. how long will you be in residence? as short a time as possible, bryen, have no fear. is the place habitable just now, would you say? if we knew you was coming we would have laid down fresh rushes, m'lord, said the crone. there's a dung fire burning. nothing says home like the smell of burning dung. petyr turned to sansa. grisel was my wet nurse, but she keeps my castle now. umfred's my steward, and bryen - didn't i name you captain of the guard the last time i was here? you did, my lord. you said you'd be getting some more men too, but you never did. me and the dogs stand all the watches. and very well, i'm sure. no one has made off with any of my rocks or sheep pellets, i see that plainly. petyr gestured toward the fat woman. kella minds my vast herds. how many sheep do i have at present, kella? she had to think a moment. three and twenty, m'lord. there was nine and twenty, but bryen's dogs killed one and we butchered some others and salted down the meat. ah, cold salt mutton. i must be home. when i break my fast on gulls' eggs and seaweed soup, i'll be certain of it. if you like, m'lord, said the old woman grisel. lord petyr made a face. come, let's see if my hall is as dreary as i recall. he led them up the strand over rocks slick with rotting seaweed. a handful of sheep were wandering about the base of the flint tower, grazing on the thin grass that grew between the sheepfold and thatched stable. sansa had to step carefully; there were pellets everywhere. within, the tower seemed even smaller. an open stone stair wound round the inside wall, from undercroft to roof. each floor was but a single room. the servants lived and slept in the kitchen at ground level, sharing the space with a huge brindled mastiff and a half-dozen sheepdogs. above that was a modest hall, and higher still the bedchamber. there were no windows, but arrowslits were embedded in the outer wall at intervals along the curve of the stair. above the hearth hung a broken longsword and a battered oaken shield, its paint cracked and flaking. the device painted on the shield was one sansa did not know; a grey stone head with fiery eyes, upon a light green field. my grandfather's shield, petyr explained when he saw her gazing at it. his own father was born in braavos and came to the vale as a sellsword in the hire of lord corbray, so my grandfather took the head of the titan as his sigil when he was knighted. it's very fierce, said sansa. rather too fierce, for an amiable fellow like me, said petyr. i much prefer my mockingbird. oswell made two more trips out to the merling king to offload provisions. among the loads he brought ashore were several casks of wine. petyr poured sansa a cup, as promised. here, my lady, that should help your tummy, i would hope. having solid ground beneath her feet had helped already, but sansa dutifully lifted the goblet with both hands and took a sip. the wine was very fine; an arbor vintage, she thought, it tasted of oak and fruit and hot summer nights, the flavors blossoming in her mouth like flowers opening to the sun. she only prayed that she could keep it down. lord petyr was being so kind, she did not want to spoil it all by retching on him. he was studying her over his own goblet, his bright grey-green eyes full of... was it amusement? or something else? sansa was not certain. grisel, he called to the old woman, bring some food up. nothing too heavy, my lady has a tender tummy. some fruit might serve, perhaps. oswell's brought some oranges and pomegranates from the king. yes, m'lord. might i have a hot bath as well? asked sansa. i'll have kella draw some water, m'lady. sansa took another sip of wine and tried to think of some polite conversation, but lord petyr saved her the effort. when grisel and the other servants had gone, he said, lysa will not come alone. before she arrives, we must be clear on who you are. who i... i don't understand. varys has informers everywhere. if sansa stark should be seen in the vale, the eunuch will know within a moon's turn, and that would create unfortunate... complications. it is not safe to be a stark just now. so we shall tell lysa's people that you are my natural daughter. natural? sansa was aghast. you mean, a bastard? well, you can scarcely be my trueborn daughter. i've never taken a wife, that's well known. what should you be called? i... i could call myself after my mother... catelyn? a bit too obvious... but after my mother, that would serve. alayne. do you like it? alayne is pretty. sansa hoped she would remember. but couldn't i be the trueborn daughter of some knight in your service? perhaps he died gallantly in the battle, and... i have no gallant knights in my service, alayne. such a tale would draw unwanted questions as a corpse draws crows. it is rude to pry into the origins of a man's natural children, however. he cocked his head. so, who are you? alayne... stone, would it be? when he nodded, she said, but who is my mother? kella? please no, she said, mortified. i was teasing. your mother was a gentlewoman of braavos, daughter of a merchant prince. we met in gulltown when i had charge of the port. she died giving you birth, and entrusted you to the faith. i have some devotional books you can look over. learn to quote from them. nothing discourages unwanted questions as much as a flow of pious bleating. in any case, at your flowering you decided you did not wish to be a septa and wrote to me. that was the first i knew of your existence. he fingered his beard. do you think you can remember all that? i hope. it will be like playing a game, won't it? are you fond of games, alayne? the new name would take some getting used to. games? i... i suppose it would depend... grisel reappeared before he could say more, balancing a large platter. she set it down between them. there were apples and pears and pomegranates, some sad-looking grapes, a huge blood orange. the old woman had brought a round of bread as well, and a crock of butter. petyr cut a pomegranate in two with his dagger, offering half to sansa. you should try and eat, my lady. thank you, my lord. pomegranate seeds were so messy; sansa chose a pear instead, and took a small delicate bite. it was very ripe. the juice ran down her chin. lord petyr loosened a seed with the point of his dagger. you must miss your father terribly, i know. lord eddard was a brave man, honest and loyal... but quite a hopeless player. he brought the seed to his mouth with the knife. in king's landing, there are two sorts of people. the players and the pieces. and i was a piece? she dreaded the answer. yes, but don't let that trouble you. you're still half a child. every man's a piece to start with, and every maid as well. even some who think they are players. he ate another seed. cersei, for one. she thinks herself sly, but in truth she is utterly predictable. her strength rests on her beauty, birth, and riches. only the first of those is truly her own, and it will soon desert her. i pity her then. she wants power, but has no notion what to do with it when she gets it. everyone wants something, alayne. and when you know what a man wants you know who he is, and how to move him. as you moved ser dontos to poison joffrey? it had to have been dontos, she had concluded. littlefinger laughed. ser dontos the red was a skin of wine with legs. he could never have been trusted with a task of such enormity. he would have bungled it or betrayed me. no, all dontos had to do was lead you from the castle... and make certain you wore your silver hair net. the black amethysts. but... if not dontos, who? do you have other... pieces? you could turn king's landing upside down and not find a single man with a mockingbird sewn over his heart, but that does not mean i am friendless. petyr went to the steps. oswell, come up here and let the lady sansa have a look at you. the old man appeared a few moments later, grinning and bowing. sansa eyed him uncertainly. what am i supposed to see? do you know him? asked petyr. no. look closer. she studied the old man's lined windburnt face, hook nose, white hair, and huge knuckly hands. there was something familiar about him, yet sansa had to shake her head. i don't. i never saw oswell before i got into his boat, i'm certain. oswell grinned, showing a mouth of crooked teeth. no, but m'lady might of met my three sons. it was the three sons, and that smile too. kettleblack! sansa's eyes went wide. you're a kettleblack! aye, m'lady, as it please you. she's beside herself with joy. lord petyr dismissed him with a wave, and returned to the pomegranate again as oswell shuffled down the steps. tell me, alayne - which is more dangerous, the dagger brandished by an enemy, or the hidden one pressed to your back by someone you never even see? the hidden dagger. there's a clever girl. he smiled, his thin lips bright red from the pomegranate seeds. when the imp sent off her guards, the queen had ser lancel hire sellswords for her. lancel found her the kettleblacks, which delighted your little lord husband, since the lads were in his pay through his man bronn. he chuckled. but it was me who told oswell to get his sons to king's landing when i learned that bronn was looking for swords. three hidden daggers, alayne, now perfectly placed. so one of the kettleblacks put the poison in joff 's cup? ser osmund had been near the king all night, she remembered. did i say that? lord petyr cut the blood orange in two with his dagger and offered half to sansa. the lads are far too treacherous to be part of any such scheme... and osmund has become especially unreliable since he joined the kingsguard. that white cloak does things to a man, i find. even a man like him. he tilted his chin back and squeezed the blood orange, so the juice ran down into his mouth. i love the juice but i loathe the sticky fingers, he complained, wiping his hands. clean hands, sansa. whatever you do, make certain your hands are clean. sansa spooned up some juice from her own orange. but if it wasn't the kettleblacks and it wasn't ser dontos... you weren't even in the city, and it couldn't have been tyrion... no more guesses, sweetling? she shook her head. i don't... petyr smiled. i will wager you that at some point during the evening someone told you that your hair net was crooked and straightened it for you. sansa raised a hand to her mouth. you cannot mean... she wanted to take me to highgarden, to marry me to her grandson... gentle, pious, good-hearted willas tyrell. be grateful you were spared, he would have bored you spitless. the old woman is not boring, though, i'll grant her that. a fearsome old harridan, and not near as frail as she pretends. when i came to highgarden to dicker for margaery's hand, she let her lord son bluster while she asked pointed questions about joffrey's nature. i praised him to the skies, to be sure... whilst my men spread disturbing tales amongst lord tyrell's servants. that is how the game is played. i also planted the notion of ser loras taking the white. not that i suggested it, that would have been too crude. but men in my party supplied grisly tales about how the mob had killed ser preston greenfield and raped the lady lollys, and slipped a few silvers to lord tyrell's army of singers to sing of ryam redwyne, serwyn of the mirror shield, and prince aemon the dragonknight. a harp can be as dangerous as a sword, in the right hands. mace tyrell actually thought it was his own idea to make ser loras's inclusion in the kingsguard part of the marriage contract. who better to protect his daughter than her splendid knightly brother? and it relieved him of the difficult task of trying to find lands and a bride for a third son, never easy, and doubly difficult in ser loras's case. be that as it may. lady olenna was not about to let jo ff harm her precious darling granddaughter, but unlike her son she also realized that under all his flowers and finery, ser loras is as hot-tempered as jaime lannister. toss joffrey, margaery, and loras in a pot, and you've got the makings for kingslayer stew. the old woman understood something else as well. her son was determined to make margaery a queen, and for that he needed a king... but he did not need joffrey. we shall have another wedding soon, wait and see. margaery will marry tommen. she'll keep her queenly crown and her maidenhead, neither of which she especially wants, but what does that matter? the great western alliance will be preserved... for a time, at least. margaery and tommen. sansa did not know what to say. she had liked margaery tyrell, and her small sharp grandmother as well. she thought wistfully of highgarden with its courtyards and musicians, and the pleasure barges on the mander; a far cry from this bleak shore. at least i am safe here. joffrey is dead, he cannot hurt me anymore, and i am only a bastard girl now alayne stone has no husband and no claim. and her aunt would soon be here as well. the long nightmare of king's landing was behind her, and her mockery of a marriage as well. she could make herself a new home here, just as petyr said. it was eight long days until lysa arryn arrived. on five of them it rained, while sansa sat bored and restless by the fire, beside the old blind dog. he was too sick and toothless to walk guard with bryen anymore, and mostly all he did was sleep, but when she patted him he whined and licked her hand, and after that they were fast friends. when the rains let up, petyr walked with her around his holdings, which took less than half a day. he owned a lot of rocks, just as he had said. there was one place where the tide came jetting up out of a blowhole to shoot thirty feet into the air, and another where someone had chiseled the seven-pointed star of the new gods upon a boulder. petyr said that marked one of the places the andals had landed, when they came across the sea to wrest the vale from the first men. farther inland a dozen families lived in huts of piled stone beside a peat bog. mine own smallfolk, petyr said, though only the oldest seemed to know him. there was a hermit's cave on his land as well, but no hermit. he's dead now, but when i was a boy my father took me to see him. the man had not washed in forty years, so you can imagine how he smelled, but supposedly he had the gift of prophecy. he groped me a bit and said i would be a great man, and for that my father gave him a skin of wine. petyr snorted. i would have told him the same thing for half a cup. finally, on a grey windy afternoon, bryen came running back to the tower with his dogs barking at his heels, to announce that riders were approaching from the southwest. lysa, lord petyr said. come, alayne, let us greet her. they put on their cloaks and waited outside. the riders numbered no more than a score; a very modest escort, for the lady of the eyrie. three maids rode with her, and a dozen household knights in mail and plate. she brought a septon as well, and a handsome singer with a wisp of a mustache and long sandy curls. could that be my aunt? lady lysa was two years younger than mother, but this woman looked ten years older. thick auburn tresses fell down past her waist, but beneath the costly velvet gown and jeweled bodice her body sagged and bulged. her face was pink and painted, her breasts heavy, her limbs thick. she was taller than littlefinger, and heavier; nor did she show any grace in the clumsy way she climbed down off her horse. petyr knelt to kiss her fingers. the king's small council commanded me to woo and win you, my lady. do you think you might have me for your lord and husband? lady lysa pooched her lips and pulled him up to plant a kiss upon his cheek. oh, mayhaps i could be persuaded. she giggled. have you brought gifts to melt my heart? the king's peace. oh, poo to the peace, what else have you brought me? my daughter. littlefinger beckoned sansa forward with a hand. my lady, allow me to present you alayne stone. lysa arryn did not seem greatly pleased to see her. sansa did a deep curtsy, her head bowed. a bastard? she heard her aunt say. petyr, have you been wicked? who was her mother? the wench is dead. i'd hoped to take alayne to the eyrie. what am i to do with her there? i have a few notions, said lord petyr. but just now i am more interested in what i might do with you, my lady. all the sternness melted off her aunt's round pink face, and for a moment sansa thought lysa arryn was about to cry. sweet petyr, i've missed you so, you don't know, you can't know. yohn royce has been stirring up all sorts of trouble, demanding that i call my banners and go to war. and the others all swarm around me, hunter and corbray and that dreadful nestor royce, all wanting to wed me and take my son to ward, but none of them truly love me. only you, petyr. i've dreamed of you so long. and i of you, my lady. he slid an arm around behind her and kissed her on the neck. how soon can we be wed? now, said lady lysa, sighing. i've brought my own septon, and a singer, and mead for the wedding feast. here? that did not please him. i'd sooner wed you at the eyrie, with your whole court in attendance. poo to my court. i have waited so long, i could not bear to wait another moment. she put her arms around him. i want to share your bed tonight, my sweet. i want us to make another child, a brother for robert or a sweet little daughter. i dream of that as well, sweetling. yet there is much to be gained from a great public wedding, with all the vale - no. she stamped a foot. i want you now, this very night. and i must warn you, after all these years of silence and whisperings, i mean to scream when you love me. i am going to scream so loud they'll hear me in the eyrie! perhaps i could bed you now, and wed you later? the lady lysa giggled like a girl. oh, petyr baelish, you are so wicked. no, i say no, i am the lady of the eyrie, and i command you to wed me this very moment! petyr gave a shrug. as my lady commands, then. i am helpless before you, as ever. they said their vows within the hour, standing beneath a sky-blue canopy as the sun sank in the west. afterward trestle tables were set up beneath the small flint tower, and they feasted on quail, venison, and roast boar, washing it down with a fine light mead. torches were lit as dusk crept in. lysa's singer played the vow unspoken and seasons of my love and two hearts that beat as one. several younger knights even asked sansa to dance. her aunt danced as well, her skirts whirling when petyr spun her in his arms. mead and marriage had taken years off lady lysa. she laughed at everything so long as she held her husband's hand, and her eyes seemed to glow whenever she looked at him. when it was time for the bedding, her knights carried her up to the tower, stripping her as they went and shouting bawdy jests. tyrion spared me that, sansa remembered. it would not have been so bad being undressed for a man she loved, by friends who loved them both. by joffrey, though... she shuddered. her aunt had brought only three ladies with her, so they pressed sansa to help them undress lord petyr and march him up to his marriage bed. he submitted with good grace and a wicked tongue, giving as good as he got. by the time they had gotten him into the tower and out of his clothes, the other women were flushed, with laces unlaced, kirtles crooked, and skirts in disarray. but littlefinger only smiled at sansa as they marched him up to the bedchamber where his lady wife was waiting. lady lysa and lord petyr had the third-story bedchamber to themselves, but the tower was small... and true to her word, her aunt screamed. it had begun to rain outside, driving the feasters into the hall one floor below, so they heard most every word. petyr, her aunt moaned. oh, petyr, petyr, sweet petyr, oh oh oh. there, petyr, there. that's where you belong. lady lysa's singer launched into a bawdy version of milady's supper, but even his singing and playing could not drown out lysa's cries. make me a baby, petyr, she screamed, make me another sweet little baby. oh, petyr, my precious, my precious, peeeeeetyr! her last shriek was so loud that it set the dogs to barking, and two of her aunt's ladies could scarce contain their mirth. sansa went down the steps and out into the night. a light rain was falling on the remains of the feast, but the air smelled fresh and clean. the memory of her own wedding night with tyrion was much with her. in the dark, i am the knight of flowers, he had said. i could be good to you. but that was only another lannister lie. a dog can smell a lie, you know, the hound had told her once. she could almost hear the rough rasp of his voice. look around you, and take a good whiff. they're all liars here, and every one better than you. she wondered what had become of sandor clegane. did he know that they'd killed joffrey? would he care? he had been the prince's sworn shield for years. she stayed outside for a long time. when at last she sought her own bed, wet and chilled, only the dim glow of a peat fire lit the darkened hall. there was no sound from above. the young singer sat in a corner, playing a slow song to himself. one of her aunt's maids was kissing a knight in lord petyr's chair, their hands busy beneath each other's clothing. several men had drunk themselves to sleep, and one was in the privy, being noisily sick. sansa found bryen's old blind dog in her little alcove beneath the steps, and lay down next to him. he woke and licked her face. you sad old hound, she said, ruffling his fur. alayne. her aunt's singer stood over her. sweet alayne. i am marillion. i saw you come in from the rain. the night is chill and wet. let me warm you. the old dog raised his head and growled, but the singer gave him a cuff and sent him slinking off, whimpering. marillion? she said, uncertain. you are... kind to think of me, but... pray forgive me. i am very tired. and very beautiful. all night i have been making songs for you in my head. a lay for your eyes, a ballad for your lips, a duet to your breasts. i will not sing them, though. they were poor things, unworthy of such beauty. he sat on her bed and put his hand on her leg. let me sing to you with my body instead. she caught a whiff of his breath. you're drunk. i never get drunk. mead only makes me merry. i am on fire. his hand slipped up to her thigh. and you as well. unhand me. you forget yourself. mercy. i have been singing love songs for hours. my blood is stirred. and yours, i know... there's no wench half so lusty as one bastard born. are you wet for me? i'm a maiden, she protested. truly? oh, alayne, alayne, my fair maid, give me the gift of your innocence. you will thank the gods you did. i'll have you singing louder than the lady lysa. sansa jerked away from him, frightened. if you don't leave me, my au - my father will hang you. lord petyr. littlefinger? he chuckled. lady lysa loves me well, and i am lord robert's favorite. if your father offends me, i will destroy him with a verse. he put a hand on her breast, and squeezed. let's get you out of these wet clothes. you wouldn't want them ripped, i know. come, sweet lady, heed your heart - sansa heard the soft sound of steel on leather. singer, a rough voice said, best go, if you want to sing again. the light was dim, but she saw a faint glimmer of a blade. the singer saw it too. find your own wench - the knife flashed, and he cried out. you cut me! i'll do worse, if you don't go. and quick as that, marillion was gone. the other remained, looming over sansa in the darkness. lord petyr said watch out for you. it was lothor brune's voice, she realized. not the hound's, no, how could it be? of course it had to be lothor... that night sansa scarcely slept at all, but tossed and turned just as she had aboard the merling king. she dreamt of joffrey dying, but as he clawed at his throat and the blood ran down across his fingers she saw with horror that it was her brother robb. and she dreamed of her wedding night too, of tyrion's eyes devouring her as she undressed. only then he was bigger than tyrion had any right to be, and when he climbed into the bed his face was scarred only on one side. i'll have a song from you, he rasped, and sansa woke and found the old blind dog beside her once again. i wish that you were lady, she said. come the morning, grisel climbed up to the bedchamber to serve the lord and lady a tray of morning bread, with butter, honey, fruit, and cream. she returned to say that alayne was wanted. sansa was still drowsy from sleep. it took her a moment to remember that she was alayne. lady lysa was still abed, but lord petyr was up and dressed. your aunt wishes to speak with you, he told sansa, as he pulled on a boot. i've told her who you are. gods be good. i... i thank you, my lord. petyr yanked on the other boot. i've had about as much home as i can stomach. we'll leave for the eyrie this afternoon. he kissed his lady wife and licked a smear of honey off her lips, then headed down the steps. sansa stood by the foot of the bed while her aunt ate a pear and studied her. i see it now, the lady lysa said, as she set the core aside. you look so much like catelyn. it's kind of you to say so. it was not meant as flattery if truth be told, you look too much like catelyn. something must be done. we shall darken your hair before we bring you back to the eyrie, i think. darken my hair? if it please you, aunt lysa. you must not call me that. no word of your presence here must be allowed to reach king's landing. i do not mean to have my son endangered. she nibbled the comer of a honeycomb. i have kept the vale out of this war. our harvest has been plentiful, the mountains protect us, and the eyrie is impregnable. even so, it would not do to draw lord tywin's wroth down upon us. lysa set the comb down and licked honey from her fingers. you were wed to tyrion lannister, petyr says. that vile dwarf. they made me marry him. i never wanted it. no more than i did, her aunt said. jon arryn was no dwarf, but he was old. you may not think so to see me now, but on the day we wed i was so lovely i put your mother to shame. but all jon desired was my father's swords, to aid his darling boys. i should have refused him, but he was such an old man, how long could he live? half his teeth were gone, and his breath smelled like bad cheese. i cannot abide a man with foul breath. petyr' s breath is always fresh... he was the first man i ever kissed, you know. my father said he was too lowborn, but i knew how high he'd rise. jon gave him the customs for gulltown to please me, but when he increased the incomes tenfold my lord husband saw how clever he was and gave him other appointments, even brought him to king's landing to be master of coin. that was hard, to see him every day and still be wed to that old cold man. jon did his duty in the bedchamber, but he could no more give me pleasure than he could give me children. his seed was old and weak. all my babies died but robert, three girls and two boys. all my sweet little babies dead, and that old man just went on and on with his stinking breath. so you see, i have suffered too. lady lysa sniffed. you do know that your poor mother is dead? tyrion told me, said sansa. he said the freys murdered her at the twins, with robb. tears welled suddenly in lady lysa's eyes. we are women alone now, you and i. are you afraid, child? be brave. i would never turn away cat's daughter. we are bound by blood. she beckoned sansa closer. you may come kiss my cheek, alayne. dutifully she approached and knelt beside the bed. her aunt was drenched in sweet scent, though under that was a sour milky smell. her cheek tasted of paint and powder. as sansa stepped back, lady lysa caught her wrist. now tell me, she said sharply. are you with child? the truth now, i will know if you lie. no, she said, startled by the question. you are a woman flowered, are you not? yes. sansa knew the truth of her flowering could not be long hidden in the eyrie. tyrion didn't... he never... she could feel the blush creeping up her cheeks. i am still a maid. was the dwarf incapable? no. he was only... he was... kind? she could not say that, not here, not to this aunt who hated him so. he... he had whores, my lady. he told me so. whores. lysa released her wrist. of course he did. what woman would bed such a creature, but for gold? i should have killed the imp when he was in my power, but he tricked me. he is full of low cunning, that one. his sellsword slew my good ser vardis egen. catelyn should not have brought him here, i told her that. she made off with our uncle too. that was wrong of her. the blackfish was my knight of the gate, and since he left us the mountain clans are growing very bold. petyr will soon set all that to rights, though. i shall make him lord protector of the vale. her aunt smiled for the first time, almost warmly. he may not look as tall or strong as some, but he is worth more than all of them. trust in him and do as he says. i shall, aunt... my lady. lady lysa seemed pleased by that. i knew that boy joffrey. he used to call my robert cruel names, and once he slapped him with a wooden sword. a man will tell you poison is dishonorable, but a woman's honor is different. the mother shaped us to protect our children, and our only dishonor is in failure. you'll know that, when you have a child. a child? said sansa, uncertainly. lysa waved a hand negligently. not for many years. you are too young to be a mother. one day you shall want children, though just as you will want to marry. i... i am married, my lady. yes, but soon a widow. be glad the imp preferred his whores. it would not be fitting for my son to take that dwarfs leavings, but as he never touched you... how would you like to marry your cousin, the lord robert? the thought made sansa weary. all she knew of robert arryn was that he was a little boy, and sickly. it is not me she wants her son to marry, it is my claim. no one will ever marry me for love. but lying came easy to her now. i... can scarcely wait to meet him, my lady. but he is still a child, is he not? he is eight. and not robust. but such a good boy, so bright and clever. he will be a great man, alayne. the seed is strong, my lord husband said before he died. his last words. the gods sometimes let us glimpse the future as we lay dying. i see no reason why you should not be wed as soon as we know that your lannister husband is dead. a secret wedding, to be sure. the lord of the eyrie could scarcely be thought to have married a bastard, that would not be fitting. the ravens should bring us the word from king's landing once the imp's head rolls. you and robert can be wed the next day, won't that be joyous? it will be good for him to have a little companion. he played with vardis egen's boy when we first returned to the eyrie, and my steward's sons as well, but they were much too rough and i had no choice but to send them away. do you read well, alayne? septa mordane was good enough to say so. 'robert has weak eyes, but he loves to be read to, lady lysa confided. he likes stories about animals the best. do you know the little song about the chicken who dressed as a fox? i sing him that all the time, he never grows tired of it. and he likes to play hopfrog and spin-the-sword and come-into-my-castle, but you must always let him win. that's only proper, don't you think? he is the lord of the eyrie, after all, you must never forget that. you are well born, and the starks of winterfell were always proud, but winterfell has fallen and you are really just a beggar now, so put that pride aside. gratitude will better become you, in your present circumstances. yes, and obedience. my son will have a grateful and obedient wife. she awoke all at once, every nerve atingle. for a moment she did not remember where she was. she had dreamt that she was little, still sharing a bedchamber with her sister arya. but it was her maid she heard tossing in sleep, not her sister, and this was not winterfell, but the eyrie. and i am alayne stone, a bastard girl. the room was cold and black, though she was warm beneath the blankets. dawn had not yet come. sometimes she dreamed of ser ilyn payne and woke with her heart thumping, but this dream had not been like that. home. it was a dream of home. the eyrie was no home. it was no bigger than maegor's holdfast, and outside its sheer white walls was only the mountain and the long treacherous descent past sky and snow and stone to the gates of the moon on the valley floor. there was no place to go and little to do. the older servants said these halls rang with laughter when her father and robert baratheon had been jon arryn's wards, but those days were many years gone. her aunt kept a small household, and seldom permitted any guests to ascend past the gates of the moon. aside from her aged maid, sansa's only companion was the lord robert, eight going on three. and marillion. there is always marillion. when he played for them at supper, the young singer often seemed to be singing directly at her. her aunt was far from pleased. lady lysa doted on marillion, and had banished two serving girls and even a page for telling lies about him. lysa was as lonely as she was. her new husband seemed to spend more time at the foot of the mountain than he did atop it. he was gone now, had been gone the past four days, meeting with the corbrays. from bits and pieces of overheard conversations sansa knew that jon arryn's bannermen resented lysa's marriage and begrudged petyr his authority as lord protector of the vale. the senior branch of house royce was close to open revolt over her aunt's failure to aid robb in his war, and the waynwoods, redforts, belmores, and templetons were giving them every support. the mountain clans were being troublesome as well, and old lord hunter had died so suddenly that his two younger sons were accusing their elder brother of having murdered him. the vale of arryn might have been spared the worst of the war, but it was hardly the idyllic place that lady lysa had made it out to be. i am not going back to sleep, sansa realized. my head is all a tumult. she pushed her pillow away reluctantly, threw back the blankets, went to her window, and opened the shutters. snow was falling on the eyrie. outside the flakes drifted down as soft and silent as memory. was this what woke me? already the snowfall lay thick upon the garden below, blanketing the grass, dusting the shrubs and statues with white and weighing down the branches of the trees. the sight took sansa back to cold nights long ago, in the long summer of her childhood. she had last seen snow the day she'd left winterfell. that was a lighter fall than this, she remembered. robb had melting flakes in his hair when he hugged me, and the snowball arya tried to make kept coming apart in her hands. it hurt to remember how happy she had been that morning. hullen had helped her mount, and she'd ridden out with the snowflakes swirling around her, off to see the great wide world. i thought my song was beginning that day, but it was almost done. sansa left the shutters open as she dressed. it would be cold, she knew, though the eyrie's towers encircled the garden and protected it from the worst of the mountain winds. she donned silken smallclothes and a linen shift, and over that a warm dress of blue lambswool. two pairs of hose for her legs, boots that laced up to her knees, heavy leather gloves, and finally a hooded cloak of soft white fox fur. her maid rolled herself more tightly in her blanket as the snow began to drift in the window. sansa eased open the door, and made her way down the winding stair. when she opened the door to the garden, it was so lovely that she held her breath, unwilling to disturb such perfect beauty. the snow drifted down and down, all in ghostly silence, and lay thick and unbroken on the ground. all color had fled the world outside. it was a place of whites and blacks and greys. white towers and white snow and white statues, black shadows and black trees, the dark grey sky above. a pure world, sansa thought. i do not belong here. yet she stepped out all the same. her boots tore ankle-deep holes into the smooth white surface of the snow, yet made no sound. sansa drifted past frosted shrubs and thin dark trees, and wondered if she were still dreaming. drifting snowflakes brushed her face as light as lover's kisses, and melted on her cheeks. at the center of the garden, beside the statue of the weeping woman that lay broken and half-buried on the ground, she turned her face up to the sky and closed her eyes. she could feel the snow on her lashes, taste it on her lips. it was the taste of winterfell. the taste of innocence. the taste of dreams. when sansa opened her eyes again, she was on her knees. she did not remember falling, it seemed to her that the sky was a lighter shade of grey. dawn, she thought. another day. another new day. it was the old days she hungered for. prayed for. but who could she pray to? the garden had been meant for a godswood once, she knew, but the soil was too thin and stony for a weirwood to take root. a godswood without gods, as empty as me. she scooped up a handful of snow and squeezed it between her fingers. heavy and wet, the snow packed easily. sansa began to make snowballs, shaping and smoothing them until they were round and white and perfect. she remembered a summer's snow in winterfell when arya and bran had ambushed her as she emerged from the keep one morning. they'd each had a dozen snowballs to hand, and she'd had none. bran had been perched on the roof of the covered bridge, out of reach, but sansa had chased arya through the stables and around the kitchen until both of them were breathless. she might even have caught her, but she'd slipped on some ice. her sister came back to see if she was hurt. when she said she wasn't, arya hit her in the face with another snowball, but sansa grabbed her leg and pulled her down and was rubbing snow in her hair when jory came along and pulled them apart, laughing. what do i want with snowballs? she looked at her sad little arsenal. there's no one to throw them at. she let the one she was making drop from her hand. i could build a snow knight instead, she thought. or even... she pushed two of her snowballs together, added a third, packed more snow in around them, and patted the whole thing into the shape of a cylinder. when it was done, she stood it on end and used the tip of her little finger to poke holes in it for windows. the crenellations around the top took a little more care, but when they were done she had a tower. i need some walls now, sansa thought, and then a keep. she set to work. the snow fell and the castle rose. two walls ankle-high, the inner taller than the outer. towers and turrets, keeps and stairs, a round kitchen, a square armory, the stables along the inside of the west wall. it was only a castle when she began, but before very long sansa knew it was winterfell. she found twigs and fallen branches beneath the snow and broke off the ends to make the trees for the godswood. for the gravestones in the lichyard she used bits of bark. soon her gloves and her boots were crusty white, her hands were tingling, and her feet were soaked and cold, but she did not care. the castle was all that mattered. some things were hard to remember, but most came back to her easily, as if she had been there only yesterday. the library tower, with the steep stonework stair twisting about its exterior. the gatehouse, two huge bulwarks, the arched gate between them, crenellations all along the top... and all the while the snow kept falling, piling up in drifts around her buildings as fast as she raised them. she was patting down the pitched roof of the great hall when she heard a voice, and looked up to see her maid calling from her window. was my lady well? did she wish to break her fast? sansa shook her head, and went back to shaping snow, adding a chimney to one end of the great hall, where the hearth would stand inside. dawn stole into her garden like a thief. the grey of the sky grew lighter still, and the trees and shrubs turned a dark green beneath their stoles of snow. a few servants came out and watched her for a time, but she paid them no mind and they soon went back inside where it was warmer. sansa saw lady lysa gazing down from her balcony, wrapped up in a blue velvet robe trimmed with fox fur, but when she looked again her aunt was gone. maester colemon popped out of the rookery and peered down for a while, skinny and shivering but curious. her bridges kept falling down. there was a covered bridge between the armory and the main keep, and another that went from the fourth floor of the bell tower to the second floor of the rookery, but no matter how carefully she shaped them, they would not hold together. the third time one collapsed on her, she cursed aloud and sat back in helpless frustration. pack the snow around a stick, sansa. she did not know how long he had been watching her, or when he had returned from the vale. a stick? she asked. that will give it strength enough to stand, i'd think, petyr said. may i come into your castle, my lady? sansa was wary. don't break it. be... ... gentle? he smiled. winterfell has withstood fiercer enemies than me. it is winterfell, is it not? yes, sansa admitted. he walked along outside the walls. i used to dream of it, in those years after cat went north with eddard stark. in my dreams it was ever a dark place, and cold. no. it was always warm, even when it snowed. water from the hot springs is piped through the walls to warm them, and inside the glass gardens it was always like the hottest day of summer. she stood, towering over the great white castle. i can't think how to do the glass roof over the gardens. littlefinger stroked his chin, where his beard had been before lysa had asked him to shave it off. the glass was locked in frames, no? twigs are your answer. peel them and cross them and use bark to tie them together into frames. i'll show you. he moved through the garden, gathering up twigs and sticks and shaking the snow from them. when he had enough, he stepped over both walls with a single long stride and squatted on his heels in the middle of the yard. sansa came closer to watch what he was doing. his hands were deft and sure, and before long he had a crisscrossing latticework of twigs, very like the one that roofed the glass gardens of winterfell. we will need to imagine the glass, to be sure, he said when he gave it to her. this is just right, she said. he touched her face. and so is that. sansa did not understand. and so is what? your smile, my lady. shall i make another for you? if you would. nothing could please me more. she raised the walls of the glass gardens while littlefinger roofed them over, and when they were done with that he helped her extend the walls and build the guardshall. when she used sticks for the covered bridges, they stood, just as he had said they would. the first keep was simple enough, an old round drum tower, but sansa was stymied again when it came to putting the gargoyles around the top. again he had the answer. it's been snowing on your castle, my lady, he pointed out. what do the gargoyles look like when they're covered with snow? sansa closed her eyes to see them in memory. they're just white lumps. well, then. gargoyles are hard, but white lumps should be easy. and they were. the broken tower was easier still. they made a tall tower together, kneeling side by side to roll it smooth, and when they'd raised it sansa stuck her fingers through the top, grabbed a handful of snow, and flung it full in his face. petyr yelped, as the snow slid down under his collar. that was unchivalrously done, my lady. as was bringing me here, when you swore to take me home. she wondered where this courage had come from, to speak to him so frankly. from winterfell, she thought. i am stronger within the walls of winterfell. his face grew serious. yes, i played you false in that... and in one other thing as well. sansa' s stomach was aflutter. what other thing? i told you that nothing could please me more than to help you with your castle. i fear that was a lie as well. something else would please me more. he stepped closer. this. sansa tried to step back, but he pulled her into his arms and suddenly he was kissing her. feebly, she tried to squirm, but only succeeded in pressing herself more tightly against him. his mouth was on hers, swallowing her words. he tasted of mint. for half a heartbeat she yielded to his kiss... before she turned her face away and wrenched free. what are you doing? petyr straightened his cloak. kissing a snow maid. you're supposed to kiss her. sansa glanced up at lysa's balcony, but it was empty now. your lady wife. i do. lysa has no cause for complaint. he smiled. i wish you could see yourself, my lady. you are so beautiful. you're crusted over with snow like some little bear cub, but your face is flushed and you can scarcely breathe. how long have you been out here? you must be very cold. let me warm you, sansa. take off those gloves, give me your hands. i won't. he sounded almost like marillion, the night he'd gotten so drunk at the wedding. only this time lothor brune would not appear to save her; ser lothor was petyr's man. you shouldn't kiss me. i might have been your own daughter... might have been, he admitted, with a rueful smile. but you're not, are you? you are eddard stark's daughter, and cat's. but i think you might be even more beautiful than your mother was, when she was your age. petyr, please. her voice sounded so weak. please. a castle! the voice was loud, shrill, and childish. littleflnger turned away from her. lord robert. he sketched a bow. should you be out in the snow without your gloves? did you make the snow castle, lord littleflnger? alayne did most of it, my lord. sansa said, it's meant to be winterfell. winterfell? robert was small for eight, a stick of a boy with splotchy skin and eyes that were always runny. under one arm he clutched the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere. winterfell is the seat of house stark, sansa told her husband-to-be. the great castle of the north. it's not so great. the boy knelt before the gatehouse. look, here comes a giant to knock it down. he stood his doll in the snow and moved it jerkily. tromp tromp i'm a giant, i'm a giant, he chanted. ho ho ho, open yourgates or i'll mash them and smash them. swinging the doll by the legs, he knocked the top off one gatehouse tower and then the other. it was more than sansa could stand. robert, stop that. instead he swung the doll again, and a foot of wall exploded. she grabbed for his hand but she caught the doll instead. there was a loud ripping sound as the thin cloth tore. suddenly she had the doll's head, robert had the legs and body, and the rag-and-sawdust stuffing was spilling in the snow. lord robert's mouth trembled. you killed him, he wailed. then he began to shake. it started with no more than a little shivering, but within a few short heartbeats he had collapsed across the castle, his limbs flailing about violently. white towers and snowy bridges shattered and fell on all sides. sansa stood horrified, but petyr baelish seized her cousin's wrists and shouted for the maester. guards and serving girls arrived within instants to help restrain the boy, maester colemon a short time later. robert arryn's shaking sickness was nothing new to the people of the eyrie, and lady lysa had trained them all to come rushing at the boy's first cry. the maester held the little lord's head and gave him half a cup of dreamwine, murmuring soothing words. slowly the violence of the fit seemed to ebb away, till nothing remained but a small shaking of the hands. help him to my chambers, colemon told the guards. a leeching will help calm him. it was my fault. sansa showed them the doll's head. i ripped his doll in two. i never meant to, but... his lordship was destroying the castle, said petyr. a giant, the boy whispered, weeping. it wasn't me, it was a giant hurt the castle. she killed him! i hate her! she's a bastard and i hate her! i don't want to be leeched! my lord, your blood needs thinning, said maester colemon. it is the bad blood that makes you angry, and the rage that brings on the shaking. come now. they led the boy away. my lord husband, sansa thought, as she contemplated the ruins of winterfell. the snow had stopped, and it was colder than before. she wondered if lord robert would shake all through their wedding. at least joffrey was sound of body. a mad rage seized hold of her. she picked up a broken branch and smashed the torn doll's head down on top of it, then pushed it down atop the shattered gatehouse of her snow castle. the servants looked aghast, but when littlefinger saw what she'd done he laughed. if the tales be true, that's not the first giant to end up with his head on winterfell's walls. those are only stories, she said, and left him there. back in her bedchamber, sansa took off her cloak and her wet boots and sat beside the fire. she had no doubt that she would be made to answer for lord robert's fit. perhaps lady lysa will send me away. her aunt was quick to banish anyone who displeased her, and nothing displeased her quite so much as people she suspected of mistreating her son. sansa would have welcomed banishment. the gates of the moon was much larger than the eyrie, and livelier as well. lord nestor royce seemed gruff and stern, but his daughter myranda kept his castle for him, and everyone said how frolicsome she was. even sansa's supposed bastardy might not count too much against her below. one of king robert's baseborn daughters was in service to lord nestor, and she and the lady myranda were said to be fast friends, as close as sisters. i will tell my aunt that i don't want to marry robert. not even the high septon himself could declare a woman married if she refused to say the vows. she wasn't a beggar, no matter what her aunt said. she was thirteen, a woman flowered and wed, the heir to winterfell. sansa felt sorry for her little cousin sometimes, but she could not imagine ever wanting to be his wife. i would sooner be married to tyrion again. if lady lysa knew that, surely she'd send her away... away from robert's pouts and shakes and runny eyes, away from marillion's lingering looks, away from petyr's kisses. i will tell her. i will! it was late that afternoon when lady lysa summoned her. sansa had been marshaling her courage all day, but no sooner did marillion appear at her door than all her doubts returned. lady lysa requires your presence in the high hall. the singer's eyes undressed her as he spoke, but she was used to that. marillion was comely, there was no denying it; boyish and slender, with smooth skin, sandy hair, a charming smile. but he had made himself well hated in the vale, by everyone but her aunt and little lord robert. to hear the servants talk, sansa was not the first maid to suffer his advances, and the others had not had lothor brune to defend them. but lady lysa would hear no complaints against him. since coming to the eyrie, the singer had become her favorite. he sang lord robert to sleep every night, and tweaked the noses of lady lysa's suitors with verses that made mock of their foibles. her aunt had showered him with gold and gifts; costly clothes, a gold arm ring, a belt studded with moonstones, a fine horse. she had even given him her late husband's favorite falcon. it all served to make marillion unfailingly courteous in lady lysa's presence, and unfailingly arrogant outside it. thank you, sansa told him stiffly. i know the way. he would not leave. my lady said to bring you. bring me? she did not like the sound of that. are you a guardsman now? little finger had dismissed the eyrie's captain of guards and put ser lothor brune in his place. do you require guarding? marillion said lightly. i am composing a new song, you should know. a song so sweet and sad it will melt even your frozen heart. 'the roadside rose' i mean to call it. about a baseborn girl so beautiful she bewitched every man who laid eyes upon her. i am a stark of winterfell, she longed to tell him. instead she nodded, and let him escort her down the tower steps and along a bridge. the high hall had been closed as long as she'd been at the eyrie. sansa wondered why her aunt had opened it. normally she preferred the comfort of her solar, or the cozy warmth of lord arryn's audience chamber with its view of the waterfall. two guards in sky-blue cloaks flanked the carved wooden doors of the high hall, spears in hand. no one is to enter so long as alayne is with lady lysa, marillion told them. aye. the men let them pass, then crossed their spears. marillion swung the doors shut and barred them with a third spear, longer and thicker than those the guards had borne. sansa felt a prickle of unease. why did you do that? my lady awaits you. she looked about uncertainly. lady lysa sat on the dais in a highbacked chair of carved weirwood, alone. to her right was a second chair, taller than her own, with a stack of blue cushions piled on the seat, but lord robert was not in it. sansa hoped he'd recovered. marillion was not like to tell her, though. sansa walked down the blue silk carpet between rows of fluted pillars slim as lances. the floors and walls of the high hall were made of milk-white marble veined with blue. shafts of pale daylight slanted down through narrow arched windows along the eastern wall. between the windows were torches, mounted in high iron sconces, but none of them was lit. her footsteps fell softly on the carpet. outside the wind blew cold and lonely. amidst so much white marble even the sunlight looked chilly, somehow... though not half so chilly as her aunt. lady lysa had dressed in a gown of cream-colored velvet and a necklace of sapphires and moonstones. her auburn hair had been done up in a thick braid, and fell across one shoulder. she sat in the high seat watching her niece approach, her face red and puffy beneath the paint and powder. on the wall behind her hung a huge banner, the moon-and- falcon of house arryn in cream and blue. sansa stopped before the dais, and curtsied. my lady. you sent for me. she could still hear the sound of the wind, and the soft chords marillion was playing at the foot of the hall. i saw what you did, the lady lysa said. sansa smoothed down the folds of her skirt. i trust lord robert is better? i never meant to rip his doll. he was smashing my snow castle, i only... will you play the coy deceiver with me? her aunt said. i was not speaking of robert's doll. i saw you kissing him. the high hall seemed to grow a little colder. the walls and floor and columns might have turned to ice. he kissed me. lysa's nostrils flared. and why would he do that? he has a wife who loves him. a woman grown, not a little girl. he has no need for the likes of you. confess, child. you threw yourself at him. that was the way of it. sansa took a step backward. that's not true. where are you going? are you afraid? such wanton behavior must be punished, but i will not be hard on you. we keep a whipping boy for robert, as is the custom in the free cities. his health is too delicate for him to bear the rod himself. i shall find some common girl to take your whipping, but first you must own up to what you've done. i cannot abide a liar, alayne. i was building a snow castle, sansa said. lord petyr was helping me, and then he kissed me. that's what you saw. have you no honor? her aunt said sharply. or do you take me for a fool? you do, don't you? you take me for a fool. yes, i see that now. i am not a fool. you think you can have any man you want because you're young and beautiful. don't think i haven't seen the looks you give marillion. i know everything that happens in the eyrie, little lady. and i have known your like before, too. but you are mistaken if you think big eyes and strumpet's smiles will win you petyr. he is mine. she rose to her feet. they all tried to take him from me. my lord father, my husband, your mother... catelyn most of all. she liked to kiss my petyr too, oh yes she did. sansa retreated another step. my mother? yes, your mother, your precious mother, my own sweet sister catelyn. don't you think to play the innocent with me, you vile little liar. all those years in riverrun, she played with petyr as if he were her little toy. she teased him with smiles and soft words and wanton looks, and made his nights a torment. no. my mother is dead, she wanted to shriek. she was your own sister, and she's dead. she didn't. she wouldn't. how would you know? were you there? lysa descended from the high seat, her skirts swirling. did you come with lord bracken and lord blackwood, the time they visited to lay their feud before my father? lord bracken's singer played for us, and catelyn danced six dances with petyr that night, six, i counted. when the lords began to argue my father took them up to his audience chamber, so there was no one to stop us drinking. edmure got drunk, young as he was... and petyr tried to kiss your mother, only she pushed him away. she laughed at him. he looked so wounded i thought my heart would burst, and afterward he drank until he passed out at the table. uncle brynden carried him up to bed before my father could find him like that. but you remember none of it, do you? she looked down angrily. do you? is she drunk, or mad? i was not born, my lady. you were not born. but i was, so do not presume to tell what is true. i know what is true. you kissed him! he kissed me, sansa insisted again. i never wanted.- be quiet, i haven't given you leave to speak. you enticed him, just as your mother did that night in riverrun, with her smiles and her dancing. you think i could forget? that was the night i stole up to his bed to give him comfort. i bled, but it was the sweetest hurt. he told me he loved me then, but he called me cat, just before he fell back to sleep. even so, i stayed with him until the sky began to lighten. your mother did not deserve him. she would not even give him her favor to wear when he fought brandon stark. i would have given him my favor. i gave him everything. he is mine now. not catelyn's and not yours. all of sansa's resolve had withered in the face of her aunt's onslaught. lysa arryn was frightening her as much as queen cersei ever had. he's yours, my lady, she said, trying to sound meek and contrite. may i have your leave to go? you may not. her aunt's breath smelled of wine. if you were anyone else, i would banish you. send you down to lord nestor at the gates of the moon, or back to the fingers. how would you like to spend your life on that bleak shore, surrounded by slatterns and sheep pellets? that was what my father meant for petyr. everyone thought it was because of that stupid duel with brandon stark, but that wasn't so. father said i ought to thank the gods that so great a lord as jon arryn was willing to take me soiled, but i knew it was only for the swords. i had to marry jon, or my father would have turned me out as he did his brother, but it was petyr i was meant for. i am telling you all this so you will understand how much we love each other, how long we have suffered and dreamed of one another. we made a baby together, a precious little baby. lysa put her hands flat against her belly, as if the child was still there. when they stole him from me, i made a promise to myself that i would never let it happen again. jon wished to send my sweet robert to dragonstone, and that sot of a king would have given him to cersei lannister, but i never let them... no more than i'll let you steal my petyr little finger. do you hear me, alayne or sansa or whatever you call yourself? do you hear what i am telling you? yes. i swear, i won't ever kiss him again, or... or entice him. sansa thought that was what her aunt wanted to hear. so you admit it now? it was you, just as i thought. you are as wanton as your mother. lysa grabbed her by the wrist. come with me now. there is something i want to show you. you're hurting me. sansa squirmed. please, aunt lysa, i haven't done anything. i swear it. her aunt ignored her protests. marillion! she shouted. i need you, marillion! i need you! the singer had remained discreetly in the rear of the hall, but at lady arryn's shout he came at once. my lady? play us a song. play 'the false and the fair. ' marillions fingers brushed the strings. the lord he came a-riding upon a rainy day, hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny- hey... lady lysa pulled at sansa' s arm. it was either walk or be dragged, so she chose to walk, halfway down the hall and between a pair of pillars, to a white weirwood door set in the marble wall. the door was firmly closed, with three heavy bronze bars to hold it in place, but sansa could hear the wind outside worrying at its edges. when she saw the crescent moon carved in the wood, she planted her feet. the moon door. she tried to yank free. why are you showing me the moon door? you squeak like a mouse now, but you were bold enough in the garden, weren't you? you were bold enough in the snow. the lady sat a-sewing upon a rainy day, marillion sang. heynonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny- hey. open the door, lysa commanded. open it, i say. you will do it, or i'll send for my guards. she shoved sansa forward. your mother was brave, at least. lift off the bars. if i do as she says, she will let me go. sansa grabbed one of the bronze bars, yanked it loose, and tossed it down. the second bar clattered to the marble, then the third. she had barely touched the latch when the heavy wooden door flew inward and slammed back against the wall with a bang. snow had piled up around the frame, and it all came blowing in at them, borne on a blast of cold air that left sansa shivering. she tried to step backward, but her aunt was behind her. lysa seized her by the wrist and put her other hand between her shoulder blades, propelling her forcefully toward the open door. beyond was white sky, falling snow, and nothing else. look down, said lady lysa. look down. she tried to wrench free, but her aunt's fingers were digging into her arm like claws. lysa gave her another shove, and sansa shrieked. her left foot broke through a crust of snow and knocked it loose. there was nothing in front of her but empty air, and a waycastle six hundred feet below clinging to the side of the mountain. don't! sansa screamed. you're scaring me! behind her, marillion was still playing his woodharp and singing, hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny- hey. do you still want my leave to go? do you? no. sansa planted her feet and tried to squirm backward, but her aunt did not budge. not this way. please... she put a hand up, her fingers scrabbling at the doorframe, but she could not get a grip, and her feet were sliding on the wet marble floor. lady lysa pressed her forward inexorably. her aunt outweighed her by three stone. the lady lay a-kissing, upon a mound of hay, marillion was singing. sansa twisted sideways, hysterical with fear, and one foot slipped out over the void. she screamed. hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny-hey. the wind flapped her skirts up and bit at her bare legs with cold teeth. she could feel snowflakes melting on her cheeks. sansa flailed, found lysa's thick auburn braid, and clutched it tight. my hair! her aunt shrieked. let go of my hair! she was shaking, sobbing. they teetered on the edge. far off, she heard the guards pounding on the door with their spears, demanding to be let in. marillion broke off his song. lysa! what's the meaning of this? the shout cut through the sobs and heavy breathing. footsteps echoed down the high hall. get back from there! lysa, what are you doing? the guards were still beating at the door; little finger had come in the back way, through the lords' entrance behind the dais. as lysa turned, her grip loosened enough for sansa to rip free. she stumbled to her knees, where petyr baelish saw her. he stopped suddenly. alayne. what is the trouble here? her. lady lysa grabbed a handful of sansa's hair. she's the trouble. she kissed you. tell her, sansa begged. tell her we were just building a castle... be quiet! her aunt screamed. i never gave you leave to speak. no one cares about your castle. she's a child, lysa. cat's daughter. what did you think you were doing? i was going to marry her to robert! she has no gratitude. no... no decency. you are not hers to kiss. not hers! i was teaching her a lesson, that was all. i see. he stroked his chin. i think she understands now. isn't that so, alayne? yes, sobbed sansa. i understand. i don't want her here. her aunt's eyes were shiny with tears. why did you bring her to the vale, petyr? this isn't her place. she doesn't belong here. we'll send her away, then. back to king's landing, if you like. he took a step toward them. let her up, now. let her away from the door. no! lysa gave sansa's head another wrench. snow eddied around them, making their skirts snap noisily. you can't want her. you can't. she's a stupid empty-headed little girl. she doesn't love you the way i have. i've always loved you. i've proved it, haven't i? tears ran down her aunt's puffy red face. i gave you my maiden's gift. i would have given you a son too, but they murdered him with moon tea, with tansy and mint and wormwood, a spoon of honey and a drop of permyroyal. it wasn't me, i never knew, i only drank what father gave me... that's past and done, lysa. lord hoster's dead, and his old maester as well. littlefinger moved closer. have you been at the wine again? you ought not to talk so much. we don't want alayne to know more than she should, do we? or marillion? lady lysa ignored that. cat never gave you anything. it was me who got you your first post, who made jon bring you to court so we could be close to one another. you promised me you would never forget that. nor have i. we're together, just as you always wanted, just as we always planned, just let go of sansa's hair... i won't! i saw you kissing in the snow. she's just like her mother. catelyn kissed you in the godswood, but she never meant it, she never wanted you. why did you love her best? it was me, it was always meeee! i know, love. he took another step. and i am here. all you need to do is take my hand, come on. he held it out to her. there's no cause for all these tears. tears, tears, tears, she sobbed hysterically. no need for tears... but that's not what you said in king's landing. you told me to put the tears in jon's wine, and i did. for robert, and for us! and i wrote catelyn and told her the lannisters had killed my lord husband, just as you said. that was so clever... you were always clever, i told father that, i said petyr's so clever, he'll rise high, he will, he will, and he's sweet and gentle and i have his little baby in my belly... why did you kiss her? why? we're together now, we're together after so long, so very long, why would you want to kiss herrrrrr? lysa, petyr sighed, after all the storms we've suffered, you should trust me better. i swear, i shall never leave your side again, for as long as we both shall live. truly? she asked, weeping. oh, truly? truly. now unhand the girl and come give me a kiss. lysa threw herself into little finger's arms, sobbing. as they hugged, sansa crawled from the moon door on hands and knees and wrapped her arms around the nearest pillar. she could feel her heart pounding. there was snow in her hair and her right shoe was missing. it must have fallen. she shuddered, and hugged the pillar tighter. littlefinger let lysa sob against his chest for a moment, then put his hands on her arms and kissed her lightly. my sweet silly jealous wife, he said, chuckling. i've only loved one woman, i promise you. lysa arryn smiled tremulously. only one? oh, petyr, do you swear it? only one? only cat. he gave her a short, sharp shove. lysa stumbled backward, her feet slipping on the wet marble. and then she was gone. she never screamed. for the longest time there was no sound but the wind. marillion gasped, you... you... the guards were shouting outside the door, pounding with the butts of their heavy spears. lord petyr pulled sansa to her feet. you're not hurt? when she shook her head, he said, run let my guards in, then. quick now, there's no time to lose. this singer's killed my lady wife. ejrilogue the road up to oldstones went twice around the hill before reaching the summit. overgrown and stony, it would have been slow going even in the best of times, and last night's snow had left it muddy as well. snow in autumn in the riverlands, it's unnatural, merrett thought gloomily. it had not been much of a snow, true; just enough to blanket the ground for a night. most of it had started melting away as soon as the sun came up. still, merrett took it for a bad omen. between rains, floods, fire, and war, they had lost two harvests and a good part of a third. an early winter would mean famine all across the riverlands. a great many people would go hungry, and some of them would starve. merrett only hoped he wouldn't be one of them. i may, though. with my luck, i just may. i never did have any luck. beneath the castle ruins, the lower slopes of the hill were so thickly forested that half a hundred outlaws could well have been lurking there. they could be watching me even now. merrett glanced about, and saw nothing but gorse, bracken, thistle, sedge, and blackberry bushes between the pines and grey-green sentinels. elsewhere skeletal elm and ash and scrub oaks choked the ground like weeds. he saw no outlaws, but that meant little. outlaws were better at hiding than honest men. merrett hated the woods, if truth be told, and he hated outlaws even more. outlaws stole my life, he had been known to complain when in his cups. he was too often in his cups, his father said, often and loudly. too true, he thought ruefully. you needed some sort of distinction in the twins, else they were liable to forget you were alive, but a reputation as the biggest drinker in the castle had done little to enhance his prospects, he'd found. i once hoped to be the greatest knight who ever couched a lance. the gods took that away from me. why shouldn't i have a cup of wine from time to time? it helps my headaches. besides, my wife is a shrew, my father despises me, my children are worthless. what do i have to stay sober for? he was sober now, though. well, he'd had two horns of ale when he broke his fast, and a small cup of red when he set out, but that was just to keep his head from pounding. merrett could feel the headache building behind his eyes, and he knew that if he gave it half a chance he would soon feel as if he had a thunderstorm raging between his ears. sometimes his headaches got so bad that it even hurt too much to weep. then all he could do was rest on his bed in a dark room with a damp cloth over his eyes, and curse his luck and the nameless outlaw who had done this to him. just thinking about it made him anxious. he could no wise afford a headache now. if i bring petyr back home safely, all my luck will change. he had the gold, all he needed to do was climb to the top of oldstones, meet the bloody outlaws in the ruined castle, and make the exchange. a simple ransom. even he could not muck it up... unless he got a headache, one so bad that it left him unable to ride. he was supposed to be at the ruins by sunset, not weeping in a huddle at the side of the road. merrett rubbed two fingers against his temple. once more around the hill, and there i am. when the message had come in and he had stepped forward to offer to carry the ransom, his father had squinted down and said, you, merrett? and started laughing through his nose, that hideous heh heh heh laugh of his. merrett practically had to beg before they'd give him the bloody bag of gold. something moved in the underbrush along the side of the road. merrett reined up hard and reached for his sword, but it was only a squirrel. stupid, he told himself, shoving the sword back in its scabbard without ever having gotten it out. outlaws don't have tails. bloody hell, merrett, get hold of yourself. his heart was thumping in his chest as if he were some green boy on his first campaign. as if this were the kingswood and it was the old brotherhood i was going to face, not the lightning lord's sorry lot of brigands. for a moment he was tempted to trot right back down the hill and find the nearest alehouse. that bag of gold would buy a lot of ale, enough for him to forget all about petyr pimple. let them hang him, he brought this on himself. it's no more than he deserves, wandering off with some bloody camp follower like a stag in rut. his head had begun to pound; soft now, but he knew it would get worse. merrett rubbed the bridge of his nose. he really had no right to think so ill of petyr. i did the same myself when i was his age. in his case all it got him was a pox, but still, he shouldn't condemn. whores did have charms, especially if you had a face like petyr's. the poor lad had a wife, to be sure, but she was half the problem. not only was she twice his age, but she was bedding his brother walder too, if the talk was true. there was always lots of talk around the twins, and only a little was ever true, but in this case merrett believed it. black walder was a man who took what he wanted, even his brother's wife. he'd had edwyn's wife too, that was common knowledge, fair walda had been known to slip into his bed from time to time, and some even said he'd known the seventh lady frey a deal better than he should have. small wonder he refused to marry. why buy a cow when there were udders all around begging to be milked? cursing under his breath, merrett jammed his heels into his horse's flanks and rode on up the hill. as tempting as it was to drink the gold away, he knew that if he didn't come back with petyr pimple, he had as well not come back at all. lord walder would soon turn two-and-ninety. his ears had started to go, his eyes were almost gone, and his gout was so bad that he had to be carried everywhere. he could not possibly last much longer, all his sons agreed. and when he goes, everything will change, and not for the better. his father was querulous and stubborn, with an iron will and a wasp's tongue, but he did believe in taking care of his own. all of his own, even the ones who had displeased and disappointed him. even the ones whose names he can't remember, once he was gone, though... when ser stevron had been heir, that was one thing. the old man had been grooming stevron for sixty years, and had pounded it into his head that blood was blood. but stevron had died whilst campaigning with the young wolf in the west - of waiting, no doubt, lame lothar had quipped when the raven brought them the news - and his sons and grandsons were a different sort of frey. stevron's son ser ryman stood to inherit now; a thick-witted, stubborn, greedy man. and after ryman came his own sons, edwyn and black walder, who were even worse. fortunately, lame lothar once said, they hate each other even more than they hate us. merrett wasn't certain that was fortunate at all, and for that matter lothar himself might be more dangerous than either of them. lord walder had ordered the slaughter of the starks at roslin's wedding, but it had been lame lothar who had plotted it out with roose bolton, all the way down to which songs would be played. lothar was a very amusing fellow to get drunk with, but merrett would never be so foolish as to turn his back on him. in the twins, you learned early that only full blood siblings could be trusted, and them not very far. it was like to be every son for himself when the old man died, and every daughter as well. the new lord of the crossing would doubtless keep on some of his uncles, nephews, and cousins at the twins, the ones he happened to like or trust, or more likely the ones he thought would prove useful to him. the rest of us he'll shove out to fend for ourselves. the prospect worried merrett more than words could say. he would be forty in less than three years, too old to take up the life of a hedge knight... even if he'd been a knight, which as it happened he wasn't. he had no land, no wealth of his own. he owned the clothes on his back but not much else, not even the horse he was riding. he wasn't clever enough to be a maester, pious enough to be a septon, or savage enough to be a sellsword. the gods gave me no gift but birth, and they stinted me there. what good was it to be the son of a rich and powerful house if you were the ninth son? when you took grandsons and great-grandsons into account, merrett stood a better chance of being chosen high septon than he did of inheriting the twins. i have no luck, he thought bitterly. i have never had any bloody luck. he was a big man, broad around the chest and shoulders if only of middling height, in the last ten years he had grown soft and fleshy, he knew, but when he'd been younger merrett had been almost as robust as ser hosteen, his eldest full brother, who was commonly regarded as the strongest of lord walder frey's brood. as a boy he'd been packed off to crakehall to serve his mother's family as a page. when old lord sumner had made him a squire, everyone had assumed he would be ser merrett in no more than a few years, but the outlaws of the kingswood brotherhood had pissed on those plans. while his fellow squire jaime lannister was covering himself in glory, merrett had first caught the pox from a camp follower, then managed to get captured by a woman, the one called the white fawn. lord sumner had ransomed him back from the outlaws, but in the very next fight he'd been felled by a blow from a mace that had broken his helm and left him insensible for a fortnight. everyone gave him up for dead, they told him later. merrett hadn't died, but his fighting days were done. even the lightest blow to his head brought on blinding pain and reduced him to tears. under these circumstances knighthood was out of the question, lord sumner told him, not unkindly. he was sent back to the twins to face lord walder 's poisonous disdain. after that, merrett's luck had only grown worse. his father had managed to make a good marriage for him, somehow; he wed one of lord darry's daughters, back when the darrys stood high in king aerys's favor. but it seemed as if he no sooner had deflowered his bride than aerys lost his throne. unlike the freys, the darrys had been prominent targaryen loyalists, which cost them half their lands, most of their wealth, and almost all their power. as for his lady wife, she found him a great disappointment from the first, and insisted on popping out nothing but girls for years; three live ones, a stillbirth, and one that died in infancy before she finally produced a son. his eldest daughter had turned out to be a slut, his second a glutton. when ami was caught in the stables with no fewer than three grooms, he'd been forced to marry her off to a bloody hedge knight. that situation could not possibly get any worse, he'd thought... until ser pate decided he could win renown by defeating ser gregor clegane. ami had come running back a widow, to merrett's dismay and the undoubted delight of every stablehand in the twins. merrett had dared to hope that his luck was finally changing when roose bolton chose to wed his walda instead of one of her slimmer, comelier cousins. the bolton alliance was important for house frey and his daughter had helped secure it; he thought that must surely count for something. the old man had soon disabused him. he picked her because she's fat, lord walder said. you think bolton gave a mummer's fart that she was your whelp? think he sat about thinking, 'heh, merrett muttonhead, that's the very man i need for a good- father'? your walda's a sow in silk, that's why he picked her, and i'm not like to thank you for it. we'd have had the same alliance at half the price if your little porkling put down her spoon from time to time. the final humiliation had been delivered with a smile, when lame lothar had summoned him to discuss his role in roslin's wedding. we must each play our part, according to our gifts, his half-brother told him. you shall have one task and one task only, merrett, but i believe you are well suited to it. i want you to see to it that greatjon umber is so bloody drunk that he can hardly stand, let alone fight. and even that i failed at. he'd cozened the huge northman into drinking enough wine to kill any three normal men, yet after roslin had been bedded the greatjon still managed to snatch the sword of the first man to accost him and break his arm in the snatching. it had taken eight of them to get him into chains, and the effort had left two men wounded, one dead, and poor old ser leslyn haigh short half a ear. when he couldn't fight with his hands any longer, umber had fought with his teeth. merrett paused a moment and closed his eyes. his head was throbbing like that bloody drum they'd played at the wedding, and for a moment it was all he could do to stay in the saddle. i have to go on, he told himself. if he could bring back petyr pimple, surely it would put him in ser ryman's good graces. petyr might be a whisker on the hapless side, but he wasn't as cold as edwyn, nor as hot as black walder. the boy will be grateful for my part, and his father will see that i'm loyal, a man worth having about. but only if he was there by sunset with the gold. merrett glanced at the sky. right on time, he needed something to steady his hands. he pulled up the waterskin hung from his saddle, uncorked it, and took a long swallow. the wine was thick and sweet, so dark it was almost black, but gods it tasted good. the curtain wall of oldstones had once encircled the brow of the hill like the crown on a king's head. only the foundation remained, and a few waist-high piles of crumbling stone spotted with lichen. merrett rode along the line of the wall until he came to the place where the gatehouse would have stood. the ruins were more extensive here, and he had to dismount to lead his palfrey through them. in the west, the sun had vanished behind a bank of low clouds. gorse and bracken covered the slopes, and once inside the vanished walls the weeds were chest high. merrett loosened his sword in its scabbard and looked about warily, but saw no outlaws. could i have come on the wrong day? he stopped and rubbed his temples with his thumbs, but that did nothing to ease the pressure behind his eyes. seven bloody hells... from somewhere deep within the castle, faint music came drifting through the trees. merrett found himself shivering, despite his cloak. he pulled open his waterskin and had another drink of wine. i could just get back on my horse, ride to oldtown, and drink the gold away. no good ever came from dealing with outlaws. that vile little bitch wenda had burned a fawn into the cheek of his arse while she had him captive. no wonder his wife despised him. i have to go through with this. petyr pimple might be lord of the crossing one day, edwyn has no sons and black walder's only got bastards. petyr will remember who came to get him. he took another swallow, corked the skin up, and led his palfrey through broken stones, gorse, and thin wind-whipped trees, following the sounds to what had been the castle ward. fallen leaves lay thick upon the ground, like soldiers after some great slaughter. a man in patched, faded greens was sitting cross-legged atop a weathered stone sepulcher, fingering the strings of a woodharp. the music was soft and sad. merrett knew the song. high in the halls of the kings who are gone, fenny would dance with her ghosts... get off there, merrett said. you're sitting on a king. old tristifer don't mind my bony arse. the hammer of justice, they called him. been a long while since he heard any new songs. the outlaw hopped down. trim and slim, he had a narrow face and foxy features, but his mouth was so wide that his smile seemed to touch his ears. a few strands of thin brown hair were blowing across his brow. he pushed them back with his free hand and said, do you remember me, my lord? no. merrett frowned. why would i? i sang at your daughter's wedding. and passing well, i thought. that pate she married was a cousin. we're all cousins in sevenstreams. didn't stop him from turning niggard when it was time to pay me. he shrugged. why is it your lord father never has me play at the twins? don't i make enough noise for his lordship? he likes it loud, i have been hearing. you bring the gold? asked a harsher voice, behind him. merrett's throat was dry. bloody outlaws, always hiding in the bushes. it had been the same in the kingswood. you'd think you'd caught five of them, and ten more would spring from nowhere. when he turned, they were all around him; an ill-favored gaggle of leathery old men and smooth-cheeked lads younger than petyr pimple, the lot of them clad in roughspun rags, boiled leather, and bits of dead men's armor. there was one woman with them, bundled up in a hooded cloak three times too big for her. merrett was too flustered to count them, but there seemed to be a dozen at the least, maybe a score. i asked a question. the speaker was a big bearded man with crooked green teeth and a broken nose; taller than merrett, though not so heavy in the belly. a halfhelm covered his head, a patched yellow cloak his broad shoulders. where's our gold? in my saddlebag. a hundred golden dragons. merrett cleared his throat. you'll get it when i see that petyr - a squat one-eyed outlaw strode forward before he could finish, reached into the saddlebag bold as you please, and found the sack. merrett started to grab him, then thought better of it. the outlaw opened the drawstring, removed a coin, and bit it. tastes right. he hefted the sack. feels right too. they're going to take the gold and keep petyr too, merrett thought in sudden panic. that's the whole ransom. all you asked for. his palms were sweating. he wiped them on his breeches. which one of you is beric dondarrion? dondarrion had been a lord before he turned outlaw, he might still be a man of honor. why, that would be me, said the one-eyed man. you're a bloody liar, jack, said the big bearded man in the yellow cloak. it's my turn to be lord beric. does that mean i have to be thoros? the singer laughed. my lord, sad to say, lord beric was needed elsewhere. the times are troubled, and there are many battles to fight. but we'll sort you out just as he would, have no fear. merrett had plenty of fear. his head was pounding too. much more of this and he'd be sobbing. you have your gold, he said. give me my nephew, and i'll be gone. petyr was actually more a great half-nephew, but there was no need to go into that. he's in the godswood, said the man in the yellow cloak. we'll take you to him. notch, you hold his horse. merrett handed over the bridle reluctantly. he did not see what other choice he had. my water skin, he heard himself say. a swallow of wine, to settle my - we don't drink with your sort, yellow cloak said curtly. it's this way. follow me. leaves crunched beneath their heels, and every step sent a spike of pain through merrett's temple. they walked in silence, the wind gusting around them. the last light of the setting sun was in his eyes as he clambered over the mossy hummocks that were all that remained of the keep. behind was the godswood. petyr pimple was hanging from the limb of an oak, a noose tight around his long thin neck. his eyes bulged from a black face, staring down at merrett accusingly. you came too late, they seemed to say. but he hadn't. he hadn't! he had come when they told him. you killed him, he croaked. sharp as a blade, this one, said the one-eyed man. an aurochs was thundering through merrett's head. mother have mercy, he thought. i brought the gold. that was good of you, said the singer amiably. we'll see that it's put to good use. merrett turned away from petyr. he could taste the bile in the back of his throat. you... you had no right. we had a rope, said yellow cloak. that's right enough. two of the outlaws seized merrett's arms and bound them tight behind his back. he was too deep in shock to struggle. no, was all he could manage. i only came to ransom petyr. you said if you had the gold by sunset he wouldn't be harmed... well, said the singer, you've got us there, my lord. that was a lie of sorts, as it happens. the one-eyed outlaw came forward with a long coil of hempen rope. he looped one end around merrett's neck, pulled it tight, and tied a hard knot under his ear. the other end he threw over the limb of the oak. the big man in the yellow cloak caught it. what are you doing? merrett knew how stupid that sounded, but he could not believe what was happening, even then. you'd never dare hang a frey. yellow cloak laughed. that other one, the pimply boy, he said the same thing. he doesn't mean it. he cannot mean it. my father will pay you. i'm worth a good ransom, more than petyr, twice as much. the singer sighed. lord walder might be half-blind and gouty, but he's not so stupid as to snap at the same bait twice. next time he'll send a hundred swords instead of a hundred dragons, i fear. he will! merrett tried to sound stem, but his voice betrayed him. he'll send a thousand swords, and kill you all. he has to catch us first. the singer glanced up at poor petyr. and he can't hang us twice, now can he? he drew a melancholy air from the strings of his woodharp. here now, don't soil yourself. all you need to do is answer me a question, and i'll tell them to let you go. merrett would tell them anything if it meant his life. what do you want to know? i'll tell you true, i swear it. the outlaw gave him an encouraging smile. well, as it happens, we're looking for a dog that ran away. a dog? merrett was lost. what kind of dog? he answers to the name sandor clegane. thoros says he was making for the twins. we found the ferrymen who took him across the trident, and the poor sod he robbed on the kingsroad. did you see him at the wedding, perchance? the red wedding? merrett's skull felt as if it were about to split, but he did his best to recall. there had been so much confusion, but surely someone would have mentioned joffrey's dog sniffing round the twins. he wasn't in the castle. not at the main feast... he might have been at the bastard feast, or in the camps, but... no, someone would have said... he would have had a child with him, said the singer. a skinny girl, about ten. or perhaps a boy the same age. i don't think so, said merrett. not that i knew. no? ah, that's a pity. well, up you go. no, merrett squealed loudly. no, don't, i gave you your answer, you said you'd let me go. seems to me that what i said was i'd tell them to let you go. the singer looked at yellow cloak. lem, let him go. go bugger yourself, the big outlaw replied brusquely. the singer gave merrett a helpless shrug and began to play, the day they hanged black robin. please. the last of merrett's courage was running down his leg. i've done you no harm. i brought the gold, the way you said. i answered your question. i have children. that young wolf never will, said the one-eyed outlaw. merrett could hardly think for the pounding in his head. he shamed us, the whole realm was laughing, we had to cleanse the stain on our honor. his father had said all that and more. maybe so. what do a bunch o' bloody peasants know about a lord's honor? yellow cloak wrapped the end of the rope around his hand three times. we know some about murder, though. not murder. his voice was shrill. it was vengeance, we had a right to our vengeance. it was war. aegon, we called him jinglebell, a poor lackwit never hurt anyone, lady stark cut his throat. we lost half a hundred men in the camps. ser garse goodbrook, kyra's husband, and ser tytos, jared's son... someone smashed his head in with an axe... stark's direwo if killed four of our wolfhounds and tore the kennelmaster's arm off his shoulder, even after we'd filled him full of quarrels... so you sewed his head on robb stark's neck after both o' them were dead, said yellow cloak. my father did that. all i did was drink. you wouldn't kill a man for drinking. merrett remembered something then, something that might be the saving of him. they say lord beric always gives a man a trial, that he won't kill a man unless something's proved against him. you can't prove anything against me. the red wedding was my father's work, and ryman's and lord bolton's. lothar rigged the tents to collapse and put the crossbowmen in the gallery with the musicians, bastard walder led the attack on the camps... they're the ones you want, not me, i only drank some wine... you have no witness. as it happens, you're wrong there. the singer turned to the hooded woman. milady? the outlaws parted as she came forward, saying no word. when she lowered her hood, something tightened inside merrett's chest, and for a moment he could not breathe. no. no, i saw her die. she was dead for a day and night before they stripped her naked and threw her body in the river. raymund opened her throat from ear to ear. she was dead. her cloak and collar hid the gash his brother's blade had made, but her face was even worse than he remembered. the flesh had gone pudding soft in the water and turned the color of curdled milk. half her hair was gone and the rest had turned as white and brittle as a crone's. beneath her ravaged scalp, her face was shredded skin and black blood where she had raked herself with her nails. but her eyes were the most terrible thing. her eyes saw him, and they hated. she don't speak, said the big man in the yellow cloak. you bloody bastards cut her throat too deep for that. but she remembers. he turned to the dead woman and said, what do you say, m'lady? was he part of it? lady catelyn's eyes never left him. she nodded. merrett frey opened his mouth to plead, but the noose choked off his words. his feet left the ground, the rope cutting deep into the soft flesh beneath his chin. up into the air he jerked, kicking and twisting, up and up and up.