he woke to the creak of old iron hinges. who? he croaked. at least he had his voice back, raw and hoarse though it was. the fever was still on him, and tyrion had no notion of the hour. how long had he slept this time? he was so weak, so damnably weak. who? he called again, more loudly. torchlight spilled through the open door, but within the chamber the only light came from the stub of a candle beside his bed. when he saw a shape moving toward him, tyrion shivered. here in maegor's holdfast, every servant was in the queen's pay, so any visitor might be another of cersei's catspaws, sent to finish the work ser mandon had begun. then the man stepped into the candlelight, got a good look at the dwarfs pale face, and chortled. cut yourself shaving, did you? tyrion's fingers went to the great gash that ran from above one eye down to his jaw, across what remained of his nose. the proud flesh was still raw and warm to the touch. with a fearful big razor, yes. bronn's coal-black hair was freshly washed and brushed straight back from the hard lines of his face, and he was dressed in high boots of soft, tooled leather, a wide belt studded with nuggets of silver, and a cloak of pale green silk. across the dark grey wool of his doublet, a burning chain was embroidered diagonally in bright green thread. where have you been? tyrion demanded of him. i sent for you... it must have been a fortnight ago. four days ago, more like, the sellsword said, and i've been here twice, and found you dead to the world. not dead. though my sweet sister did try. perhaps he should not have said that aloud, but tyrion was past caring. cersei was behind ser mandon's attempt to kill him, he knew that in his gut. what's that ugly thing on your chest? bronn grinned. my knightly sigil. a flaming chain, green, on a smokegrey field. by your lord father's command, i'm ser bronn of the blackwater now, imp. see you don't forget it. tyrion put his hands on the featherbed and squirmed back a few inches, against the pillows. i was the one who promised you knighthood, remember? he had liked that by your lord father's command not at all. lord tywin had wasted little time. moving his son from the tower of the hand to claim it for himself was a message anyone could read, and this was another. i lose half my nose and you gain a knighthood. the gods have a deal to answer for. his voice was sour. did my father dub you himself ? no. them of us as survived the fight at the winch towers got ourselves dabbed by the high septon and dubbed by the kingsguard. took half the bloody day, with only three of the white swords left to do the honors. i knew ser mandon died in the battle. shoved into the river by pod, half a heartbeat before the treacherous bastard could drive his sword through my heart. who else was lost? the hound, said bronn. not dead, only gone. the gold cloaks say he turned craven and you led a sortie in his place. not one of my better notions. tyrion could feel the scar tissue pull tight when he frowned. he waved bronn toward a chair. my sister has mistaken me for a mushroom. she keeps me in the dark and feeds me shit. pod's a good lad, but the knot in his tongue is the size of casterly rock, and i don't trust half of what he tells me. i sent him to bring ser jacelyn and he came back and told me he's dead. him, and thousands more. bronn sat. how? tyrion demanded, feeling that much sicker. during the battle. your sister sent the kettleblacks to fetch the king back to the red keep, the way i hear it. when the gold cloaks saw him leaving, half of them decided they'd leave with him. ironhand put himself in their path and tried to order them back to the walls. they say bywater was blistering them good and almost had'em ready to turn when someone put an arrow through his neck. he didn't seem so fearsome then, so they dragged him off his horse and killed him. another debt to lay at cersei's door. my nephew, he said, joffrey. was he in any danger? no more'n some, and less than most. had he suffered any harm? taken a wound? mussed his hair, stubbed his toe, cracked a nail? not as i heard. i warned cersei what would happen. who commands the gold cloaks now? your lord father's given them to one of his westermen, some knight named addam marbrand. in most cases the gold cloaks would have resented having an outsider placed over them, but ser addam marbrand was a shrewd choice. like jaime, he was the sort of man other men liked to follow. i have lost the city watch. i sent pod looking for shagga, but he's had no luck. the stone crows are still in the kingswood. shagga seems to have taken a fancy to the place. timett led the burned men home, with all the plunder they took from stannis's camp after the fighting. chella turned up with a dozen black ears at the river gate one morning, but your father's red cloaks chased them off while the kingslanders threw dung and cheered. ingrates. the black ears died for them. whilst tyrion lay drugged and dreaming, his own blood had pulled his claws out, one by one. i want you to go to my sister. her precious son made it through the battle unscathed, so cersei has no more need of a hostage. she swore to free alayaya once - she did. eight, nine days ago, after the whipping. tyrion shoved himself up higher, ignoring the sudden stab of pain through his shoulder. whipping? they tied her to a post in the yard and scourged her, then shoved her out the gate naked and bloody. she was learning to read, tyrion thought, absurdly. across his face the scar stretched tight, and for a moment it felt as though his head would burst with rage. alayaya was a whore, true enough, but a sweeter, braver, more innocent girl he had seldom met. tyrion had never touched her; she had been no more than a veil, to hide shae. in his carelessness, he had never thought what the role might cost her. i promised my sister i would treat tommen as she treated alayaya, he remembered aloud. he felt as though he might retch. how can i scourge an eight- year-old boy? but if i don't, cersei wins. you don't have tommen, bronn said bluntly. once she learned that ironhand was dead, the queen sent the kettleblacks after him, and no one at rosby had the balls to say them nay. another blow; yet a relief as well, he must admit it. he was fond of tommen. the kettleblacks were supposed to be ours, he reminded bronn with more than a touch of irritation. they were, so long as i could give them two of your pennies for every one they had from the queen, but now she's raised the stakes. osney and osfryd were made knights after the battle, same as me. gods know what for, no one saw them do any fighting. my hirelings betray me, my friends are scourged and shamed, and i lie here rotting, tyrion thought. i thought i won the bloody battle. is this what triumph tastes like? is it true that stannis was put to rout by renly's ghost? bronn smiled thinly. from the winch towers, all we saw was banners in the mud and men throwing down their spears to run, but there's hundreds in the pot shops and brothels who'll tell you how they saw lord renly kill this one or that one. most of stannis's host had been renly's to start, and they went right back over at the sight of him in that shiny green armor. after all his planning, after the sortie and the bridge of ships, after getting his face slashed in two, tyrion had been eclipsed by a dead man. if indeed renly is dead. something else he would need to look into. how did stannis escape? his lyseni kept their galleys out in the bay, beyond your chain. when the battle turned bad, they put in along the bay shore and took off as many as they could. men were killing each other to get aboard, toward the end. what of robb stark, what has he been doing? there's some of his wolves burning their way down toward duskendale. your father's sending this lord tarly to sort them out. i'd half a mind to join him. it's said he's a good soldier, and openhanded with the plunder. the thought of losing bronn was the final straw. no. your place is here. you're the captain of the hand's guard. you're not the hand, bronn reminded him sharply. your father is, and he's got his own bloody guard. what happened to all the men you hired for me? some died at the winch towers. that uncle of yours, ser kevan, he paid the rest of us and tossed us out. how good of him, tyrion said acidly. does that mean you've lost your taste for gold? not bloody likely. good, said tyrion, because as it happens, i still have need of you. what do you know of ser mandon moore? bronn laughed. i know he's bloody well drowned. i owe him a great debt, but how to pay it? he touched his face, feeling the scar. i know precious little of the man, if truth be told. he had eyes like a fish and he wore a white cloak. what else do you need to know? everything, said tyrion, for a start. what he wanted was proof that ser mandon had been cersei's, but he dare not say so aloud. in the red keep a man did best to hold his tongue. there were rats in the walls, and little birds who talked too much, and spiders. help me up, he said, struggling with the bedclothes. it's time i paid a call on my father, and past time i let myself be seen again. such a pretty sight, mocked bronn. what's half a nose, on a face like mine? but speaking of pretty, is margaery tyrell in king's landing yet? no. she's coming, though, and the city's mad with love for her. the tyrells have been carting food up from highgarden and giving it away in her name. hundreds of wayns each day. there's thousands of tyrell men swaggering about with little golden roses sewn on their doublets, and not a one is buying his own wine. wife, widow, or whore, the women are all giving up their virtue to every peach-fuzz boy with a gold rose on his teat. they spit on me, and buy drinks for the tyrells. tyrion slid from the bed to the floor. his legs turned wobbly beneath him, the room spun, and he had to grasp bronn's arm to keep from pitching headlong into the rushes. pod! he shouted. podrick payne! where in the seven hells are you? pain gnawed at him like a toothless dog. tyrion hated weakness, especially his own. it shamed him, and shame made him angry. pod, get in here! the boy came running. when he saw tyrion standing and clutching bronn's arm, he gaped at them. my lord. you stood. is that... do you... do you need wine? dreamwine? should i get the maester? he said you must stay. abed, i mean. i have stayed abed too long. bring me some clean garb. garb? how the boy could be so clearheaded and resourceful in battle and so confused at all other times tyrion could never comprehend. clothing, he repeated. tunic, doublet, breeches, hose. for me. to dress in. so i can leave this bloody cell. it took all three of them to clothe him. hideous though his face might be, the worst of his wounds was the one at the juncture of shoulder and arm, where his own mail had been driven back into his armpit by an arrow. pus and blood still seeped from the discolored flesh whenever maester frenken changed his dressing, and any movement sent a stab of agony through him. in the end, tyrion settled for a pair of breeches and an oversized bed robe that hung loosely about his shoulders. bronn yanked his boots onto his feet while pod went in search of a stick for him to lean on. he drank a cup of dreamwine to fortify himself. the wine was sweetened with honey, with just enough of the poppy to make his wounds bearable for a time. even so, he was dizzy by the time he turned the latch, and the descent down the twisting stone steps made his legs tremble. he walked with the stick in one hand and the other on pod's shoulder. a serving girl was coming up as they were going down. she stared at them with wide white eyes, as if she were looking at a ghost. the dwarf has risen from the dead, tyrion thought. and look, he's uglier than ever, run tell your friends. maegor's holdfast was the strongest place in the red keep, a castle within the castle, surrounded by a deep dry moat lined with spikes. the drawbridge was up for the night when they reached the door. ser meryn trant stood before it in his pale armor and white cloak. lower the bridge, tyrion commanded him. the queen's orders are to raise the bridge at night. ser meryn had always been cersei's creature. the queen's asleep, and i have business with my father. there was magic in the name of lord tywin lannister. grumbling, ser meryn trant gave the command, and the drawbridge was lowered. a second kingsguard knight stood sentry across the moat. ser osmund kettleblack managed a smile when he saw tyrion waddling toward him. feeling stronger, m'lord? much. when's the next battle? i can scarcely wait. when pod and he reached the serpentine steps, however, tyrion could only gape at them in dismay. i will never climb those by myself, he confessed to himself. swallowing his dignity, he asked bronn to carry him, hoping against hope that at this hour there would be no one to see and smile, no one to tell the tale of the dwarf being carried up the steps like a babe in arms. the outer ward was crowded with tents and pavilions, dozens of them. tyrell men, podrick payne explained as they threaded their way through a maze of silk and canvas. lord rowan's too, and lord redwyne's. there wasn't room enough for all. in the castle, i mean. some took rooms. rooms in the city. in inns and all. they're here for the wedding. the king's wedding, king joffrey's. will you be strong enough to attend, my lord? ravening weasels could not keep me away. there was this to be said for weddings over battles, at least; it was less likely that someone would cut off your nose. lights still burned dimly behind shuttered windows in the tower of the hand. the men on the door wore the crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms of his father's household guard. tyrion knew them both, and they admitted him on sight... though neither could bear to look long at his face, he noted. within they came upon ser addam marbrand, descending the turnpike stair in the ornate black breastplate and cloth-of-gold cloak of an officer in the city watch. my lord, he said, how good to see you on your feet. i'd heard - - rumors of a small grave being dug? me too. under the circumstances it seemed best to get up. i hear you're commander of the city watch. shall i offer congratulations or condolences? both, i fear. ser addam smiled. death and desertion have left me with some forty-four hundred. only the gods and littlefinger know how we are to go on paying wages for so many, but your sister forbids me to dismiss any. still anxious, cersei? the battle's done, the gold cloaks won't help you now do you come from my father? he asked. aye. i fear i did not leave him in the best of moods. lord tywin feels forty- four hundred guardsmen more than sufficient to find one lost squire, but your cousin tyrek remains missing. tyrek was the son of his late uncle tygett, a boy of thirteen. he had vanished in the riot, not long after wedding the lady ermesande, a suckling babe who happened to be the last surviving heir of house hayford. and likely the first bride in the history of the seven kingdoms to be widowed before she was weaned. i couldn't find him either, confessed tyrion. he's feeding worms, said bronn with his usual tact. ironhand looked for him, and the eunuch rattled a nice fat purse. they had no more luck than we did. give it up, ser. ser addam gazed at the sellsword with distaste. lord tywin is stubborn where his blood is concerned. he will have the lad, alive or dead, and i mean to oblige him. he looked back to tyrion. you will find your father in his solar. my solar, thought tyrion. i believe i know the way. the way was up more steps, but this time he climbed under his own power, with one hand on pod's shoulder. bronn opened the door for him. lord tywin lannister was seated beneath the window, writing by the glow of an oil lamp. he raised his eyes at the sound of the latch. tyrion. calmly, he laid his quill aside. i'm pleased you remember me, my lord. tyrion released his grip on pod, leaned his weight on the stick, and waddled closer. something is wrong, he knew at once. ser bronn, lord tywin said, podrick. perhaps you had best wait without until we are done. the look bronn gave the hand was little less than insolent; nonetheless, he bowed and withdrew, with pod on his heels. the heavy door swung shut behind them, and tyrion lannister was alone with his father. even with the windows of the solar shuttered against the night, the chill in the room was palpable. what sort of lies has cersei been telling him? the lord of caster ly rock was as lean as a man twenty years younger, even handsome in his austere way. stiff blond whiskers covered his cheeks, framing a stem face, a bald head, a hard mouth. about his throat he wore a chain of golden hands, the fingers of each clasping the wrist of the next. that's a handsome chain, tyrion said. though it looked better on me. lord tywin ignored the sally. you had best be seated. is it wise for you to be out of your sickbed? i am sick of my sickbed. tyrion knew how much his father despised weakness. he claimed the nearest chair. such pleasant chambers you have. would you believe it, while i was dying, someone moved me to a dark little cell in maegor's? the red keep is overcrowded with wedding guests. once they depart, we will find you more suitable accommodations. i rather liked these accommodations. have you set a date for this great wedding? joffrey and margaery shall marry on the first day of the new year, which as it happens is also the first day of the new century. the ceremony will herald the dawn of a new era. a new lannister era, thought tyrion. oh, bother, i fear i've made other plans for that day. did you come here just to complain of your bedchamber and make your lame japes? i have important letters to finish. important letters. to be sure. some battles are won with swords and spears, others with quills and ravens. spare me these coy reproaches, tyrion. i visited your sickbed as often as maester ballabar would allow it, when you seemed like to die. he steepled his fingers under his chin. why did you dismiss ballabar? tyrion shrugged. maester frenken is not so determined to keep me insensate. ballabar came to the city in lord redwyne's retinue. a gifted healer, it's said. it was kind of cersei to ask him to look after you. she feared for your life. feared that i might keep it, you mean. doubtless that's why she's never once left my bedside. don't be impertinent. cersei has a royal wedding to plan, i am waging a war, and you have been out of danger for at least a fortnight. lord tywin studied his son's disfigured face, his pale green eyes unflinching. though the wound is ghastly enough, i'll grant you. what madness possessed you? the foe was at the gates with a battering ram. if jaime had led the sortie, you'd call it valor. jaime would never be so foolish as to remove his helm in battle. i trust you killed the man who cut you? oh, the wretch is dead enough. though it had been podrick payne who'd killed ser mandon, shoving him into the river to drown beneath the weight of his armor. a dead enemy is a joy forever, tyrion said blithely, though ser mandon was not his true enemy. the man had no reason to want him dead. he was only a catspaw, and i believe i know the cat. she told him to make certain i did not survive the battle. but without proof lord tywin would never listen to such a charge. why are you here in the city, father? he asked. shouldn't you be off fighting lord stannis or robb stark or someone? and the sooner the better. until lord redwyne brings his fleet up, we lack the ships to assail dragonstone. it makes no matter. stannis baratheon's sun set on the blackwater. as for stark, the boy is still in the west, but a large force of northmen under helman tallhart and robert glover are descending toward duskendale. i've sent lord tarly to meet them, while ser gregor drives up the kingsroad to cut off their retreat. tallhart and glover will be caught between them, with a third of stark's strength. duskendale? there was nothing at duskendale worth such a risk. had the young wolf finally blundered? it's nothing you need trouble yourself with. your face is pale as death, and there's blood seeping through your dressings. say what you want and take yourself back to bed. what i want... his throat felt raw and tight. what did he want? more than you can ever give me, father. pod tells me that little finger's been made lord of harrenhal. an empty title, so long as roose bolton holds the castle for robb stark, yet lord baelish was desirous of the honor. he did us good service in the matter of the tyrell marriage. a lannister pays his debts. the tyrell marriage had been tyrion's notion, in point of fact, but it would seem churlish to try to claim that now. that title may not be as empty as you think, he warned. littlefinger does nothing without good reason. but be that as it may. you said something about paying debts, i believe? and you want your own reward, is that it? very well. what is it you would have of me? lands, castle, some office? a little bloody gratitude would make a nice start. lord tywin stared at him, unblinking. mummers and monkeys require applause. so did aerys, for that matter. you did as you were commanded, and i am sure it was to the best of your ability. no one denies the part you played. the part i played? what nostrils tyrion had left must surely have flared. i saved your bloody city, it seems to me. most people seem to feel that it was my attack on lord stannis's flank that turned the tide of battle. lords tyrell, rowan, redwyne, and tarly fought nobly as well, and i'm told it was your sister cersei who set the pyromancers to making the wildfire that destroyed the baratheon fleet. while all i did was get my nosehairs trimmed, is that it? tyrion could not keep the bitterness out of his voice. your chain was a clever stroke, and crucial to our victory. is that what you wanted to hear? i am told we have you to thank for our dornish alliance as well. you may be pleased to learn that myrcella has arrived safely at sunspear. ser arys oakheart writes that she has taken a great liking to princess arianne, and that prince trystane is enchanted with her. i mislike giving house martell a hostage, but i suppose that could not be helped. we'll have our own hostage, tyrion said. a council seat was also part of the bargain. unless prince doran brings an army when he comes to claim it, he'll be putting himself in our power. would that a council seat were all martell came to claim, lord tywin said. you promised him vengeance as well. i promised him justice. call it what you will. it still comes down to blood. not an item in short supply, surely? i splashed through lakes of it during the battle. tyrion saw no reason not to cut to the heart of the matter. or have you grown so fond of gregor clegane that you cannot bear to part with him? ser gregor has his uses, as did his brother. every lord has need of a beast from time to time... a lesson you seem to have learned, judging from ser bronn and those clansmen of yours. tyrion thought of timett's burned eye, shagga with his axe, chella in her necklace of dried ears. and bronn. bronn most of all. the woods are full of beasts, he reminded his father. the alleyways as well. true. perhaps other dogs would hunt as well. i shall think on it. if there is nothing else... you have important letters, yes. tyrion rose on unsteady legs, closed his eyes for an instant as a wave of dizziness washed over him, and took a shaky step toward the door. later, he would reflect that he should have taken a second, and then a third, instead he turned. what do i want, you ask? i'll tell you what i want. i want what is mine by rights. i want casterly rock. his father's mouth grew hard. your brother's birthright? the knights of the kingsguard are forbidden to marry, to father children, and to hold land, you know that as well as i. the day jaime put on that white cloak, he gave up his claim to casterly rock, but never once have you acknowledged it. it's past time. i want you to stand up before the realm and proclaim that i am your son and your lawful heir. lord tywin's eyes were a pale green flecked with gold, as luminous as they were merciless. casterly rock, he declared in a flat cold dead tone. and then, never. the word hung between them, huge, sharp, poisoned. i knew the answer before i asked, tyrion said. eighteen years since jaime joined the kingsguard, and i never once raised the issue. i must have known. i must always have known. why? he made himself ask, though he knew he would rue the question. you ask that? you, who killed your mother to come into the world? you are an ill-made, devious, disobedient, spiteful little creature full of envy, lust, and low cunning. men's laws give you the right to bear my name and display my colors, since i cannot prove that you are not mine. to teach me humility, the gods have condemned me to watch you waddle about wearing that proud lion that was my father's sigil and his father's before him. but neither gods nor men shall ever compel me to let you turn casterly rock into your whorehouse. my whorehouse? the dawn broke; tyrion understood all at once where this bile had come from. he ground his teeth together and said, cersei told you about alayaya. is that her name? i confess, i cannot remember the names of all your whores. who was the one you married as a boy? tysha. he spat out the answer, defiant. and that camp follower on the green fork? why do you care? he asked, unwilling even to speak shae's name in his presence. i don't. no more than i care if they live or die. it was you who had yaya whipped. it was not a question. your sister told me of your threats against my grandsons. lord tywin's voice was colder than ice. did she lie? tyrion would not deny it. i made threats, yes. to keep alayaya safe. so the kettleblacks would not misuse her. to save a whore's virtue, you threatened your own house, your own kin? is that the way of it? you were the one who taught me that a good threat is often more telling than a blow. not that joffrey hasn't tempted me sore a few hundred times. if you're so anxious to whip people, start with him. but tommen... why would i harm tommen? he's a good lad, and mine own blood. as was your mother. lord tywin rose abruptly, to tower over his dwarf son. go back to your bed, tyrion, and speak to me no more of your rights to casterly rock. you shall have your reward, but it shall be one i deem appropriate to your service and station. and make no mistake - this was the last time i will suffer you to bring shame onto house lannister. you are done with whores. the next one i find in your bed, i'll hang. the eunuch was humming tunelessly to himself as he came through the door, dressed in flowing robes of peach colored silk and smelling of lemons. when he saw tyrion seated by the hearth, he stopped and grew very still. my lord tyrion, came out in a squeak, punctuated by a nervous giggle. so you do remember me? i had begun to wonder. it is so very good to see you looking so strong and well. varys smiled his slimiest smile. though i confess, i had not thought to find you in mine own humble chambers. they are humble. excessively so, in truth. tyrion had waited until varys was summoned by his father before slipping in to pay him a visit. the eunuch's apartments were sparse and small, three snug windowless chambers under the north wall. i'd hoped to discover bushel baskets of juicy secrets to while away the waiting, but there's not a paper to be found. he'd searched for hidden passages too, knowing the spider must have ways of coming and going unseen, but those had proved equally elusive. there was water in your flagon, gods have mercy, he went on, your sleeping cell is no wider than a coffin, and that bed... is it actually made of stone, or does it only feel that way? varys closed the door and barred it. i am plagued with backaches, my lord, and prefer to sleep upon a hard surface. i would have taken you for a featherbed man. i am full of surprises. are you cross with me for abandoning you after the battle? it made me think of you as one of my family. it was not for want of love, my good lord. i have such a delicate disposition, and your scar is so dreadful to look upon... he gave an exaggerated shudder. your poor nose... tyrion rubbed irritably at the scab. perhaps i should have a new one made of gold. what sort of nose would you suggest, varys? one like yours, to smell out secrets? or should i tell the goldsmith that i want my father's nose? he smiled. my noble father labors so diligently that i scarce see him anymore. tell me, is it true that he's restoring grand maester pycelle to the small council? it is, my lord. do i have my sweet sister to thank for that? pycelle had been his sister's creature; tyrion had stripped the man of office, beard, and dignity, and flung him down into a black cell. not at all, my lord. thank the archmaesters of oldtown, those who wished to insist on pycelle's restoration on the grounds that only the conclave may make or unmake a grand maester. bloody fools, thought tyrion. i seem to recall that maegor the cruel's headsman unmade three with his axe. quite true, varys said. and the second aegon fed grand maester gerardys to his dragon. alas, i am quite dragonless. i suppose i could have dipped pycelle in wildfire and set him ablaze. would the citadel have preferred that? well, it would have been more in keeping with tradition. the eunuch tittered. thankfully, wiser heads prevailed, and the conclave accepted the fact of pycelle's dismissal and set about choosing his successor. after giving due consideration to maester turquin the cordwainer's son and maester erreck the hedge knight's bastard, and thereby demonstrating to their own satisfaction that ability counts for more than birth in their order, the conclave was on the verge of sending us maester gormon, a tyrell of highgarden. when i told your lord father, he acted at once. the conclave met in oldtown behind closed doors, tyrion knew; its deliberations were supposedly a secret. so varys has little birds in the citadel too. i see. so my father decided to nip the rose before it bloomed. he had to chuckle. pycelle is a toad. but better a lannister toad than a tyrell toad, no? grand maester pycelle has always been a good friend to your house, varys said sweetly. perhaps it will console you to learn that ser boros blount is also being restored. cersei had stripped ser boros of his white cloak for failing to die in the defense of prince tommen when bronn had seized the boy on the rosby road. the man was no friend of tyrion' s, but after that he likely hated cersei almost as much. i suppose that's something. blount is a blustering coward, he said amiably. is he? oh dear. still, the knights of the kingsguard do serve for life, traditionally. perhaps ser boros will prove braver in future. he will no doubt remain very loyal. to my father, said tyrion pointedly. while we are on the subject of the kingsguard... i wonder, could this delightfully unexpected visit of yours happen to concern ser boros's fallen brother, the gallant ser mandon moore? the eunuch stroked a powdered cheek. your man bronn seems most interested in him of late. bronn had turned up all he could on ser mandon, but no doubt varys knew a deal more... should he choose to share it. the man seems to have been quite friendless, tyrion said carefully. sadly, said varys, oh, sadly. you might find some kin if you turned over enough stones back in the vale, but here... lord arryn brought him to king's landing and robert gave him his white cloak, but neither loved him much, i fear. nor was he the sort the smallfolk cheer in tourneys, despite his undoubted prowess. why, even his brothers of the kingsguard never warmed to him. ser barristan was once heard to say that the man had no friend but his sword and no life but duty... but you know, i do not think selmy meant it altogether as praise. which is queer when you consider it, is it not? those are the very qualities we seek in our kingsguard, it could be said - men who live not for themselves, but for their king. by those lights, our brave ser mandon was the perfect white knight. and he died as a knight of the kingsguard ought, with sword in hand, defending one of the king's own blood. the eunuch gave him a slimy smile and watched him sharply. trying to murder one of the king's own blood, you mean. tyrion wondered if varys knew rather more than he was saying. nothing he'd just heard was new to him; bronn had brought back much the same reports. he needed a link to cersei, some sign that ser mandon had been his sister's catspaw. what we want is not always what we get, he reflected bitterly, which reminded him... it is not ser mandon who brings me here. to be sure. the eunuch crossed the room to his flagon of water. may i serve you, my lord? he asked as he filled a cup. yes. but not with water. he folded his hands together. i want you to bring me shae. varys took a drink. is that wise, my lord? the dear sweet child, it would be such a shame if your father hanged her. it did not surprise him that varys knew. no, it's not wise, it's bloody madness. i want to see her one last time, before i send her away. i cannot abide having her so close. i understand. how could you? tyrion had seen her only yesterday, climbing the serpentine steps with a pail of water. he had watched as a young knight had offered to carry the heavy pail. the way she had touched his arm and smiled for him had tied tyrion's guts into knots. they passed within inches of each other, him descending and her climbing, so close that he could smell the clean fresh scent of her hair. mtord, she'd said to him, with a little curtsy, and he wanted to reach out and grab her and kiss her right there, but all he could do was nod stiffly and waddle on past. i have seen her several times, he told varys, but i dare not speak to her. i suspect that all my movements are being watched. you are wise to suspect so, my good lord. who? he cocked his head. the kettleblacks report frequently to your sweet sister. when i think of how much coin i paid those wretched... do you think there's any chance that more gold might win them away from cersei? there is always a chance, but i should not care to wager on the likelihood. they are knights now, all three, and your sister has promised them further advancement. a wicked little titter burst from the eunuch's lips. and the eldest, ser osmund of the kingsguard, dreams of certain other... favors... as well. you can match the queen coin for coin, i have no doubt, but she has a second purse that is quite inexhaustible. seven hells, thought tyrion. are you suggesting that cersei' s fucking osmund kettleblack? oh, dear me, no, that would be dreadfully dangerous, don't you think? no, the queen only hints... perhaps on the morrow, or when the wedding's done... and then a smile, a whisper, a ribald jest... a breast brushing lightly against his sleeve as they pass... and yet it seems to serve. but what would a eunuch know of such things? the tip of his tongue ran across his lower lip like a shy pink animal. if i could somehow push them beyond sly fondling, arrange for father to catch them abed together... tyrion fingered the scab on his nose. he did not see how it could be done, but perhaps some plan would come to him later. are the kettleblacks the only ones? would that were true, my lord. i fear there are many eyes upon you. you are... how shall we say? conspicuous? and not well loved, it grieves me to tell you. janos slynt's sons would gladly inform on you to avenge their father, and our sweet lord petyr has friends in half the brothels of king's landing. should you be so unwise as to visit any of them, he will know at once, and your lord father soon thereafter. it's even worse than i feared. and my father? who does he have spying on me? this time the eunuch laughed aloud. why, me, my lord. tyrion laughed as well. he was not so great a fool as to trust varys any further than he had to - but the eunuch already knew enough about shae to get her well and thoroughly hanged. you will bring shae to me through the walls, hidden from all these eyes. as you have done before. varys wrung his hands. oh, my lord, nothing would please me more, but... king maegor wanted no rats in his own walls, if you take my meaning. he did require a means of secret egress, should he ever be trapped by his enemies, but that door does not connect with any other passages. i can steal your shae away from lady lollys for a time, to be sure, but i have no way to bring her to your bedchamber without us being seen. then bring her somewhere else. but where? there is no safe place. there is. tyrion grinned. here. it's time to put that rock-hard bed of yours to better use, i think. the eunuch's mouth opened. then he giggled. lollys tires easily these days. she is great with child. i imagine she will be safely asleep by moonrise. tyrion hopped down from the chair. moonrise, then. see that you lay in some wine. and two clean cups. varys bowed, it shall be as my lord commands. the rest of the day seemed to creep by as slow as a worm in molasses. tyrion climbed to the castle library and tried to distract himself with beldecar's history of the rhoynish wars, but he could hardly see the elephants for imagining shae's smile. come the afternoon, he put the book aside and called for a bath. he scrubbed himself until the water grew cool, and then had pod even out his whiskers. his beard was a trial to him; a tangle of yellow, white, and black hairs, patchy and coarse, it was seldom less than unsightly, but it did serve to conceal some of his face, and that was all to the good. when he was as clean and pink and trimmed as he was like to get, tyrion looked over his wardrobe, and chose a pair of tight satin breeches in lannister crimson and his best doublet, the heavy black velvet with the lion's head studs. he would have donned his chain of golden hands as well, if his father hadn't stolen it while he lay dying. it was not until he was dressed that he realized the depths of his folly. seven hells, dwarf, did you lose all your sense along with your nose? anyone who sees you is going to wonder why you've put on your court clothes to visit the eunuch. cursing, tyrion stripped and dressed again, in simpler garb; black woolen breeches, an old white tunic, and a faded brown leather jerkin. it doesn't matter, he told himself as he waited for moonrise. whatever you wear, you're still a dwarf. you'll never be as tall as that knight on the steps, him with his long straight legs and hard stomach and wide manly shoulders. the moon was peeping over the castle wall when he told podrick payne that he was going to pay a call on varys. will you be long, my lord? the boy asked. oh, i hope so. with the red keep so crowded, tyrion could not hope to go unnoticed. ser balon swann stood guard on the door, and ser loras tyrell on the drawbridge. he stopped to exchange pleasantries with both of them. it was strange to see the knight of flowers all in white when before he had always been as colorful as a rainbow. how old are you, ser loras? tyrion asked him. seventeen, my lord. seventeen, and beautiful, and already a legend. half the girls in the seven kingdoms want to bed him, and all the boys want to be him. if you will pardon my asking, ser - why would anyone choose to join the kingsguard at seventeen? prince aemon the dragonknight took his vows at seventeen, ser loras said, and your brother jaime was younger still. i know their reasons. what are yours? the honor of serving beside such paragons as meryn trant and boros blount? he gave the boy a mocking grin. to guard the king's life, you surrender your own. you give up your lands and titles, give up hope of marriage, children... house tyrell continues through my brothers, ser loras said. it is not necessary for a third son to wed, or breed. not necessary, but some find it pleasant. what of love? when the sun has set, no candle can replace it. is that from a song? tyrion cocked his head, smiling. yes, you are seventeen, i see that now. ser loras tensed. do you mock me? a prickly lad. no. if i've given offense, forgive me. i had my own love once, and we had a song as well. i loved a maid as fair as summer, with sunlight in her hair. he bid ser loras a good evening and went on his way. near the kennels a group of men-at-arms were fighting a pair of dogs. tyrion stopped long enough to see the smaller dog tear half the face off the larger one, and earned a few coarse laughs by observing that the loser now resembled sandor clegane. then, hoping he had disarmed their suspicions, he proceeded to the north wall and down the short flight of steps to the eunuch's meager abode. the door opened as he was lifting his hand to knock. varys? tyrion slipped inside. are you there? a single candle lit the gloom, spicing the air with the scent of jasmine. my lord. a woman sidled into the light; plump, soft, matronly, with a round pink moon of a face and heavy dark curls. tyrion recoiled. is something amiss? she asked. varys, he realized with annoyance. for one horrid moment i thought you'd brought me lollys instead of shae. where is she? here, m'lord. she put her hands over his eyes from behind. can you guess what i'm wearing? nothing? oh, you're so smart, she pouted, snatching her hands away. how did you know? you're very beautiful in nothing. am i? she said. am i truly? oh yes. then shouldn't you be fucking me instead of talking? we need to rid ourselves of lady varys first. i am not the sort of dwarf who likes an audience. he's gone, shae said. tyrion turned to look. it was true. the eunuch had vanished, skirts and all. the hidden doors are here somewhere, they have to be. that was as much as he had time to think, before shae turned his head to kiss him. her mouth was wet and hungry, and she did not even seem to see his scar, or the raw scab where his nose had been. her skin was warm silk beneath his fingers. when his thumb brushed against her left nipple, it hardened at once. hurry, she urged, between kisses, as his fingers went to his laces, oh, hurry, hurry, i want you in me, in me, in me. he did not even have time to undress properly. shae pulled his cock out of his breeches, then pushed him down onto the floor and climbed atop him. she screamed as he pushed past her lips, and rode him wildly, moaning, my giant, my giant, my giant, every time she slammed down on him. tyrion was so eager that he exploded on the fifth stroke, but shae did not seem to mind. she smiled wickedly when she felt him spurting, and leaned forward to kiss the sweat from his brow. my giant of lannister, she murmured. stay inside me, please. i like to feel you there. so tyrion did not move, except to put his arms around her. it feels so good to hold her, and to be held, he thought. how can something this sweet be a crime worth hanging her for? shae, he said, sweetling, this must be our last time together. the danger is too great. if my lord father should find you... i like your scar. she traced it with her finger. it makes you look very fierce and strong. he laughed. very ugly, you mean. mtord will never be ugly in my eyes. she kissed the scab that covered the ragged stub of his nose. it's not my face that need concern you, it's my father -. he does not frighten me. will m'lord give me back my jewels and silks now? i asked varys if i could have them when you were hurt in the battle, but he wouldn't give them to me. what would have become of them if you'd died? i didn't die. here i am. i know. shae wriggled atop him, smiling. just where you belong. her mouth turned pouty. but how long must i go on with lollys, now that you're well? have you been listening? tyrion said. you can stay with lollys if you like, but it would be best if you left the city. i don't want to leave. you promised you'd move me into a manse again after the battle. her cunt gave him a little squeeze, and he started to stiffen again inside her. a lannister always pays his debts, you said. shae, gods be damned, stop that. listen to me. you have to go away. the city's full of tyrells just now, and i am closely watched. you don't understand the dangers. can i come to the king's wedding feast? lollys won't go. i told her no one's like to rape her in the king's own throne room, but she's so stupid. when shae rolled off, his cock slid out of her with a soft wet sound. symon says there's to be a singers' tourney, and tumblers, even a fools' joust. tyrion had almost forgotten about shae's thrice-damned singer. how is it you spoke to symon? i told lady tanda about him, and she hired him to play for lollys. the music calms her when the baby starts to kick. symon says there's to be a dancing bear at the feast, and wines from the arbor. i've never seen a bear dance. they do it worse than i do. it was the singer who concerned him, not the bear. one careless word in the wrong ear, and shae would hang. symon says there's to be seventy-seven courses and a hundred doves baked into a great pie, shae gushed. when the crust's opened, they'll all burst out and fly. after which they will roost in the rafters and rain down birdshit on the guests. tyrion had suffered such wedding pies before. the doves liked to shit on him especially, or so he had always suspected. couldn't i dress in my silks and velvets and go as a lady instead of a maidservant? no one would know i wasn't. everyone would know you weren't, thought tyrion. lady tanda might wonder where lollys's bedmaid found so many jewels. there's to be a thousand guests, symon says. she'd never even see me. i'd find a place in some dark comer below the salt, but whenever you got up to go to the privy i could slip out and meet you. she cupped his cock and stroked it gently. i won't wear any smallclothes under my gown, so m'lord won't even need to unlace me. her fingers teased him, up and down. or if he liked, i could do this for him. she took him in her mouth. tyrion was soon ready again. this time he lasted much longer. when he finished shae crawled back up him and curled up naked under his arm. you'll let me come, won't you? shae, he groaned, it is not safe. for a time she said nothing at all. tyrion tried to speak of other things, but he met a wall of sullen courtesy as icy and unyielding as the wall he'd once walked in the north. gods be good, he thought wearily as he watched the candle burn down and begin to gutter, how could i let this happen again, after tysha? am i as great a fool as my father thinks? gladly would he have given her the promise she wanted, and gladly walked her back to his own bedchamber on his arm to let her dress in the silks and velvets she loved so much. had the choice been his, she could have sat beside him at joffrey's wedding feast, and danced with all the bears she liked. but he could not see her hang. when the candle burned out, tyrion disentangled himself and lit another. then he made a round of the walls, tapping on each in turn, searching for the hidden door. shae sat with her legs drawn up and her arms wrapped around them, watching him. finally she said, they're under the bed. the secret steps. he looked at her, incredulous. the bed? the bed is solid stone. it weighs half a ton. there's a place where varys pushes, and it floats right up. i asked him how, and he said it was magic. yes. tyrion had to grin. a counterweight spell. shae stood. i should go back. sometimes the baby kicks and lollys wakes and calls for me. varys should return shortly. he's probably listening to every word we say. tyrion set the candle down. there was a wet spot on the front of his breeches but in the darkness it ought to go unnoticed. he told shae to dress and wait for the eunuch. i will, she promised. you are my lion, aren't you? my giant of lannister? i am, he said. and you're - - your whore. she laid a finger to his lips. i know. i'd be your lady, but i never can. else you'd take me to the feast. it doesn't matter. i like being a whore for you, tyrion. just keep me, my lion, and keep me safe. i shall, he promised. fool, fool, the voice inside him screamed. why did you say that? you came here to send her away! instead he kissed her once more. the walk back seemed long and lonely. podrick payne was asleep in his trundle bed at the foot of tyrion's, but he woke the boy. bronn, he said. ser bronn? pod rubbed the sleep from his eyes. oh. should i get him? my lord? why no, i woke you up so we could have a little chat about the way he dresses, said tyrion, but his sarcasm was wasted. pod only gaped at him in confusion until he threw up his hands and said, yes, get him. bring him. now. the lad dressed hurriedly and all but ran from the room. am i really so terrifying? tyrion wondered, as he changed into a bedrobe and poured himself some wine. he was on his third cup and half the night was gone before pod finally returned, with the sellsword knight in tow. i hope the boy had a damn good reason dragging me out of chataya's, bronn said as he seated himself. chataya's? tyrion said, annoyed. it's good to be a knight. no more looking for the cheaper brothels down the street. bronn grinned. now it's alayaya and marei in the same featherbed, with ser bronn in the middle. tyrion had to bite back his annoyance. bronn had as much right to bed alayaya as any other man, but still... i never touched her, much as i wanted to, but bronn could not know that. he should have kept his cock out of her. he dare not visit chataya's himself. if he did, cersei would see that his father heard of it, and'yaya would suffer more than a whipping. he'd sent the girl a necklace of silver and jade and a pair of matching bracelets by way of apology, but other than that... this is fruitless. there is a singer who calls himself symon silver tongue, tyrion said wearily, pushing his guilt aside. he plays for lady tanda's daughter sometimes. what of him? kill him, he might have said, but the man had done nothing but sing a few songs. and fill shae's sweet head with visions of doves and dancing bears. find him, he said instead. find him before someone else does. lord tywin's chain of hands made a golden glitter against the deep wine velvet of his tunic. the lords tyrell, redwyne, and rowan gathered round him as he entered. he greeted each in turn, spoke a quiet word to varys, kissed the high septon's ring and cersei's cheek, clasped the hand of grand maester pycelle, and seated himself in the king's place at the head of the long table, between his daughter and his brother. tyrion had claimed pycelle's old place at the foot, propped up by cushions so he could gaze down the length of the table. dispossessed, pycelle had moved up next to cersei, about as far from the dwarf as he could get without claiming the king's seat. the grand maester was a shambling skeleton, leaning heavily on a twisted cane and shaking as he walked, a few white hairs sprouting from his long chicken's neck in place of his once- luxuriant white beard. tyrion gazed at him without remorse. the others had to scramble for seats: lord mace tyrell, a heavy, robust man with curling brown hair and a spadeshaped beard well salted with white; paxter redwyne of the arbor, stoop- shouldered and thin, his bald head fringed by tufts of orange hair; mathis rowan, lord of goldengrove, clean-shaven, stout, and sweating; the high septon, a frail man with wispy white chin hair. too many strange faces, tyrion thought, too many new players. the game changed while i lay rotting in my bed, and no one will tell me the rules. oh, the lords had been courteous enough, though he could tell how uncomfortable it made them to look at him. that chain of yours, that was cunning, mace tyrell had said in a jolly tone, and lord redwyne nodded and said, quite so, quite so, my lord of highgarden speaks for all of us, and very cheerfully too. tell it to the people of this city, tyrion thought bitterly. tell it to the bloody singers, with their songs of renly's ghost. his uncle kevan had been the warmest, going so far as to kiss his cheek and say, lancel has told me how brave you were, tyrion. he speaks very highly of you. he'd better, or i'll have a few things to say of him. he made himself smile and say, my good cousin is too kind. his wound is healing, i trust? ser kevan frowned. one day he seems stronger, the next... it is worrisome. your sister often visits his sickbed, to lift his spirits and pray for him. but is she praying that he lives, or dies? cersei had made shameless use of their cousin, both in and out of bed; a little secret she no doubt hoped lancel would carry to his grave now that father was here and she no longer had need of him. would she go so far as to murder him, though? to look at her today, you would never suspect cersei was capable of such ruthlessness. she was all charm, flirting with lord tyrell as they spoke of joffrey's wedding feast, complimenting lord redwyne on the valor of his twins, softening gruff lord rowan with jests and smiles, making pious noises at the high septon. shall we begin with the wedding arrangements? she asked as lord tywin took his seat. no, their father said. with the war. varys. the eunuch smiled a silken smile. i have such delicious tidings for you all, my lords. yesterday at dawn our brave lord randyll caught robert glover outside duskendale and trapped him against the sea. losses were heavy on both sides, but in the end our loyal men prevailed. ser helman tallhart is reported dead, with a thousand others. robert glover leads the survivors back toward harrenhal in bloody disarray, little dreaming he will find valiant ser gregor and his stalwarts athwart his path. gods be praised! said paxter redwyne. a great victory for king joffrey! what did joffrey have to do with it? thought tyrion. and a terrible defeat for the north, certainly, observed littlefinger, yet one in which robb stark played no part. the young wolf remains unbeaten in the field. what do we know of stark's plans and movements? asked mathis rowan, ever blunt and to the point. he has run back to riverrun with his plunder, abandoning the castles he took in the west, announced lord tywin. our cousin ser daven is reforming the remnants of his late father's army at lannisport. when they are ready he shall join ser forley prester at the golden tooth. as soon as the stark boy starts north, ser forley and ser daven will descend on riverrun. you are certain lord stark means to go north? lord rowan asked. even with the ironmen at moat cailin? mace tyrell spoke up. is there anything as pointless as a king without a kingdom? no, it's plain, the boy must abandon the riverlands, join his forces to roose bolton's once more, and throw all his strength against moat cailin. that is what i would do. tyrion had to bite his tongue at that. robb stark had won more battles in a year than the lord of highgarden had in twenty. tyrell' s reputation rested on one indecisive victory over robert baratheon at ashford, in a battle largely won by lord tarly's van before the main host had even arrived. the siege of storm's end, where mace tyrell actually did hold the command, had dragged on a year to no result, and after the trident was fought, the lord of highgarden had meekly dipped his banners to eddard stark. i ought to write robb stark a stern letter, littlefinger was saying. i understand his man bolton is stabling goats in my high hall, it's really quite unconscionable. ser kevan lannister cleared his throat. as regards the starks... balon greyjoy, who now styles himself king of the isles and the north, has written to us offering terms of alliance. he ought to be offering fealty, snapped cersei. by what right does he call himself king? by right of conquest, lord tywin said. king balon has strangler's fingers round the neck. robb stark's heirs are dead, winterfell is fallen, and the ironmen hold moat cailin, deepwood motte, and most of the stony shore. king balon' s longships command the sunset sea, and are well placed to menace lannisport, fair isle, and even highgarden, should we provoke him. and if we accept this alliance? inquired lord mathis rowan. what terms does he propose? that we recognize his kingship and grant him everything north of the neck. lord redwyne laughed. what is there north of the neck that any sane man would want? if greyjoy will trade swords and sails for stone and snow, i say do it, and count ourselves lucky. truly, agreed mace tyrell. that's what i would do. let king balon finish the northmen whilst we finish stannis. lord tywin's face gave no hint as to his feelings. there is lysa arryn to deal with as well. jon arryn's widow, hoster tully's daughter, catelyn stark's sister... whose husband was conspiring with stannis baratheon at the time of his death. oh, said mace tyrell cheerfully, women have no stomach for war. let her be, i say, she's not like to trouble us. i agree, said redwyne. the lady lysa took no part in the fighting, nor has she committed any overt acts of treason. tyrion stirred. she did throw me in a cell and put me on trial for my life, he pointed out, with a certain amount of rancor. nor has she returned to king's landing to swear fealty to joff, as she was commanded. my lords, grant me the men, and i will sort out lysa arryn. he could think of nothing he would enjoy more, except perhaps strangling cersei. sometimes he still dreamed of the eyrie's sky cells, and woke drenched in cold sweat. mace tyrell's smile was jovial, but behind it tyrion sensed contempt. perhaps you'd best leave the fighting to fighters, said the lord of highgarden. better men than you have lost great armies in the mountains of the moon, or shattered them against the bloody gate. we know your worth, my lord, no need to tempt fate. tyrion pushed off his cushions, bristling, but his father spoke before he could lash back. i have other tasks in mind for tyrion. i believe lord petyr may hold the key to the eyrie. oh, i do, said littleflnger, i have it here between my legs. there was mischief in his grey- green eyes. my lords, with your leave, i propose to travel to the vale and there woo and win lady lysa arryn. once i am her consort, i shall deliver you the vale of arryn without a drop of blood being spilled. lord rowan looked doubtful. would lady lysa have you? she's had me a few times before, lord mathis, and voiced no complaints. bedding, said cersei, is not wedding. even a cow like lysa arryn might be able to grasp the difference. to be sure. it would not have been fitting for a daughter of riverrun to marry one so far below her. littleflnger spread his hands. now, though... a match between the lady of the eyrie and the lord of harrenhal is not so unthinkable, is it? tyrion noted the look that passed between paxter redwyne and mace tyrell. it might serve, lord rowan said, if you are certain that you can keep the woman loyal to the king's grace. my lords, pronounced the high septon, autumn is upon us, and all men of good heart are weary of war. if lord baelish can bring the vale back into the king's peace without more shedding of blood, the gods will surely bless him. but can he? asked lord redwyne. jon arryn's son is lord of the eyrie now. the lord robert. only a boy, said littleflnger. i will see that he grows to be joffrey's most loyal subject, and a fast friend to us all. tyrion studied the slender man with the pointed beard and irreverent grey-green eyes. lord of harrenhal an empty honor? bugger that, father. even if he never sets foot in the castle, the title makes this match possible, as he's known all along. we have no lack of foes, said ser kevan lannister. if the eyrie can be kept out of the war, all to the good. i am of a mind to see what lord petyr can accomplish. ser kevan was his brother's vanguard in council, tyrion knew from long experience; he never had a thought that lord tywin had not had first. it has all been settled beforehand, he concluded, and this discussion's no more than show. the sheep were bleating their agreement, unaware of how neatly they'd been shorn, so it fell to tyrion to object. how will the crown pay its debts without lord petyr? he is our wizard of coin, and we have no one to replace him. littlefinger smiled. my little friend is too kind. all i do is count coppers, as king robert used to say. any clever tradesman could do as well... and a lannister, blessed with the golden touch of casterly rock, will no doubt far surpass me. a lannister? tyrion had a bad feeling about this. lord tywin's gold-flecked eyes met his son's mismatched ones. you are admirably suited to the task, i believe. indeed! ser kevan said heartily. i've no doubt you'll make a splendid master of coin, tyrion. lord tywin turned back to littlefinger. if lysa arryn will take you for a husband and return to the king's peace, we shall restore the lord robert to the honor of warden of the east. how soon might you leave? on the morrow, if the winds permit. there's a braavosi galley standing out past the chain, taking on cargo by boat. the merling king. i'll see her captain about a berth. you will miss the king's wedding, said mace tyrell. petyr baelish gave a shrug. tides and brides wait on no man, my lord. once the autumn storms begin the voyage will be much more hazardous. drowning would definitely diminish my charms as a bridegroom. lord tyrell chuckled. true. best you do not linger. may the gods speed you on your way, the high septon said. all king's landing shall pray for your success. lord redwyne pinched at his nose. may we return to the matter of the greyjoy alliance? in my view, there is much to be said for it. greyjoy' s longships will augment my own fleet and give us sufficient strength at sea to assault dragonstone and end stannis baratheon's pretensions. king balon's longships are occupied for the nonce, lord tywin said politely, as are we. greyjoy demands half the kingdom as the price of alliance, but what will he do to earn it? fight the starks? he is doing that already. why should we pay for what he has given us for free? the best thing to do about our lord of pyke is nothing, in my view. granted enough time, a better option may well present itself. one that does not require the king to give up half his kingdom. tyrion watched his father closely. there's something he's not saying. he remembered those important letters lord tywin had been writing, the night tyrion had demanded casterly rock. what was it he said? some battles are won with swords and spears, others with quills and ravens... he wondered who the better option was, and what sort of price he was demanding. perhaps we ought move on to the wedding, ser kevan said. the high septon spoke of the preparations being made at the great sept of baelor, and cersei detailed the plans she had been making for the feast. they would feed a thousand in the throne room, but many more outside in the yards. the outer and middle wards would be tented in silk, with tables of food and casks of ale for all those who could not be accommodated within the hall. your grace, said grand maester pycelle, in regard to the number of guests... we have had a raven from sunspear. three hundred dornishmen are riding toward king's landing as we speak, and hope to arrive before the wedding. how do they come? asked mace tyrell gruffly. they have not asked leave to cross my lands. his thick neck had turned a dark red, tyrion noted. dornishmen and highgardeners had never had great love for one another; over the centuries, they had fought border wars beyond count, and raided back and forth across mountains and marches even when at peace. the enmity had waned a bit after dome had become part of the seven kingdoms... until the dornish prince they called the red viper had crippled the young heir of highgarden in a tourney. this could be ticklish, the dwarf thought, waiting to see how his father would handle it. prince doran comes at my son's invitation, lord tywin said calmly, not only to join in our celebration, but to claim his seat on this council, and the justice robert denied him for the murder of his sister elia and her children. tyrion watched the faces of the lords tyrell, redwyne, and rowan, wondering if any of the three would be bold enough to say, but lord tywin, wasn't it you who presented the bodies to robert, all wrapped up in lannister cloaks? none of them did, but it was there on their faces all the same. redwyne does not give a fig, he thought, but rowan looks fit to gag. when the king is wed to your margaery and myrcella to prince trystane, we shall all be one great house, ser kevan reminded mace tyrell. the enmities of the past should remain there, would you not agree, my lord? this is my daughter's wedding. - and my grandson's, said lord tywin firmly. no place for old quarrels, surely? i have no quarrel with doran martell, insisted lord tyrell, though his tone was more than a little grudging. if he wishes to cross the reach in peace, he need only ask my leave. small chance of that, thought tyrion. he'll climb the boneway, turn east near summerhall, and come up the kingsroad. three hundred dornishmen need not trouble our plans, said cersei. we can feed the men-at- arms in the yard, squeeze some extra benches into the throne room for the lordlings and highborn knights, and find prince doran a place of honor on the dais. not by me, was the message tyrion saw in mace tyrell' s eyes, but the lord of highgarden made no reply but a curt nod. perhaps we can move to a more pleasant task, said lord tywin. the fruits of victory await division. what could be sweeter? said littlefinger, who had already swallowed his own fruit, harrenhal. each lord had his own demands; this castle and that village, tracts of lands, a small river, a forest, the wardship of certain minors left fatherless by the battle. fortunately, these fruits were plentiful, and there were orphans and castles for all. varys had lists. forty-seven lesser lordlings and six hundred nineteen knights had lost their lives beneath the fiery heart of stannis and his lord of light, along with several thousand common men-at-arms. traitors all, their heirs were disinherited, their lands and castles granted to those who had proved more loyal. ffighgarden reaped the richest harvest. tyrion eyed mace tyrell's broad belly and thought, he has a prodigious appetite, this one. tyre 11 demanded the lands and castles of lord alester florent, his own bannerman, who'd had the singular ill judgment to back first renly and then stannis. lord tywin was pleased to oblige. brightwater keep and all its lands and incomes were granted to lord tyrell's second son, ser garlan, transforming him into a great lord in the blink of an eye. his elder brother, of course, stood to inherit highgarden itself. lesser tracts were granted to lord rowan, and set aside for lord tarly, lady oakheart, lord hightower, and other worthies not present. lord redwyne asked only for thirty years' remission of the taxes that littlefinger and his wine factors had levied on certain of the arbor's finest vintages. when that was granted, he pronounced himself well satisfied and suggested that they send for a cask of arbor gold, to toast good king joffrey and his wise and benevolent hand. at that cersei lost patience. it's swords jo ff needs, not toasts, she snapped. his realm is still plagued with would-be usurpers and self-styled kings. but not for long, i think, said varys unctuously. a few more items remain, my lords. ser kevan consulted his papers. ser addam has found some crystals from the high septon's crown. it appears certain now that the thieves broke up the crystals and melted down the gold. our father above knows their guilt and will sit in judgment on them all, the high septon said piously. no doubt he will, said lord tywin. all the same, you must be crowned at the king's wedding. cersei, summon your goldsmiths, we must see to a replacement. he did not wait for her reply, but turned at once to varys. you have reports? the eunuch drew a parchment from his sleeve. a kraken has been seen off the fingers. he giggled. not a greyjoy, mind you, a true kraken. it attacked an ibbenese whaler and pulled it under. there is fighting on the stepstones, and a new war between tyrosh and lys seems likely. both hope to win myr as ally. sailors back from the jade sea report that a three-headed dragon has hatched in qarth, and is the wonder of that city - dragons and krakens do not interest me, regardless of the number of their heads, said lord tywin. have your whisperers perchance found some trace of my brother's son? alas, our beloved tyrek has quite vanished, the poor brave lad. varys sounded close to tears. tywin, ser kevan said, before lord tywin could vent his obvious displeasure, some of the gold cloaks who deserted during the battle have drifted back to barracks, thinking to take up duty once again. ser addam wishes to know what to do with them. they might have endangered jo ff with their cowardice, cersei said at once. i want them put to death. varys sighed. they have surely earned death, your grace, none can deny it. and yet, perhaps we might be wiser to send them to the night's watch. we have had disturbing messages from the wall of late. of wildlings astir... wildlings, krakens, and dragons. mace tyrell chuckled. why, is there anyone not stirring? lord tywin ignored that. the deserters serve us best as a lesson. break their knees with hammers. they will not run again. nor will any man who sees them begging in the streets. he glanced down the table to see if any of the other lords disagreed. tyrion remembered his own visit to the wall, and the crabs he'd shared with old lord mormont and his officers. he remembered the old bear's fears as well. perhaps we might break the knees of a few to make our point. those who killed ser jacelyn, say. the rest we can send to marsh. the watch is grievously under strength. if the wall should fail... ... the wildlings will flood the north, his father finished, and the starks and greyjoys will have another enemy to contend with. they no longer wish to be subject to the iron throne, it would seem, so by what right do they look to the iron throne for aid? king robb and king balon both claim the north. let them defend it, if they can. and if not, this mance rayder might even prove a useful ally. lord tywin looked to his brother. is there more? ser kevan shook his head. we are done. my lords, his grace king joffrey would no doubt wish to thank you all for your wisdom and good counsel. i should like private words with my children, said lord tywin as the others rose to leave. you as well, kevan. obediently, the other councillors made their farewells, varys the first to depart and tyrell and redwyne the last. when the chamber was empty but for the four lannisters, ser kevan closed the door. master of coin said tyrion in a thin strained voice. whose notion was that, pray? lord petyr's, his father said, but it serves us well to have the treasury in the hands of a lannister. you have asked for important work. do you fear you might be incapable of the task? no, said tyrion, i fear a trap. littlefinger is subtle and ambitious. i do not trust him. nor should you. he won highgarden to our side... cersei began. ... and sold you ned stark, i know. he will sell us just as quick. a coin is as dangerous as a sword in the wrong hands. his uncle kevan looked at him oddly. not to us, surely. the gold of casterly rock... ... is dug from the ground. littlefinger's gold is made from thin air, with a snap of his fingers. a more useful skill than any of yours, sweet brother, purred cersei, in a voice sweet with malice. littlefinger is a liar -  - and black as well, said the raven of the crow. lord tywin slammed his hand down on the table. enough! i will have no more of this unseemly squabbling. you are both lannisters, and will comport yourselves as such. ser kevan cleared his throat. i would sooner have petyr baelish ruling the eyrie than any of lady lysa's other suitors. yohn royce, lyn corbray, horton redfort... these are dangerous men, each in his own way. and proud. littlefinger may be clever, but he has neither high birth nor skill at arms. the lords of the vale will never accept such as their liege. he looked to his brother. when lord tywin nodded, he continued. and there is this - lord petyr continues to demonstrate his loyalty. only yesterday he brought us word of a tyrell plot to spirit sansa stark off to highgarden for a visit and there marry her to lord mace's eldest son, willas. littlefinger brought you word? tyrion leaned against the table. not our master of whisperers? how interesting. cersei looked at their uncle in disbelief. sansa is my hostage. she goes nowhere without my leave. leave you must perforce grant, should lord tyrell ask, their father pointed out. to refuse him would be tantamount to declaring that we did not trust him. he would take offense. let him. what do we care? bloody fool, thought tyrion. sweet sister, he explained patiently, offend tyrell and you offend redwyne, tarly, rowan, and hightower as well, and perhaps start them wondering whether robb stark might not be more accommodating of their desires. i will not have the rose and the direwolf in bed together, declared lord tywin. we must forestall him. how? asked cersei. by marriage. yours, to begin with. it came so suddenly that cersei could only stare for a moment. then her cheeks reddened as if she had been slapped. no. not again. i will not. your grace, said ser kevan, courteously, you are a young woman, still fair and fertile. surely you cannot wish to spend the rest of your days alone? and a new marriage would put to rest this talk of incest for good and all. so long as you remain unwed, you allow stannis to spread his disgusting slander, lord tywin told his daughter. you must have a new husband in your bed, to father children on you. three children is quite sufficient. i am queen of the seven kingdoms, not a brood mare! the queen regent! you are my daughter, and will do as i command. she stood. i will not sit here and listen to this - you will if you wish to have any voice in the choice of your next husband, lord tywin said calmly. when she hesitated, then sat, tyrion knew she was lost, despite her loud declaration of, i will not marry again! you will marry and you will breed. every child you birth makes stannis more a liar. their father's eyes seemed to pin her to her chair. mace tyrell, paxter redwyne, and doran martell are wed to younger women likely to outlive them. balon greyjoy's wife is elderly and failing, but such a match would commit us to an alliance with the iron islands, and i am still uncertain whether that would be our wisest course. no, cersei said from between white lips. no, no, no. tyrion could not quite suppress the grin that came to his lips at the thought of packing his sister off to pyke. just when i was about to give up praying, some sweet god gives me this. lord tywin went on. oberyn martell might suit, but the tyrells would take that very ill. so we must look to the sons. i assume you do not object to wedding a man younger than yourself? i object to wedding any - i have considered the redwyne twins, theon greyjoy, quentyn martell, and a number of others. but our alliance with highgarden was the sword that broke stannis. it should be tempered and made stronger. ser loras has taken the white and ser garlan is wed to one of the fossoways, but there remains the eldest son, the boy they scheme to wed to sansa stark. willas tyrell. tyrion was taking a wicked pleasure in cersei' s helpless fury. that would be the cripple, he said. their father chilled him with a look. willas is heir to highgarden, and by all reports a mild and courtly young man, fond of reading books and looking at the stars. he has a passion for breeding animals as well, and owns the finest hounds, hawks, and horses in the seven kingdoms. a perfect match, mused tyrion. cersei also has a passion for breeding. he pitied poor willas tyrell, and did not know whether he wanted to laugh at his sister or weep for her. the tyrell heir would be my choice, lord tywin concluded, but if you would prefer another, i will hear your reasons. that is so very kind of you, father, cersei said with icy courtesy. it is such a difficult choice you give me. who would i sooner take to bed, the old squid or the crippled dog boy? i shall need a few days to consider. do i have your leave to go? you are the queen, tyrion wanted to tell her. he ought to be begging leave of you. go, their father said. we shall talk again after you have composed yourself. remember your duty. cersei swept stiffly from the room, her rage plain to see. yet in the end she will do as father bid. she had proved that with robert. though there is jaime to consider. their brother had been much younger when cersei wed the first time; he might not acquiesce to a second marriage quite so easily. the unfortunate willas tyrell was like to contract a sudden fatal case of sword- through-bowels, which could rather sour the alliance between highgarden and casterly rock. i should say something, but what? pardon me, father, but it's our brother she wants to marry? tyrion. he gave a resigned smile. do i hear the herald summoning me to the lists? your whoring is a weakness in you, lord tywin said without preamble, but perhaps some share of the blame is mine. since you stand no taller than a boy, i have found it easy to forget that you are in truth a man grown, with all of a man's baser needs. it is past time you were wed. i was wed, or have you forgotten? tyrion's mouth twisted, and the noise emerged that was half laugh and half snarl. does the prospect of marriage amuse you? only imagining what a bugger-all handsome bridegroom i'll make. a wife might be the very thing he needed. if she brought him lands and a keep, it would give him a place in the world apart from joffrey's court... and away from cersei and their father. on the other hand, there was shae. she will not like this, for all she swears that she is content to be my whore. that was scarcely a point to sway his father, however, so tyrion squirmed higher in his seat and said, you mean to wed me to sansa stark. but won't the tyrells take the match as an affront, if they have designs on the girl? lord tyrell will not broach the matter of the stark girl until after joffrey's wedding. if sansa is wed before that, how can he take offense, when he gave us no hint of his intentions? quite so, said ser kevan, and any lingering resentments should be soothed by the offer of cersei for his willas. tyrion rubbed at the raw stub of his nose. the scar tissue itched abominably sometimes. his grace the royal pustule has made sansa's life a misery since the day her father died, and now that she is finally rid of joffrey you propose to marry her to me. that seems singularly cruel. even for you, father. why, do you plan to mistreat her? his father sounded more curious than concerned. the girl's happiness is not my purpose, nor should it be yours. our alliances in the south may be as solid as casterly rock, but there remains the north to win, and the key to the north is sansa stark. she is no more than a child. your sister swears she's flowered. if so, she is a woman, fit to be wed. you must needs take her maidenhead, so no man can say the marriage was not consummated. after that, if you prefer to wait a year or two before bedding her again, you would be within your rights as her husband. shae is all the woman i need just now, he thought, and sansa's a girl, no matter what you say. if your purpose here is to keep her from the tyrells, why not return her to her mother? perhaps that would convince robb stark to bend the knee. lord tywin' s look was scornful. send her to riverrun and her mother will match her with a blackwood or a mallister to shore up her son's alliances along the trident. send her north, and she will be wed to some manderly or umber before the moon turns. yet she is no less dangerous here at court, as this business with the tyrells should prove. she must marry a lannister, and soon. the man who weds sansa stark can claim winterfell in her name, his uncle kevan put in. had that not occurred to you? if you will not have the girl, we shall give her to one of your cousins, said his father. kevan, is lancel strong enough to wed, do you think? ser kevan hesitated. if we bring the girl to his bedside, he could say the words... but to consummate, no... i would suggest one of the twins, but the starks hold them both at riverrun. they have genna's boy tion as well, else he might serve. tyrion let them have their byplay; it was all for his benefit, he knew. sansa stark, he mused. soft-spoken sweet-smelling sansa, who loved silks, songs, chivalry and tall gallant knights with handsome faces. he felt as though he was back on the bridge of boats, the deck shifting beneath his feet. you asked me to reward you for your efforts in the battle, lord tywin reminded him forcefully. this is a chance for you, tyrion, the best you are ever likely to have. he drummed his fingers impatiently on the table. i once hoped to marry your brother to lysa tully, but aerys named jaime to his kingsguard before the arrangements were complete. when i suggested to lord hoster that lysa might be wed to you instead, he replied that he wanted a whole man for his daughter. so he wed her to jon arryn, who was old enough to be her grandfather. tyrion was more inclined to be thankful than angry, considering what lysa arryn had become. when i offered you to dome i was told that the suggestion was an insult, lord tywin continued. in later years i had similar answers from yohn royce and leyton hightower. i finally stooped so low as to suggest you might take the florent girl robert deflowered in his brother's wedding bed, but her father preferred to give her to one of his own household knights. if you will not have the stark girl, i shall find you another wife. somewhere in the realm there is doubtless some little lordling who'd gladly part with a daughter to win the friendship of casterly rock. lady tanda has offered lollys... tyrion gave a shudder of dismay. i'd sooner cut it off and feed it to the goats. then open your eyes. the stark girl is young, nubile, tractable, of the highest birth, and still a maid. she is not uncomely. why would you hesitate? why indeed? a quirk of mine. strange to say, i would prefer a wife who wants me in her bed. if you think your whores want you in their bed, you are an even greater fool than i suspected, said lord tywin. you disappoint me, tyrion. i had hoped this match would please you. yes, we all know how important my pleasure is to you, father. but there's more to this. the key to the north, you say? the greyjoys hold the north now, and king balon has a daughter. why sansa stark, and not her? he looked into his father's cool green eyes with their bright flecks of gold. lord tywin steepled his fingers beneath his chin. balon greyjoy thinks in terms of plunder, not rule. let him enjoy an autumn crown and suffer a northern winter. he will give his subjects no cause to love him. come spring, the northmen will have had a bellyful of krakens. when you bring eddard stark's grandson home to claim his birthright, lords and little folk alike will rise as one to place him on the high seat of his ancestors. you are capable of getting a woman with child, i hope? i believe i am, he said, bristling. i confess, i cannot prove it. though no one can say i have not tried. why, i plant my little seeds just as often as i can... in the gutters and the ditches, finished lord tywin, and in common ground where only bastard weeds take root. it is past time you kept your own garden. he rose to his feet. you shall never have casterly rock, i promise you. but wed sansa stark, and it is just possible that you might win winterfell. tyrion lannister, lord protector of winterfell. the prospect gave him a queer chill. very good, father, he said slowly, but there's a big ugly roach in your rushes. robb stark is as capable as i am, presumably, and sworn to marry one of those fertile freys. and once the young wolf sires a litter, any pups that sansa births are heirs to nothing. lord tywin was unconcerned. robb stark will father no children on his fertile frey, you have my word. there is a bit of news i have not yet seen fit to share with the council, though no doubt the good lords will hear it soon enough. the young wolf has taken gawen westerling's eldest daughter to wife. for a moment tyrion could not believe he'd heard his father right. he broke his sworn word? he said, incredulous. he threw away the freys for... - words failed him. a maid of sixteen years, named jeyne, said ser kevan. lord gawen once suggested her to me for willem or martyn, but i had to refuse him. gawen is a good man, but his wife is sybell spicer. he should never have wed her. the westerlings always did have more honor than sense. lady sybell' s grandfather was a trader in saffron and pepper, almost as lowborn as that smuggler stannis keeps. and the grandmother was some woman he'd brought back from the east. a frightening old crone, supposed to be a priestess. maegi, they called her. no one could pronounce her real name. half of lannisport used to go to her for cures and love potions and the like. he shrugged. she's long dead, to be sure. and jeyne seemed a sweet child, i'll grant you, though i only saw her once. but with such doubtful blood... having once married a whore, tyrion could not entirely share his uncle's horror at the thought of wedding a girl whose great grandfather sold cloves. even so... a sweet child, ser kevan had said, but many a poison was sweet as well. the westerlings were old blood, but they had more pride than power. it would not surprise him to learn that lady sybell had brought more wealth to the marriage than her highborn husband. the westerling mines had failed years ago, their best lands had been sold off or lost, and the crag was more ruin than stronghold. a romantic ruin, though, jutting up so brave above the sea. i am surprised, tyrion had to confess. i thought robb stark had better sense. he is a boy of sixteen, said lord tywin. at that age, sense weighs for little, against lust and love and honor. he forswore himself, shamed an ally, betrayed a solemn promise. where is the honor in that? ser kevan answered. he chose the girl's honor over his own. once he had deflowered her, he had no other course. it would have been kinder to leave her with a bastard in her belly, said tyrion bluntly. the westerlings stood to lose everything here; their lands, their castle, their very lives. a lannister always pays his debts. jeyne westerling is her mother's daughter, said lord tywin, and robb stark is his father's son. this westerling betrayal did not seem to have enraged his father as much as tyrion would have expected. lord tywin did not suffer disloyalty in his vassals. he had extinguished the proud reynes of castamere and the ancient tarbecks of tarbeck hall root and branch when he was still half a boy. the singers had even made a rather gloomy song of it. some years later, when lord farman of faircastle grew truculent, lord tywin sent an envoy bearing a lute instead of a letter. but once he'd heard the rains of castamere echoing through his hall, lord farman gave no further trouble. and if the song were not enough, the shattered castles of the reynes and tarbecks still stood as mute testimony to the fate that awaited those who chose to scorn the power of casterly rock. the crag is not so far from tarbeck hall and castamere, tyrion pointed out. you'd think the westerlings might have ridden past and seen the lesson there. mayhaps they have, lord tywin said. they are well aware of castamere, i promise you. could the westerlings and spicers be such great fools as to believe the wolf can defeat the lion? every once in a very long while, lord tywin lannister would actually threaten to smile; he never did, but the threat alone was terrible to behold. the greatest fools are ofttimes more clever than the men who laugh at them, he said, and then, you will marry sansa stark, tyrion. and soon. nothing remained beyond the king's gate but mud and ashes and bits of burned bone, yet already there were people living in the shadow of the city walls, and others selling fish from barrows and barrels. tyrion felt their eyes on him as he rode past; chilly eyes, angry and unsympathetic. no one dared speak to him, or try to bar his way; not with bronn beside him in oiled black mail. if i were alone, though, they would pull me down and smash my face in with a cobblestone, as they did for preston greenfield. they come back quicker than the rats, he complained. we burned them out once, you'd think they'd take that as a lesson. give me a few dozen gold cloaks and i'll kill them all, said bronn. once they're dead they don't come back. no, but others come in their places. leave them be... but if they start throwing up hovels against the wall again, pull them down at once. the war's not done yet, no matter what these fools may think. he spied the mud gate up ahead. i have seen enough for now. we'll return on the morrow with the guild masters to go over their plans. he sighed. well, i burned most of this, i suppose it's only just that i rebuild it. that task was to have been his uncle's, but solid, steady, tireless ser kevan lannister had not been himself since the raven had come from riverrun with word of his son's murder. willem's twin martyn had been taken captive by robb stark as well, and their elder brother lancel was still abed, beset by an ulcerating wound that would not heal. with one son dead and two more in mortal danger, ser kevan was consumed by grief and fear. lord tywin had always relied on his brother, but now he had no choice but to turn again to his dwarf son. the cost of rebuilding was going to be ruinous, but there was no help for that. king's landing was the realm's principal harbor, rivaled only by oldtown. the river had to be reopened, and the sooner the better. and where am i going to find the bloody coin? it was almost enough to make him miss littlefinger, who had sailed north a fortnight past. while he beds lysa arryn and rules the vale beside her, i get to clean up the mess he left behind him. though at least his father was giving him significant work to do. he won't name me heir to casterly rock, but he'll make use of me wherever he can, tyrion thought, as a captain of gold cloaks waved them through the mud gate. the three whores still dominated the market square inside the gate, but they stood idle now, and the boulders and barrels of pitch had all been trundled away. there were children climbing the towering wooden structures, swarming up like monkeys in roughspun to perch on the throwing arms and hoot at each other. remind me to tell ser addam to post some gold cloaks here, tyrion told bronn as they rode between two of the trebuchets. some fool boy's like to fall off and break his back. there was a shout from above, and a clod of manure exploded on the ground a foot in front of them. tyrion's mare reared and almost threw him. on second thoughts, he said when he had the horse in hand, let the poxy brats splatter on the cobbles like overripe melons. he was in a black mood, and not just because a few street urchins wanted to pelt him with dung. his marriage was a daily agony. sansa stark remained a maiden, and half the castle seemed to know it. when they had saddled up this morning, he'd heard two of the stableboys sniggering behind his back. he could almost imagine that the horses were sniggering as well. he'd risked his skin to avoid the bedding ritual, hoping to preserve the privacy of his bedchamber, but that hope had been dashed quick enough. either sansa had been stupid enough to confide in one of her bedmaids, every one of whom was a spy for cersei, or varys and his little birds were to blame. what difference did it make? they were laughing at him all the same. the only person in the red keep who didn't seem to find his marriage a source of amusement was his lady wife. sansa' s misery was deepening every day. tyrion would gladly have broken through her courtesy to give her what solace he might, but it was no good. no words would ever make him fair in her eyes. or any less a lannister. this was the wife they had given him, for all the rest of his life, and she hated him. and their nights together in the great bed were another source of torment. he could no longer bear to sleep naked, as had been his custom. his wife was too well trained ever to say an unkind word, but the revulsion in her eyes whenever she looked on his body was more than he could bear. tyrion had commanded sansa to wear a sleeping shift as well. i want her, he realized. i want winterfell, yes, but i want her as well, child or woman or whatever she is. i want to comfort her. i want to hear her laugh. i want her to come to me willingly, to bring me her joys and her sorrows and her lust. his mouth twisted in a bitter smile. yes, and i want to be tall as jaime and as strong as ser gregor the mountain too, for all the bloody good it does. unbidden, his thoughts went to shae. tyrion had not wanted her to hear the news from any lips but his own, so he had commanded varys to bring her to him the night before his wedding. they met again in the eunuch's chambers, and when shae began to undo the laces of his jerkin, he'd caught her by the wrist and pushed her away. wait, he said, there is something you must hear. on the morrow i am to be wed... ... to sansa stark. i know. he was speechless for an instant. even sansa did not know, not then. how could you know? did varys tell you? some page was telling ser tallad about it when i took lollys to the sept. he had it from this serving girl who heard ser kevan talking to your father. she wriggled free of his grasp and pulled her dress up over her head. as ever, she was naked underneath. i don't care. she's only a little girl. you'll give her a big belly and come back to me. some part of him had hoped for less indifference. had hoped, he jeered bitterly, but now you know better, dwarf. shae is all the love you're ever like to have. muddy way was crowded, but soldiers and townfolk alike made way for the imp and his escort. hollow-eyed children swarmed underfoot, some looking up in silent appeal whilst others begged noisily. tyrion pulled a big fistful of coppers from his purse and tossed them in the air, and the children went running for them, shoving and shouting. the lucky ones might be able to buy a heel of stale bread tonight. he had never seen markets so crowded, and for all the food the tyrells were bringing in, prices remained shockingly high. six coppers for a melon, a silver stag for a bushel of corn, a dragon for a side of beef or six skinny piglets. yet there seemed no lack of buyers. gaunt men and haggard women crowded around every wagon and stall, while others even more ragged looked on sullenly from the mouths of alleys. this way, bronn said, when they reached the foot of the hook. if you still mean to... ? i do. the riverfront had made a convenient excuse, but tyrion had another purpose today. it was not a task he relished, but it must be done. they turned away from aegon's high hill, into the maze of smaller streets that clustered around the foot of visenya's. bronn led the way. once or twice tyrion glanced back over his shoulder to see if they were being followed, but there was nothing to be seen except the usual rabble: a carter beating his horse, an old woman throwing nightsoil from her window, two little boys fighting with sticks, three gold cloaks escorting a captive... they all looked innocent, but any one of them could be his undoing. varys had informers everywhere. they turned at a corner, and again at the next, and rode slowly through a crowd of women at a well. bronn led him along a curving wynd, through an alley, under a broken archway. they cut through the rubble where a house had burned and walked their horses up a shallow flight of stone steps. the buildings were close and poor. bronn halted at the mouth of a crooked alley, too narrow for two to ride abreast. there's two jags and then a dead end. the sink is in the cellar of the last building. tyrion swung down off his horse. see that no one enters or leaves till i return. this won't take long. his hand went into his cloak, to make certain the gold was still there in the hidden pocket. thirty dragons. a bloody fortune, for a man like him. he waddled up the alley quickly, anxious to be done with this. the wine sink was a dismal place, dark and damp, walls pale with niter, the ceiling so low that bronn would have had to duck to keep from hitting his head on the beams. tyrion lannister had no such problem. at this hour, the front room was empty but for a dead-eyed woman who sat on a stool behind a rough plank bar. she handed him a cup of sour wine and said, in the back. the back room was even darker. a flickering candle burned on a low table, beside a flagon of wine. the man behind it scarce looked a danger; a short man - though all men were tall to tyrion - with thinning brown hair, pink cheeks, and a little pot pushing at the bone buttons of his doeskin jerkin. in his soft hands he held a twelve-stringed woodharp more deadly than a longsword. tyrion sat across from him. symon silver tongue. the man inclined his head. he was bald on top. my lord hand, he said. you mistake me. my father is the king's hand. i am no longer even a finger, i fear. you shall rise again, i am sure. a man like you. my sweet lady shae tells me you are newlywed. would that you had sent for me earlier. i should have been honored to sing at your feast. the last thing my wife needs is more songs, said tyrion. as for shae, we both know she is no lady, and i would thank you never to speak her name aloud. as the hand commands, symon said. the last time tyrion had seen the man, a sharp word had been enough to set him sweating, but it seemed the singer had found some courage somewhere. most like in that flagon. or perhaps tyrion himself was to blame for this new boldness. i threatened him, but nothing ever came of the threat, so now he believes me toothless. he sighed. i am told you are a very gifted singer. you are most kind to say so, my lord. tyrion gave him a smile. i think it is time you brought your music to the free cities. they are great lovers of song in braavos and pentos and lys, and generous with those who please them. he took a sip of wine. it was foul stuff, but strong. a tour of all nine cities would be best. you wouldn't want to deny anyone the joy of hearing you sing. a year in each should suffice. he reached inside his cloak, to where the gold was hidden. with the port closed, you will need to go to duskendale to take ship, but my man bronn will find a horse for you, and i would be honored if you would let me pay your passage... but my lord, the man objected, you have never heard me sing. pray listen a moment. his fingers moved deftly over the strings of the woodharp, and soft music filled the cellar. symon began to sing. he rode through the streets of the city, down from his hill on high, o'er the wynds and the steps and the cobbles, he rode to a woman's sigh. for she was his secret treasure, she was his shame and his bliss. and a chain and a keep are nothing, compared to a woman's kiss. there's more, the man said as he broke off, oh, a good deal more. the refrain is especially nice, i think. for hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm... enough. tyrion slid his fingers from his cloak, empty. that's not a song i would care to hear again. ever. no? symon silver tongue put his harp aside and took a sip of wine. a pity. still, each man has his song, as my old master used to say when he was teaching me to play. others might like my tune better. the queen, perhaps. or your lord father. tyrion rubbed the scar over his nose, and said, my father has no time for singers, and my sister is not as generous as one might think. a wise man could earn more from silence than from song. he could not put it much plainer than that. symon seemed to take his meaning quick enough. you will find my price modest, my lord. that's good to know. this would not be a matter of thirty golden dragons, tyrion feared. tell me. at king joffrey's wedding feast, the man said, there is to be a tournament of singers. and jugglers, and jesters, and dancing bears. only one dancing bear, my lord, said symon, who had plainly attended cersei's arrangements with far more interest than tyrion had, but seven singers. galyeon of cuy, bethany fair- fingers, aemon costayne, alaric of eysen, hamish the harper, collio quaynis, and orland of oldtown will compete for a gilded lute with silver strings... yet unaccountably, no invitation has been forthcoming for one who is master of them all. let me guess. symon silver tongue? symon smiled modestly. i am prepared to prove the truth of my boast before king and court. hamish is old, and oft forgets what he is singing. and collio, with that absurd tyroshi accent! if you understand one word in three, count yourself fortunate. my sweet sister has arranged the feast. even if i could secure you this invitation, it might look queer. seven kingdoms, seven vows, seven challenges, seventy-seven dishes... but eight singers? what would the high septon think? you did not strike me as a pious man, my lord. piety is not the point. certain forms must be observed. symon took a sip of wine. still... a singer's life is not without peril. we ply our trade in alehouses and wine sinks, before unruly drunkards. if one of your sister's seven should suffer some mishap, i hope you might consider me to fill his place. he smiled slyly, inordinately pleased with himself . six singers would be as unfortunate as eight, to be sure. i will inquire after the health of cersei's seven. if any of them should be indisposed, my man bronn will find you. very good, my lord. symon might have left it at that, but flushed with triumph, he added, i shall sing the night of king joffrey's wedding. should it happen that i am called to court, why, i will want to offer the king my very best compositions, songs i have sung a thousand times that are certain to please. if i should find myself singing in some dreary winesink, though... well, that would be an apt occasion to try my new song. for hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm. that will not be necessary, said tyrion. you have my word as a lannister, bronn will call upon you soon. very good, my lord. the balding kettle-bellied singer took up his woodharp again. bronn was waiting with the horses at the mouth of the alley. he helped tyrion into his saddle. when do i take the man to duskendale? you don't. tyrion turned his horse. give him three days, then inform him that hamish the harper has broken his arm. tell him that his clothes will never serve for court, so he must be fitted for new garb at once. he'll come with you quick enough. he grimaced. you may want his tongue, i understand it's made of silver. the rest of him should never be found. bronn grinned. there's a pot shop i know in flea bottom makes a savory bowl of brown. all kinds of meat in it, i hear. make certain i never eat there. tyrion spurred to a trot. he wanted a bath, and the hotter the better. even that modest pleasure was denied him, however; no sooner had he returned to his chambers than podrick payne informed him that he had been summoned to the tower of the hand. his lordship wants to see you. the hand. lord tywin. i recall who the hand is, pod, tyrion said. i lost my nose, not my wits. bronn laughed. don't bite the boy's head off now. why not? he never uses it. tyrion wondered what he'd done now. or more like, what i have failed to do. a summons from lord tywin always had teeth; his father never sent for him just to share a meal or a cup of wine, that was for certain. as he entered his lord father's solar a few moments later, he heard a voice saying, ...cherrywood for the scabbards, bound in red leather and ornamented with a row of lion's-head studs in pure gold. perhaps with garnets for the eyes... rubies, lord tywin said. garnets lack the fire. tyrion cleared his throat. my lord. you sent for me? his father glanced up. i did. come have a look at this. a bundle of oilcloth lay on the table between them, and lord tywin had a longsword in his hand. a wedding gift for joffrey, he told tyrion. the light streaming through the diamond-shaped panes of glass made the blade shimmer black and red as lord tywin turned it to inspect the edge, while the pommel and crossguard flamed gold. with this fool's jabber of stannis and his magic sword, it seemed to me that we had best give joffrey something extraordinary as well. a king should bear a kingly weapon. that's much too much sword for joff, tyrion said. he will grow into it. here, feel the weight of it. he offered the weapon hilt first. the sword was much lighter than he had expected. as he turned it in his hand he saw why. only one metal could be beaten so thin and still have strength enough to fight with, and there was no mistaking those ripples, the mark of steel that has been folded back on itself many thousands of times. valyrian steel? yes, lord tywin said, in a tone of deep satisfaction. at long last, father? valyrian steel blades were scarce and costly, yet thousands remained in the world, perhaps two hundred in the seven kingdoms alone. it had always irked his father that none belonged to house lannister. the old kings of the rock had owned such a weapon, but the greatsword brightroar had been lost when the second king tommen carried it back to valyria on his fool's quest. he had never returned; nor had uncle gery, the youngest and most reckless of his father's brothers, who had gone seeking after the lost sword some eight years past. thrice at least lord tywin had offered to buy valyrian longswords from impoverished lesser houses, but his advances had always been firmly rebuffed. the little lordlings would gladly part with their daughters should a lannister come asking, but they cherished their old family swords. tyrion wondered where the metal for this one had come from. a few master armorers could rework old valyrian steel, but the secrets of its making had been lost when the doom came to old valyria. the colors are strange, he commented as he turned the blade in the sunlight. most valyrian steel was a grey so dark it looked almost black, as was true here as well. but blended into the folds was a red as deep as the grey. the two colors lapped over one another without ever touching, each ripple distinct, like waves of night and blood upon some steely shore. how did you get this patterning? i've never seen anything like it. nor i, my lord, said the armorer. i confess, these colors were not what i intended, and i do not know that i could duplicate them. your lord father had asked for the crimson of your house, and it was that color i set out to infuse into the metal. but valyrian steel is stubborn. these old swords remember, it is said, and they do not change easily. i worked half a hundred spells and brightened the red time and time again, but always the color would darken, as if the blade was drinking the sun from it. and some folds would not take the red at all, as you can see. if my lords of lannister are displeased, i will of course try again, as many times as you should require, but - no need, lord tywin said. this will serve. a crimson sword might flash prettily in the sun, but if truth be told i like these colors better, said tyrion. they have an ominous beauty... and they make this blade unique. there is no other sword like it in all the world, i should think. there is one. the armorer bent over the table and unfolded the bundle of oilcloth, to reveal a second longsword. tyrion put down joffrey's sword and took up the other. if not twins, the two were at least close cousins. this one was thicker and heavier, a half-inch wider and three inches longer, but they shared the same fine clean lines and the same distinctive color, the ripples of blood and night. three fullers, deeply incised, ran down the second blade from hilt to point; the king's sword had only two. joff s hilt was a good deal more ornate, the arms of its crossguard done as lions' paws with ruby claws unsheathed, but both swords had grips of finely tooled red leather and gold lions' heads for pommels. magnificent. even in hands as unskilled as tyrion's, the blade felt alive. i have never felt better balance. it is meant for my son. no need to ask which son. tyrion placed jaime's sword back on the table beside joffrey's, wondering if robb stark would let his brother live long enough to wield it. our father must surely think so, else why have this blade forged? you have done good work, master mott, lord tywin told the armorer. my steward will see to your payment. and remember, rubies for the scabbards. i shall, my lord. you are most generous. the man folded the swords up in the oilcloth, tucked the bundle under one arm, and went to his knee. it is an honor to serve the king's hand. i shall deliver the swords the day before the wedding. see that you do. when the guards had seen the armorer out, tyrion clambered up onto a chair. so... a sword for joff, a sword for jaime, and not even a dagger for the dwarf, is that the way of it, father? the steel was sufficient for two blades, not three. if you have need of a dagger, take one from the armory. robert left a hundred when he died. gerion gave him a gilded dagger with an ivory grip and a sapphire pommel for a wedding gift, and half the envoys who came to court tried to curry favor by presenting his grace with jewel-encrusted knives and silver inlay swords. tyrion smiled. they'd have pleased him more if they'd presented him with their daughters. no doubt. the only blade he ever used was the hunting knife he had from jon arryn, when he was a boy. lord tywin waved a hand, dismissing king robert and all his knives. what did you find at the riverfront? mud, said tyrion, and a few dead things no one's bothered to bury. before we can open the port again, the blackwater's going to have to be dredged, the sunken ships broken up or raised. three-quarters of the quays need repair, and some may have to be torn down and rebuilt. the entire fish market is gone, and both the river gate and the king's gate are splintered from the battering stannis gave them and should be replaced. i shudder to think of the cost. if you do shit gold, father, find a privy and get busy, he wanted to say, but he knew better. you will find whatever gold is required. will i? where? the treasury is empty, i've told you that. we're not done paying the alchemists for all that wildfire, or the smiths for my chain, and cersei's pledged the crown to pay half the costs of joffs wedding - seventy-seven bloody courses, a thousand guests, a pie full of doves, singers, jugglers... extravagance has its uses. we must demonstrate the power and wealth of casterly rock for all the realm to see. then perhaps casterly rock should pay. why? i have seen littlefinger's accounts. crown incomes are ten times higher than they were under aerys. as are the crown's expenses. robert was as generous with his coin as he was with his cock. littlefinger borrowed heavily. from you, amongst others. yes, the incomes are considerable, but they are barely sufficient to cover the usury on littlefinger's loans. will you forgive the throne's debt to house lannister? don't be absurd. then perhaps seven courses would suffice. three hundred guests instead of a thousand. i understand that a marriage can be just as binding without a dancing bear. the tyrells would think us niggardly. i will have the wedding and the waterfront. if you cannot pay for them, say so, and i shall find a master of coin who can. the disgrace of being dismissed after so short a time was not something tyrion cared to suffer. i will find your money. you will, his father promised, and while you are about it, see if you can find your wife's bed as well. so the talk has reached even him. i have, thank you. it's that piece of furniture between the window and the hearth, with the velvet canopy and the mattress stuffed with goose down. i am pleased you know of it. now perhaps you ought to try and know the woman who shares it with you. woman? child, you mean. has a spider been whispering in your ear, or do i have my sweet sister to thank? considering the things that went on beneath cersei's blankets, you would think she'd have the decency to keep her nose out of his. tell me, why is it that all of sansa's maids are women in cersei's service? i am sick of being spied upon in my own chambers. if you mislike your wife's servants, dismiss them and hire ones more to your liking. that is your right. it is your wife's maidenhood that concerns me, not her maids. this... delicacy puzzles me. you seem to have no difficulty bedding whores. is the stark girl made differently? why do you take so much bloody interest in where i put my cock? tyrion demanded. sansa is too young. she is old enough to be lady of winterfell once her brother is dead. claim her maidenhood and you will be one step closer to claiming the north. get her with child, and the prize is all but won. do i need to remind you that a marriage that has not been consummated can be set aside? by the high septon or a council of faith. our present high septon is a trained seal who barks prettily on command. moon boy is more like to annul my marriage than he is. perhaps i should have married sansa stark to moon boy. he might have known what to do with her. tyrion's hands clenched on the arms of his chair. i have heard all i mean to hear on the subject of my wife's maidenhead. but so long as we are discussing marriage, why is it that i hear nothing of my sister's impending nuptials? as i recall - lord tywin cut him off. mace tyrell has refused my offer to marry cersei to his heir willas. refused our sweet cersei? that put tyrion in a much better mood. when i first broached the match to him, lord tyrell seemed well enough disposed, his father said. a day later, all was changed. the old woman's work. she hectors her son unmercifully. varys claims she told him that your sister was too old and too used for this precious one-legged grandson of hers. cersei must have loved that. he laughed. lord tywin gave him a chilly look. she does not know. nor will she. it is better for all of us if the offer was never made. see that you remember that, tyrion. the offer was never made. what offer? tyrion rather suspected that lord tyrell might come to regret this rebuff. your sister will be wed. the question is, to whom? i have several thoughts - before he could get to them, there was a rap at the door and a guardsman stuck in his head to announce grand maester pycelle. he may enter, said lord tywin. pycelle tottered in on a cane, and stopped long enough to give tyrion a look that would curdle milk. his once-magnificent white beard, which someone had unaccountably shaved off, was growing back sparse and wispy, leaving him with unsightly pink wattles to dangle beneath his neck. my lord hand, the old man said, bowing as deeply as he could without falling, there has been another bird from castle black. mayhaps we could consult privily? there's no need for that. lord tywin waved grand maester pycelle to a seat. tyrion may stay. oooooh, may i? he rubbed his nose, and waited. pycelle cleared his throat, which involved a deal of coughing and hawking. the letter is from the same bowen marsh who sent the last. the castellan. he writes that lord mormont has sent word of wildlings moving south in vast numbers. the lands beyond the wall cannot support vast numbers, said lord tywin firmly. this warning is not new. this last is, my lord. mormont sent a bird from the haunted forest, to report that he was under attack. more ravens have returned since, but none with letters. this bowen marsh fears lord mormont slain, with all his strength. tyrion had rather liked old jeor mormont, with his gruff manner and talking bird. is this certain? he asked. it is not, pycelle admitted, but none of mormont's men have returned as yet. marsh fears the wildlings have killed them, and that the wall itself may be attacked next. he fumbled in his robe and found the paper. here is his letter, my lord, a plea to all five kings. he wants men, as many men as we can send him. five kings? his father was annoyed. there is one king in westeros. those fools in black might try and remember that if they wish his grace to heed them. when you reply, tell him that renly is dead and the others are traitors and pretenders. no doubt they will be glad to learn it. the wall is a world apart, and news oft reaches them late. pycelle bobbed his head up and down. what shall i tell marsh concerning the men he begs for? shall we convene the council... there is no need. the night's watch is a pack of thieves, killers, and baseborn churls, but it occurs to me that they could prove otherwise, given proper discipline. if mormont is indeed dead, the black brothers must choose a new lord commander. pycelle gave tyrion a sly glance. an excellent thought, my lord. i know the very man. janos slynt. tyrion liked that notion not at all. the black brothers choose their own commander, he reminded them. lord slynt is new to the wall. i know, i sent him there. why should they pick him over a dozen more senior men? because, his father said, in a tone that suggested tyrion was quite the simpleton, if they do not vote as they are told, their wall will melt before it sees another man. yes, that would work. tyrion hitched forward. janos slynt is the wrong man, father. we'd do better with the commander of the shadow tower. or eastwatch-by-the-sea. the commander of the shadow tower is a mallister of seagard. eastwatch is held by an ironman. neither would serve his purposes, lord tywin's tone said clear enough. janos slynt is a butcher's son, tyrion reminded his father forcefully. you yourself told me i recall what i told you. castle black is not harrenhal, however. the night's watch is not the king's council. there is a tool for every task, and a task for every tool. tyrion's anger flashed. lord janos is a hollow suit of armor who will sell himself to the highest bidder. i count that a point in his favor. who is like to bid higher than us? he turned to pycelle. send a raven. write that king joffrey was deeply saddened to hear of lord commander mormont's death, but regrets that he can spare no men just now, whilst so many rebels and usurpers remain in the field. suggest that matters might be quite different once the throne is secure... provided the king has full confidence in the leadership of the watch. in closing, ask marsh to pass along his grace's fondest regards to his faithful friend and servant... lord janos slynt. yes, my lord. pycelle bobbed his withered head once more. i shall write as the hand commands. with great pleasure. i should have trimmed his head, not his beard, tyrion reflected. and slynt should have gone for a swim with his dear friend allar deem. at least he had not made the same foolish mistake with symon silver tongue. see there, father? he wanted to shout. see how fast i learn my lessons? a horse whickered impatiently behind him, from amidst the ranks of gold cloaks drawn up across the road. tyrion could hear lord gyles coughing as well. he had not asked for gyles, no more than he'd asked for ser addam. or jalabhar xho or any of the rest, but his lord father felt doran martell might take it ill if only a dwarf came out to escort him across the blackwater. joffrey should have met the dornishmen himself, he reflected as he sat waiting, but he would have mucked it up, no doubt. of late the king had been repeating little jests about the dornish that he'd picked up from mace tyrell's men-at-arms. how many dornishmen does it take to shoe a horse? nine. one to do the shoeing, and eight to lift the horse up. somehow tyrion did not think doran martell would find that amusing. he could see their banners flying as the riders emerged from the green of the living wood in a long dusty column. from here to the river, only bare black trees remained, a legacy of his battle. too many banners, he thought sourly, as he watched the ashes kick up under the hooves of the approaching horses, as they had beneath the hooves of the tyrell van as it smashed stannis in the flank. martell's brought half the lords of dome, by the look of it. he tried to think of some good that might come of that, and failed. how many banners do you count? he asked bronn. the sellsword knight shaded his eyes. eight... no, nine. tyrion turned in his saddle. pod, come up here. describe the arms you see, and tell me which houses they represent. podrick payne edged his gelding closer. he was carrying the royal standard, joffrey's great stag-and-lion, and struggling with its weight. bronn bore tyrion's own banner, the lion of lannister gold on crimson. he's getting taller, tyrion realized as pod stood in his stirrups for a better look. he'll soon tower over me like all the rest. the lad had been making a diligent study of dornish heraldry, at tyrion's command, but as ever he was nervous. i can't see. the wind is flapping them. bronn, tell the boy what you see. bronn looked very much the knight today, in his new doublet and cloak, the flaming chain across his chest. a red sun on orange, he called, with a spear through its back. martell, podrick payne said at once, visibly relieved. house martell of sunspear, my lord. the prince of dome. my horse would have known that one, said tyrion dryly. give him another, bronn. there's a purple flag with yellow balls. lemons? pod said hopefully. a purple field strewn with lemons? for house dalt? of, of lemonwood. might be. next's a big black bird on yellow. something pink or white in its claws, hard to say with the banner flapping. the vulture of blackmont grasps a baby in its talons, said pod. house blackmont of blackmont, ser. bronn laughed. reading books again? books will ruin your sword eye, boy. i see a skull too. a black banner. the crowned skull of house manwoody, bone and gold on black. pod sounded more confident with every correct answer. the manwoodys of kingsgrave. three black spiders? they're scorpions, ser. house qorgyle of sandstone, three scorpions black on red. red and yellow, a jagged line between. the flames of hellholt. house uller. tyrion was impressed. the boy's not half stupid, once he gets his tongue untied. go on, pod, he urged. if you get them all, i'll make you a gift. a pie with red and black slices, said bronn. there's a gold hand in the middle. house allyrion of godsgrace. a red chicken eating a snake, looks like. the gargalens of salt shore. a cockatrice. ser. pardon. not a chicken. red, with a black snake in its beak. very good! exclaimed tyrion. one more, lad. bronn scanned the ranks of the approaching dornishmen. the last's a golden feather on green checks. a golden quill, ser. jordayne of the tor. tyrion laughed. nine, and well done. i could not have named them all myself. that was a lie, but it would give the boy some pride, and that he badly needed. martell brings some formidable companions, it would seem. not one of the houses pod had named was small or insignificant. nine of the greatest lords of dome were coming up the kingsroad, them or their heirs, and somehow tyrion did not think they had come all this way just to see the dancing bear. there was a message here. and not one i like. he wondered if it had been a mistake to ship myrcella down to sunspear. my lord, pod said, a little timidly, there's no litter. tyrion turned his head sharply. the boy was right. doran martell always travels in a litter, the boy said. a carved litter with silk hangings, and suns on the drapes. tyrion had heard the same talk. prince doran was past fifty, and gouty. he may have wanted to make faster time, he told himself. he may have feared his litter would make too tempting a target for brigands, or that it would prove too cumbersome in the high passes of the boneway. perhaps his gout is better. so why did he have such a bad feeling about this? this waiting was intolerable. banners forward, he snapped. we'll meet them. he kicked his horse. bronn and pod followed, one to either side. when the dornishmen saw them coming, they spurred their own mounts, banners rippling as they rode. from their ornate saddles were slung the round metal shields they favored, and many carried bundles of short throwing spears, or the double-curved dornish bows they used so well from horseback. there were three sorts of dornishmen, the first king daeron had observed. there were the salty dornishmen who lived along the coasts, the sandy dornishmen of the deserts and long river valleys, and the stony dornishmen who made their fastnesses in the passes and heights of the red mountains. the salty dornishmen had the most rhoynish blood, the stony dornishmen the least. all three sorts seemed well represented in doran's retinue. the salty dornishmen were lithe and dark, with smooth olive skin and long black hair streaming in the wind. the sandy dornishmen were even darker, their faces burned brown by the hot dornish sun. they wound long bright scarfs around their helms to ward off sunstroke. the stony dornishmen were biggest and fairest, sons of the andals and the first men, brownhaired or blond, with faces that freckled or burned in the sun instead of browning. the lords wore silk and satin robes with jeweled belts and flowing sleeves. their armor was heavily enameled and inlaid with burnished copper, shining silver, and soft red gold. they came astride red horses and golden ones and a few as pale as snow, all slim and swift, with long necks and narrow beautiful heads. the fabled sand steeds of dome were smaller than proper warhorses and could not bear such weight of armor, but it was said that they could run for a day and night and another day, and never tire. the dornish leader forked a stallion black as sin with a mane and tail the color of fire. he sat his saddle as if he'd been born there, tall, slim, graceful. a cloak of pale red silk fluttered from his shoulders, and his shirt was armored with overlapping rows of copper disks that glittered like a thousand bright new pennies as he rode. his high gilded helm displayed a copper sun on its brow, and the round shield slung behind him bore the sun-and-spear of house martell on its polished metal surface. a martell sun, but ten years too young, tyrion thought as he reined up, too fit as well, and far too fierce. he knew what he must deal with by then. how many dornishmen does it take to start a war? he asked himself. only one. yet he had no choice but to smile. well met, my lords. we had word of your approach, and his grace king joffrey bid me ride out to welcome you in his name. my lord father the king's hand sends his greetings as well. he feigned an amiable confusion. which of you is prince doran? my brother's health requires he remain at sunspear. the princeling removed his helm. beneath, his face was lined and saturnine, with thin arched brows above large eyes as black and shiny as pools of coal oil. only a few streaks of silver marred the lustrous black hair that receded from his brow in a widow's peak as sharply pointed as his nose. a salty dornishmen for certain. prince doran has sent me to join king joffrey's council in his stead, as it please his grace. his grace will be most honored to have the counsel of a warrior as renowned as prince oberyn of dome, said tyrion, thinking, this will mean blood in the gutters. and your noble companions are most welcome as well. permit me to acquaint you with them, my lord of lannister. ser deziel dalt, of lemonwood. lord tremond gargalen. lord harmen uller and his brother ser ulwyck. ser ryon allyrion and his natural son ser daemon sand, the bastard of godsgrace. lord dagos manwoody, his brother ser myles, his sons mors and dickon. ser arron qorgyle. and never let it be thought that i would neglect the ladies. myria jordayne, heir to the tor. lady larra blackmont, her daughter jynessa, her son perros. he raised a slender hand toward a black-haired woman to the rear, beckoning her forward. and this is ellaria sand, mine own paramour. tyrion swallowed a groan. his paramour, and bastard-born, cersei will pitch a holy fit if he wants her at the wedding. if she consigned the woman to some dark comer below the salt, his sister would risk the red viper's wrath. seat her beside him at the high table, and every other lady on the dais was like to take offense. did prince doran mean to provoke a quarrel? prince oberyn wheeled his horse about to face his fellow dornishmen. ellaria, lords and ladies, sers, see how well king joffrey loves us. his grace has been so kind as to send his own uncle imp to bring us to his court. bronn snorted back laughter, and tyrion perforce must feign amusement as well. not alone, my lords. that would be too enormous a task for a little man like me. his own party had come up on them, so it was his turn to name the names. let me present ser flement brax, heir to homvale. lord gyles of rosby. ser addam marbrand, lord commander of the city watch. jalabhar xho, prince of the red flower vale. ser harys swyft, my uncle kevan's good father by marriage. ser merlon crakehall. ser philip foote and ser bronn of the blackwater, two heroes of our recent battle against the rebel stannis baratheon. and mine own squire, young podrick of house payne. the names had a nice ringing sound as tyrion reeled them off, but the bearers were nowise near as distinguished nor formidable a company as those who accompanied prince oberyn, as both of them knew full well. my lord of lannister, said lady blackmont, we have come a long dusty way, and rest and refreshment would be most welcome. might we continue on to the city? at once, my lady. tyrion turned his horse's head, and called to ser addam marbrand. the mounted gold cloaks who formed the greatest part of his honor guard turned their horses crisply at ser addam's command, and the column set off for the river and king's landing beyond. oberyn nymeros martell, tyrion muttered under his breath as he fell in beside the man. the red viper of dome. and what in the seven hells am i supposed to do with him? he knew the man only by reputation, to be sure... but the reputation was fearsome. when he was no more than sixteen, prince oberyn had been found abed with the paramour of old lord yronwood, a huge man of fierce repute and short temper. a duel ensued, though in view of the prince's youth and high birth, it was only to first blood. both men took cuts, and honor was satisfied. yet prince oberyn soon recovered, while lord yronwood's wounds festered and killed him. afterward men whispered that oberyn had fought with a poisoned sword, and ever thereafter friends and foes alike called him the red viper. that was many years ago, to be sure. the boy of sixteen was a man past forty now, and his legend had grown a deal darker. he had traveled in the free cities, learning the poisoner's trade and perhaps arts darker still, if rumors could be believed. he had studied at the citadel, going so far as to forge six links of a maester's chain before he grew bored. he had soldiered in the disputed lands across the narrow sea, riding with the second sons for a time before forming his own company. his tourneys, his battles, his duels, his horses, his carnality... it was said that he bedded men and women both, and had begotten bastard girls all over dome. the sand snakes, men called his daughters. so far as tyrion had heard, prince oberyn had never fathered a son. and of course, he had crippled the heir to highgarden. there is no man in the seven kingdoms who will be less welcome at a tyrell wedding, thought tyrion. to send prince oberyn to king's landing while the city still hosted lord mace tyrell, two of his sons, and thousands of their men-at-arms was a provocation as dangerous as prince oberyn himself. a wrong word, an ill-timed jest, a look, that's all it will take, and our noble allies will be at one another's throats. we have met before, the dornish prince said lightly to tyrion as they rode side by side along the kingsroad, past ashen fields and the skeletons of trees. i would not expect you to remember, though. you were even smaller than you are now. there was a mocking edge to his voice that tyrion misliked, but he was not about to let the dornishman provoke him. when was this, my lord? he asked in tones of polite interest. oh, many and many a year ago, when my mother ruled in dome and your lord father was hand to a different king. not so different as you might think, reflected tyrion. it was when i visited casterly rock with my mother, her consort, and my sister elia. i was, oh, fourteen, fifteen, thereabouts, elia a year older. your brother and sister were eight or nine, as i recall, and you had just been born. a queer time to come visiting. his mother had died giving him birth, so the martells would have found the rock deep in mourning. his father especially. lord tywin seldom spoke of his wife, but tyrion had heard his uncles talk of the love between them. in those days, his father had been aerys's hand, and many people said that lord tywin lannister ruled the seven kingdoms, but lady joanna ruled lord tywin. he was not the same man after she died, imp, his uncle gery told him once. the best part of him died with her. gerion had been the youngest of lord tytos lannister's four sons, and the uncle tyrion liked best. but he was gone now, lost beyond the seas, and tyrion himself had put lady joanna in her grave. did you find casterly rock to your liking, my lord? scarcely. your father ignored us the whole time we were there, after commanding ser kevan to see to our entertainment. the cell they gave me had a featherbed to sleep in and myrish carpets on the floor, but it was dark and windowless, much like a dungeon when you come down to it, as i told elia at the time. your skies were too grey, your wines too sweet, your women too chaste, your food too bland... and you yourself were the greatest disappointment of all. i had just been born. what did you expect of me? enormity, the black-haired prince replied. you were small, but far-famed. we were in oldtown at your birth, and all the city talked of was the monster that had been born to the king's hand, and what such an omen might foretell for the realm. famine, plague, and war, no doubt. tyrion gave a sour smile. it's always famine, plague, and war. oh, and winter, and the long night that never ends. all that, said prince oberyn, and your father's fall as well. lord tywin had made himself greater than king aerys, i heard one begging brother preach, but only a god is meant to stand above a king. you were his curse, a punishment sent by the gods to teach him that he was no better than any other man. i try, but he refuses to learn. tyrion gave a sigh. but do go on, i pray you. i love a good tale. and well you might, since you were said to have one, a stiff curly tail like a swine's. your head was monstrous huge, we heard, half again the size of your body, and you had been born with thick black hair and a beard besides, an evil eye, and lion's claws. your teeth were so long you could not close your mouth, and between your legs were a girl's privates as well as a boy's. life would be much simpler if men could fuck themselves, don't you agree? and i can think of a few times when claws and teeth might have proved useful. even so, i begin to see the nature of your complaint. bronn gave out with a chuckle, but oberyn only smiled. we might never have seen you at all but for your sweet sister. you were never seen at table or hall, though sometimes at night we could hear a baby howling down in the depths of the rock. you did have a monstrous great voice, i must grant you that. you would wail for hours, and nothing would quiet you but a woman's teat. still true, as it happens. this time prince oberyn did laugh. a taste we share. lord gargalen once told me he hoped to die with a sword in his hand, to which i replied that i would sooner go with a breast in mine. tyrion had to grin. you were speaking of my sister? cersei promised elia to show you to us. the day before we were to sail, whilst my mother and your father were closeted together, she and jaime took us down to your nursery. your wet nurse tried to send us off, but your sister was having none of that.'he's mine' she said,'and you're just a milk cow, you can't tell me what to do. be quiet or i'll have my father cut your tongue out. a cow doesn't need a tongue, only udders.' her grace learned charm at an early age, said tyrion, amused by the notion of his sister claiming him as hers. she's never been in any rush to claim me since, the gods know. cersei even undid your swaddling clothes to give us a better look, the dornish prince continued. you did have one evil eye, and some black fuzz on your scalp. perhaps your head was larger than most... but there was no tail, no beard, neither teeth nor claws, and nothing between your legs but a tiny pink cock. after all the wonderful whispers, lord tywin's doom turned out to be just a hideous red infant with stunted legs. elia even made the noise that young girls make at the sight of infants, i'm sure you've heard it. the same noise they make over cute kittens and playful puppies. i believe she wanted to nurse you herself, ugly as you were. when i commented that you seemed a poor sort of monster, your sister said,'he killed my mother' and twisted your little cock so hard i thought she was like to pull it off. you shrieked, but it was only when your brother jaime said,'leave him be, you're hurting him' that cersei let go of you.'it doesn't matter' she told us.'everyone says he's like to die soon. he shouldn't even have lived this long.' the sun was shining bright above them, and the day was pleasantly warm for autumn, but tyrion lannister went cold all over when he heard that. my sweet sister. he scratched at the scar of his nose and gave the dornishman a taste of his evil eye. now why would he tell such a tale? is he testing me, or simply twisting my cock as cersei did, so he can hear me scream? be sure and tell that story to my father. it will delight him as much as it did me. the part about my tail, especially. i did have one, but he had it lopped off. prince oberyn had a chuckle. you've grown more amusing since last we met. yes, but i meant to grow taller. while we are speaking of amusement, i heard a curious tale from lord buckler's steward. he claimed that you had put a tax on women's privy purses. it is a tax on whoring, said tyrion, irritated all over again. and it was my bloody father's notion. only a penny for each, ah... act. the king's hand felt it might help improve the morals of the city. and pay for joffrey's wedding besides. needless to say, as master of coin, tyrion had gotten all the blame for it. bronn said they were calling it the dwarfs penny in the streets. spread your legs for the halfman, now, they were shouting in the brothels and wine sinks, if the sellsword could be believed. i will make certain to keep my pouch full of pennies. even a prince must pay his taxes. why should you need to go whoring? he glanced back to where ellaria sand rode among the other women. did you tire of your paramour on the road? never. we share too much. prince oberyn shrugged. we have never shared a beautiful blonde woman, however, and ellaria is curious. do you know of such a creature? i am a man wedded. though not yet bedded. i no longer frequent whores. unless i want to see them hanged. oberyn abruptly changed the subject. it's said there are to be seventy seven dishes served at the king's wedding feast. are you hungry, my prince? i have hungered for a long time. though not for food. pray tell me, when will the justice be served? justice. yes, that is why he's here, i should have seen that at once. you were close to your sister? as children elia and i were inseparable, much like your own brother and sister. gods, i hope not. wars and weddings have kept us well occupied, prince oberyn. i fear no one has yet had the time to look into murders sixteen years stale, dreadful as they were. we shall, of course, just as soon as we may. any help that dome might be able to provide to restore the king's peace would only hasten the beginning of my lord father's inquiry - dwarf, said the red viper, in a tone grown markedly less cordial, spare me your lannister lies. is it sheep you take us for, or fools? my brother is not a bloodthirsty man, but neither has he been asleep for sixteen years. jon arryn came to sunspear the year after robert took the throne, and you can be sure that he was questioned closely. him, and a hundred more. i did not come for some mummer's show of an inquiry. i came for justice for elia and her children, and i will have it. starting with this lummox gregor clegane... but not, i think, ending there. before he dies, the enormity that rides will tell me whence came his orders, please assure your lord father of that.  he smiled. an old septon once claimed i was living proof of the goodness of the gods. do you know why that is, imp? no, tyrion admitted warily. why, if the gods were cruel, they would have made me my mother's firstborn, and doran her third. i am a bloodthirsty man, you see. and it is me you must contend with now, not my patient, prudent, and gouty brother. tyrion could see the sun shining on the blackwater rush half a mile ahead, and on the walls and towers and hills of king's landing beyond. he glanced over his shoulder, at the glittering column following them up the kingsroad. you speak like a man with a great host at his back, he said, yet all i see are three hundred. do you spy that city there, north of the river? the midden heap you call king's landing? that's the very one. not only do i see it, i believe i smell it now. then take a good sniff, my lord. fill up your nose. haifa million people stink more than three hundred, you'll find. do you smell the gold cloaks? there are near five thousand of them. my father's own sworn swords must account for another twenty thousand. and then there are the roses. roses smell so sweet, don't they? especially when there are so many of them. fifty, sixty, seventy thousand roses, in the city or camped outside it, i can't really say how many are left, but there's more than i care to count, anyway. martell gave a shrug. in dome of old before we married dacron, it was said that all flowers bow before the sun. should the roses seek to hinder me i'll gladly trample them underfoot. as you trampled willas tyrell? the dornishman did not react as expected. i had a letter from willas not half a year past. we share an interest in fine horseflesh. he has never borne me any ill will for what happened in the lists. i struck his breastplate clean, but his foot caught in a stirrup as he fell and his horse came down on top of him. i sent a maester to him afterward, but it was all he could do to save the boy's leg. the knee was far past mending. if any were to blame, it was his fool of a father. willas tyrell was green as his surcoat and had no business riding in such company. the fat flower thrust him into tourneys at too tender an age, just as he did with the other two. he wanted another leo longthorn, and made himself a cripple. there are those who say ser loras is better than leo longthorn ever was, said tyrion. renly's little rose? i doubt that. doubt it all you wish, said tyrion, but ser loras has defeated many good knights, including my brother jaime. by defeated, you mean unhorsed, in tourney. tell me who he's slain in battle if you mean to frighten me. ser robar royce and ser emmon cuy, for two. and men say he performed prodigious feats of valor on the blackwater, fighting beside lord renly's ghost. so these same men who saw the prodigious feats saw the ghost as well, yes? the dornishman laughed lightly. tyrion gave him a long look. chataya's on the street of silk has several girls who might suit your needs. dancy has hair the color of honey. marei's is pale white-gold. i would advise you to keep one or the other by your side at all times, my lord. at all times? prince oberyn lifted a thin black eyebrow. and why is that, my good imp? you want to die with a breast in hand, you said. tyrion cantered on ahead to where the ferry barges waited on the south bank of the blackwater. he had suffered all he meant to suffer of what passed for dornish wit. father should have sent joffrey after all. he could have asked prince oberyn if he knew how a dornishman differed from a cowflop. that made him grin despite himself. he would have to make a point of being on hand when the red viper was presented to the king. they supped alone, as they did so often. the pease are overcooked, his wife ventured once. no matter, he said. so is the mutton. it was a jest, but sansa took it for criticism. i am sorry, my lord. why? some cook should be sorry. not you. the pease are not your province, sansa. i... i am sorry that my lord husband is displeased. any displeasure i'm feeling has naught to do with pease. i have joffrey and my sister to displease me, and my lord father, and three hundred bloody dornishmen. he had settled prince oberyn and his lords in a cornerfort facing the city, as far from the tyrells as he could put them without evicting them from the red keep entirely. it was not nearly far enough. already there had been a brawl in a flea bottom pot-shop that left one tyrell man-at-arms dead and two of lord gargalen's scalded, and an ugly confrontation in the yard when mace tyrell's wizened little mother called ellaria sand the serpent's whore. every time he chanced to see oberyn martell the prince asked when the justice would be served. overcooked pease were the least of tyrion's troubles, but he saw no point in burdening his young wife with any of that. sansa had enough griefs of her own. the pease suffice, he told her curtly. they are green and round, what more can one expect of pease? here, i'll have another serving, if it please my lady. he beckoned, and podrick payne spooned so many pease onto his plate that tyrion lost sight of his mutton. that was stupid, he told himself. now i have to eat them all, or she'll be sorry all over again. the supper ended in a strained silence, as so many of their suppers did. afterward, as pod was removing the cups and platters, sansa asked tyrion for leave to visit the godswood. as you wish. he had become accustomed to his wife's nightly devotions. she prayed at the royal sept as well, and often lit candles to mother, maid, and crone. tyrion found all this piety excessive, if truth be told, but in her place he might want the help of the gods as well. i confess, i know little of the old gods, he said, trying to be pleasant. perhaps someday you might enlighten me. i could even accompany you. no, sansa said at once. you... you are kind to offer, but... there are no devotions, my lord. no priests or songs or candles. only trees, and silent prayer. you would be bored. no doubt you're right. she knows me better than i thought. though the sound of rustling leaves might be a pleasant change from some septon droning on about the seven aspects of grace. tyrion waved her off. i won't intrude. dress warmly, my lady, the wind is brisk out there. he was tempted to ask what she prayed for, but sansa was so dutiful she might actually tell him, and he didn't think he wanted to know. he went back to work after she left, trying to track some golden dragons through the labyrinth of littlefinger's ledgers. petyr baelish had not believed in letting gold sit about and grow dusty, that was for certain, but the more tyrion tried to make sense of his accounts the more his head hurt. it was all very well to talk of breeding dragons instead of locking them up in the treasury, but some of these ventures smelled worse than week-old fish. i wouldn't have been so quick to let joffrey fling the antler men over the walls if i'd known how many of the bloody bastards had taken loans from the crown. he would have to send bronn to find their heirs, but he feared that would prove as fruitful as trying to squeeze silver from a silverfish. when the summons from his lord father arrived, it was the first time tyrion could ever recall being pleased to see ser boros blount. he closed the ledgers gratefully, blew out the oil lamp, tied a cloak around his shoulders, and waddled across the castle to the tower of the hand. the wind was brisk, just as he'd warned sansa, and there was a smell of rain in the air. perhaps when lord tywin was done with him he should go to the godswood and fetch her home before she got soaked. but all that went straight out of his head when he entered the hand's solar to find cersei, ser kevan, and grand maester pycelle gathered about lord tywin and the king. joffrey was almost bouncing, and cersei was savoring a smug little smile, though lord tywin looked as grim as ever. i wonder if he could smile even if he wanted to. what's happened? tyrion asked. his father offered him a roll of parchment. someone had flattened it, but it still wanted to curl. roslin caught a fine fat trout, the message read. her brothers gave her a pair of wolf pelts for her wedding. tyrion turned it over to inspect the broken seal. the wax was silvery-grey, and pressed into it were the twin towers of house frey. does the lord of the crossing imagine he's being poetic? or is this meant to confound us? tyrion snorted. the trout would be edmure tully, the pelts... he's dead! joffrey sounded so proud and happy you might have thought he'd skinned robb stark himself. first greyjoy and now stark. tyrion thought of his child wife, praying in the godswood even now. praying to her father's gods to bring her brother victory and keep her mother safe, no doubt. the old gods paid no more heed to prayer than the new ones, it would seem. perhaps he should take comfort in that. kings are falling like leaves this autumn, he said. it would seem our little war is winning itself. wars do not win themselves, tyrion, cersei said with poisonous sweetness. our lord father won this war. nothing is won so long as we have enemies in the field, lord tywin warned them. the river lords are no fools, the queen argued. without the northmen they cannot hope to stand against the combined power of highgarden, casterly rock, and dome. surely they will choose submission rather than destruction. most, agreed lord tywin. riverrun remains, but so long as walder frey holds edmure tully hostage, the blackfish dare not mount a threat. jason mallister and tytos blackwood will fight on for honor's sake, but the freys can keep the mallisters penned up at seagard, and with the right inducement jonos bracken can be persuaded to change his allegiance and attack the blackwoods. in the end they will bend the knee, yes. i mean to offer generous terms. any castle that yields to us will be spared, save one. harrenhal? said tyrion, who knew his sire. the realm is best rid of these brave companions. i have commanded ser gregor to put the castle to the sword. gregor clegane. it appeared as if his lord father meant to mine the mountain for every last nugget of ore before turning him over to dornish justice. the brave companions would end as heads on spikes, and littlefinger would stroll into harrenhal without so much as a spot of blood on those fine clothes of his. he wondered if petyr baelish had reached the vale yet. if the gods are good, he ran into a storm at sea and sank. but when had the gods ever been especially good? they should all be put to the sword, joffrey declared suddenly. the mallisters and blackwoods and brackens... all of them. they're traitors. i want them killed, grandfather. i won't have any generous terms. the king turned to grand maester pycelle. and i want robb stark's head too. write to lord frey and tell him. the king commands. i'm going to have it served to sansa at my wedding feast. sire, ser kevan said, in a shocked voice, the lady is now your aunt by marriage. a jest. cersei smiled. joff did not mean it. yes i did, joffrey insisted. he was a traitor, and i want his stupid head. i'm going to make sansa kiss it. no. tyrion's voice was hoarse. sansa is no longer yours to torment. understand that, monster. joffrey sneered. you're the monster, uncle. am i? tyrion cocked his head. perhaps you should speak more softly to me, then. monsters are dangerous beasts, and just now kings seem to be dying like flies. i could have your tongue out for saying that, the boy king said, reddening. i'm the king. cersei put a protective hand on her son's shoulder. let the dwarf make all the threats he likes, joff. i want my lord father and my uncle to see what he is. lord tywin ignored that; it was joffrey he addressed. aerys also felt the need to remind men that he was king. and he was passing fond of ripping tongues out as well. you could ask ser ilyn payne about that, though you'll get no reply. ser ilyn never dared provoke aerys the way your imp provokes joff, said cersei. you heard him.'monster' he said. to the king's grace. and he threatened him... be quiet, cersei. joffrey, when your enemies defy you, you must serve them steel and fire. when they go to their knees, however, you must help them back to their feet. elsewise no man will ever bend the knee to you. and any man who must say t am the king' is no true king at all. aerys never understood that, but you will. when i've won your war for you, we will restore the king's peace and the king's justice. the only head that need concern you is margaery tyrell's maidenhead. joffrey had that sullen, sulky look he got. cersei had him firmly by the shoulder, but perhaps she should have had him by the throat. the boy surprised them all. instead of scuttling safely back under his rock, joff drew himself up defiantly and said, you talk about aerys, grandfather, but you were scared of him. oh, my, hasn't this gotten interesting? tyrion thought. lord tywin studied his grandchild in silence, gold flecks shining in his pale green eyes. joffrey, apologize to your grandfather, said cersei. he wrenched free of her. why should i? everyone knows it's true. my father won all the battles. he killed prince rhaegar and took the crown, while your father was hiding under casterly rock. the boy gave his grandfather a defiant look. a strong king acts boldly, he doesn't just talk. thank you for that wisdom, your grace, lord tywin said, with a courtesy so cold it was like to freeze their ears off. ser kevan, i can see the king is tired. please see him safely back to his bedchamber. pycelle, perhaps some gentle potion to help his grace sleep restfully? dreamwine, my lord? i don't want any dreamwine, joffrey insisted. lord tywin would have paid more heed to a mouse squeaking in the corner. dreamwine will serve. cersei, tyrion, remain. ser kevan took joffrey firmly by the arm and marched him out the door, where two of the kingsguard were waiting. grand maester pycelle scurried after them as fast as his shaky old legs could take him. tyrion remained where he was. father, i am sorry, cersei said, when the door was shut. joff has always been willful, i did warn you... there is a long league's worth of difference between willful and stupid.'a strong king acts boldly?' who told him that? not me, i promise you, said cersei. most like it was something he heard robert say... the part about you hiding under casterly rock does sound like robert. tyrion didn't want lord tywin forgetting that bit. yes, i recall now, cersei said, robert often told joff that a king must be bold. and what were you telling him, pray? i did not fight a war to seat robert the second on the iron throne. you gave me to understand the boy cared nothing for his father. why would he? robert ignored him. he would have beat him if i'd allowed it. that brute you made me marry once hit the boy so hard he knocked out two of his baby teeth, over some mischief with a cat. i told him i'd kill him in his sleep if he ever did it again, and he never did, but sometimes he would say things... it appears things needed to be said. lord tywin waved two fingers at her, a brusque dismissal. go. she went, seething. not robert the second, tyrion said. aerys the third. the boy is thirteen. there is time yet. lord tywin paced to the window. that was unlike him; he was more upset than he wished to show. he requires a sharp lesson. tyrion had gotten his own sharp lesson at thirteen. he felt almost sorry for his nephew. on the other hand, no one deserved it more. enough of joffrey, he said. wars are won with quills and ravens, wasn't that what you said? i must congratulate you. how long have you and walder frey been plotting this? i mislike that word, lord tywin said stiffly. and i mislike being left in the dark. there was no reason to tell you. you had no part in this. was cersei told? tyrion demanded to know. no one was told, save those who had a part to play. and they were only told as much as they needed to know. you ought to know that there is no other way to keep a secret - here, especially. my object was to rid us of a dangerous enemy as cheaply as i could, not to indulge your curiosity or make your sister feel important. he closed the shutters, frowning. you have a certain cunning, tyrion, but the plain truth is you talk too much. that loose tongue of yours will be your undoing. you should have let joff tear it out, suggested tyrion. you would do well not to tempt me, lord tywin said. i'll hear no more of this. i have been considering how best to appease oberyn martell and his entourage. oh? is this something i'm allowed to know, or should i leave so you can discuss it with yourself? his father ignored the sally. prince oberyn' s presence here is unfortunate. his brother is a cautious man, a reasoned man, subtle, deliberate, even indolent to a degree. he is a man who weighs the consequences of every word and every action. but oberyn has always been half- mad. is it true he tried to raise dome for viserys? no one speaks of it, but yes. ravens flew and riders rode, with what secret messages i never knew. jon arryn sailed to sunspear to return prince lewyn's bones, sat down with prince doran, and ended all the talk of war. but robert never went to dome thereafter, and prince oberyn seldom left it. well, he's here now, with half the nobility of dome in his tail, and he grows more impatient every day, said tyrion. perhaps i should show him the brothels of king's landing, that might distract him. a tool for every task, isn't that how it works? my tool is yours, father. never let it be said that house lannister blew its trumpets and i did not respond. lord tywin' s mouth tightened. very droll. shall i have them sew you a suit of motley, and a little hat with bells on it? if i wear it, do i have leave to say anything i want about his grace king joffrey? lord tywin seated himself again and said, i was made to suffer my father's follies. i will not suffer yours. enough. very well, as you ask so pleasantly. the red viper is not going to be pleasant, i fear... nor will he content himself with ser gregor's head alone. all the more reason not to give it to him. not to... ? tyrion was shocked. i thought we were agreed that the woods were full of beasts. lesser beasts. lord tywin's fingers laced together under his chin. ser gregor has served us well. no other knight in the realm inspires such terror in our enemies. oberyn knows that gregor was the one who... he knows nothing. he has heard tales. stable gossip and kitchen calumnies. he has no crumb of proof. ser gregor is certainly not about to confess to him. i mean to keep him well away for so long as the dornishmen are in king's landing. and when oberyn demands the justice he's come for? i will tell him that ser amory lorch killed elia and her children, lord tywin said calmly. so will you, if he asks. ser amory lorch is dead, tyrion said flatly. precisely. vargo hoat had ser amory torn apart by a bear after the fall of harrenhal. that ought to be sufficiently grisly to appease even oberyn martell. you may call that justice... it is justice. it was ser amory who brought me the girl's body, if you must know. he found her hiding under her father's bed, as if she believed rhaegar could still protect her. princess elia and the babe were in the nursery a floor below. well, it's a tale, and ser amory's not like to deny it. what will you tell oberyn when he asks who gave lorch his orders? ser amory acted on his own in the hope of winning favor from the new king. robert's hatred for rhaegar was scarcely a secret. it might serve, tyrion had to concede, but the snake will not be happy. far be it from me to question your cunning, father, but in your place i do believe i'd have let robert baratheon bloody his own hands. lord tywin stared at him as if he had lost his wits. you deserve that motley, then. we had come late to robert's cause. it was necessary to demonstrate our loyalty. when i laid those bodies before the throne, no man could doubt that we had forsaken house targaryen forever. and robert's relief was palpable. as stupid as he was, even he knew that rhaegar's children had to die if his throne was ever to be secure. yet he saw himself as a hero, and heroes do not kill children. his father shrugged. i grant you, it was done too brutally. elia need not have been harmed at all, that was sheer folly. by herself she was nothing. then why did the mountain kill her? because i did not tell him to spare her. i doubt i mentioned her at all. i had more pressing concerns. ned stark's van was rushing south from the trident, and i feared it might come to swords between us. and it was in aerys to murder jaime, with no more cause than spite. that was the thing i feared most. that, and what jaime himself might do. he closed a fist. nor did i yet grasp what i had in gregor clegane, only that he was huge and terrible in battle. the rape... even you will not accuse me of giving that command, i would hope. ser amory was almost as bestial with rhaenys. i asked him afterward why it had required half a hundred thrusts to kill a girl of... two? three? he said she'd kicked him and would not stop screaming. if lorch had half the wits the gods gave a turnip, he would have calmed her with a few sweet words and used a soft silk pillow. his mouth twisted in distaste. the blood was in him. but not in you, father. there is no blood in tywin lannister. was it a soft silk pillow that slew robb stark? it was to be an arrow, at edmure tully's wedding feast. the boy was too wary in the field. he kept his men in good order, and surrounded himself with outriders and bodyguards. so lord walder slew him under his own roof, at his own table? tyrion made a fist. what of lady catelyn? slain as well, i'd say. a pair of wolfskins. frey had intended to keep her captive, but perhaps something went awry. so much for guest right. the blood is on walder frey's hands, not mine. walder frey is a peevish old man who lives to fondle his young wife and brood over all the slights he's suffered. i have no doubt he hatched this ugly chicken, but he would never have dared such a thing without a promise of protection. i suppose you would have spared the boy and told lord frey you had no need of his allegiance? that would have driven the old fool right back into stark's arms and won you another year of war. explain to me why it is more noble to kill ten thousand men in battle than a dozen at dinner. when tyrion had no reply to that, his father continued. the price was cheap by any measure. the crown shall grant riverrun to ser emmon frey once the blackfish yields. lancel and daven must marry frey girls, joy is to wed one of lord walder's natural sons when she's old enough, and roose bolton becomes warden of the north and takes home arya stark. arya stark? tyrion cocked his head. and bolton? i might have known frey would not have the stomach to act alone. but arya... varys and ser jacelyn searched for her for more than half a year. arya stark is surely dead. so was renly, until the blackwater. what does that mean? perhaps littlefinger succeeded where you and varys failed. lord bolton will wed the girl to his bastard son. we shall allow the dreadfort to fight the ironborn for a few years, and see if he can bring stark's other bannermen to heel. come spring, all of them should be at the end of their strength and ready to bend the knee. the north will go to your son by sansa stark... if you ever find enough manhood in you to breed one. lest you forget, it is not only joffrey who must needs take a maidenhead. i had not forgotten, though i'd hoped you had. and when do you imagine sansa will be at her most fertile? tyrion asked his father in tones that dripped acid. before or after i tell her how we murdered her mother and her brother? tyrion dressed himself in darkness, listening to his wife's soft breathing from the bed they shared. she dreams, he thought, when sansa murmured something softly - a name, perhaps, though it was too faint to say - and turned onto her side. as man and wife they shared a marriage bed, but that was all. even her tears she hoards to herself. he had expected anguish and anger when he told her of her brother's death, but sansa's face had remained so still that for a moment he feared she had not understood. it was only later, with a heavy oaken door between them, that he heard her sobbing. tyrion had considered going to her then, to offer what comfort he could. no, he had to remind himself, she will not look for solace from a lannister. the most he could do was to shield her from the uglier details of the red wedding as they came down from the twins. sansa did not need to hear how her brother's body had been hacked and mutilated, he decided; nor how her mother's corpse had been dumped naked into the green fork in a savage mockery of house tully's funeral customs. the last thing the girl needed was more fodder for her nightmares. it was not enough, though. he had wrapped his cloak around her shoulders and sworn to protect her, but that was as cruel a jape as the crown the freys had placed atop the head of robb stark's direwo if after they'd sewn it onto his headless corpse. sansa knew that as well. the way she looked at him, her stiffness when she climbed into their bed... when he was with her, never for an instant could he forget who he was, or what he was. no more than she did. she still went nightly to the godswood to pray, and tyrion wondered if she were praying for his death. she had lost her home, her place in the world, and everyone she had ever loved or trusted. winter is coming, warned the stark words, and truly it had come for them with a vengeance. but it is high summer for house lannister. so why am i so bloody cold? he pulled on his boots, fastened his cloak with a lion's head brooch, and slipped out into the torchlit hall. there was this much to be said for his marriage; it had allowed him to escape maegor's holdfast. now that he had a wife and household, his lord father had agreed that more suitable accommodations were required, and lord gyles had found himself abruptly dispossessed of his spacious apartments atop the kitchen keep. and splendid apartments they were too, with a large bedchamber and adequate solar, a bath and dressing room for his wife, and small adjoining chambers for pod and sansa's maids. even bronn's cell by the stair had a window of sorts. well, more an arrow slit, but it lets in light. the castle's main kitchen was just across the courtyard, true, but tyrion found those sounds and smells infinitely preferable to sharing maegor's with his sister. the less he had to see of cersei the happier he was like to be. tyrion could hear brella's snoring as he passed her cell. shae complained of that, but it seemed a small enough price to pay. varys had suggested the woman to him; in former days, she had run lord renly's household in the city, which had given her a deal of practice at being blind, deaf, and mute. lighting a taper, he made his way back to the servants' steps and descended. the floors below his own were still, and he heard no footsteps but his own. down he went, to the ground floor and beyond, to emerge in a gloomy cellar with a vaulted stone ceiling. much of the castle was connected underground, and the kitchen keep was no exception. tyrion waddled along a long dark passageway until he found the door he wanted, and pushed through. within, the dragon skulls were waiting, and so was shae. i thought m'lord had forgotten me. her dress was draped over a black tooth near as tall as she was, and she stood within the dragon's jaws, nude. balerion, he thought. or was it vhagar? one dragon skull looked much like another. just the sight of her made him hard. come out of there. i won't. she smiled her wickedest smile. m'lord will pluck me from the dragon's jaws, i know. but when he waddled closer she leaned forward and blew out the taper. shae... he reached, but she spun and slipped free. you have to catch me. her voice came from his left. m'lord must have played monsters and maidens when he was little. are you calling me a monster? no more than i'm a maiden. she was behind him, her steps soft against the floor. you need to catch me all the same. he did, finally, but only because she let herself be caught. by the time she slipped into his arms, he was flushed and out of breath from stumbling into dragon skulls. all that was forgotten in an instant when he felt her small breasts pressed against his face in the dark, her stiff little nipples brushing lightly over his lips and the scar where his nose had been. tyrion pulled her down onto the floor. my giant, she breathed as he entered her. my giant's come to save me. after, as they lay entwined amongst the dragon skulls, he rested his head against her, inhaling the smooth clean smell of her hair. we should go back, he said reluctantly. it must be near dawn. sansa will be waking. you should give her dreamwine, shae said, like lady tanda does with lollys. a cup before she goes to sleep, and we could fuck in bed beside her without her waking. she giggled. maybe we should, some night. would m'lord like that? her hand found his shoulder, and began to knead the muscles there. your neck is hard as stone. what troubles you? tyrion could not see his fingers in front of his face, but he ticked his woes off on them all the same. my wife. my sister. my nephew. my father. the tyre lis. he had to move to his other hand. varys. pycelle. littlefinger. the red viper of dome. he had come to his last finger. the face that stares back out of the water when i wash. shae kissed his maimed scarred nose. a brave face. a kind and good face. i wish i could see it now. all the sweet innocence of the world was in her voice. innocence? fool, she's a whore, all she knows of men is the bit between their legs. fool, fool. better you than me. tyrion sat. we have a long day before us, both of us. you shouldn't have blown out that taper. how are we to find our clothing? she laughed. maybe we'll have to go naked. and if we're seen, my lord father will hang you. hiring shae as one of sansa's maids had given him an excuse to be seen talking with her, but tyrion did not delude himself that they were safe. varys had warned him. i gave shae a false history, but it was meant for lollys and lady tanda. your sister is of a more suspicious mind. if she should ask me what i know... you will tell her some clever lie. no. i will tell her that the girl is a common camp follower that you acquired before the battle on the green fork and brought to king's landing against your lord father's express command. i will not lie to the queen. you have lied to her before. shall i tell her that? the eunuch sighed. that cuts more deeply than a knife, my lord. i have served you loyally, but i must also serve your sister when i can. how long do you think she would let me live if i were of no further use to her whatsoever? i have no fierce sellsword to protect me, no valiant brother to avenge me, only some little birds who whisper in my ear. with those whisperings i must buy my life anew each day. pardon me if i do not weep for you. i shall, but you must pardon me if i do not weep for shae. i confess, i do not understand what there is in her to make a clever man like you act such a fool. you might, if you were not a eunuch. is that the way of it? a man may have wits, or a bit of meat between his legs, but not both? varys tittered. perhaps i should be grateful i was cut, then. the spider was right. tyrion groped through the dragon-haunted darkness for his smallclothes, feeling wretched. the risk he was taking left him tight as a drumhead, and there was guilt as well. the others can take my guilt, he thought as he slipped his tunic over his head. why should i be guilty? my wife wants no part of me, and most especially not the part that seems to want her. perhaps he ought to tell her about shae. it was not as though he was the first man ever to keep a concubine. sansa's own oh-so-honorable father had given her a bastard brother. for all he knew, his wife might be thrilled to learn that he was fucking shae, so long as it spared her his unwelcome touch. no, i dare not. vows or no, his wife could not be trusted. she might be maiden between the legs, but she was hardly innocent of betrayal; she had once spilled her own father's plans to cersei. and girls her age were not known for keeping secrets. the only safe course was to rid himself of shae. i might send her to chataya, tyrion reflected, reluctantly. in chataya' s brothel, shae would have all the silks and gems she could wish for, and the gentlest highborn patrons. it would be a better life by far than the one she had been living when he'd found her. or, if she was tired of earning her bread on her back, he might arrange a marriage for her. bronn, perhaps? the sellsword had never balked at eating off his master's plate, and he was a knight now, a better match than she could elsewise hope for. or ser tallad? tyrion had noticed that one gazing wistfully at shae more than once. why not? he's tall, strong, not hard to look upon, every inch the gifted young knight. of course, tallad knew shae only as a pretty young lady's maid in service at the castle. if he wed her and then learned she was a whore... m'lord, where are you? did the dragons eat you up? no. here. he groped at a dragon skull. i have found a shoe, but i believe it's yours. m'lord sounds very solemn. have i displeased you? no, he said, too curtly. you always please me. and therein is our danger. he might dream of sending her away at times like this, but that never lasted long. tyrion saw her dimly through the gloom, pulling a woolen sock up a slender leg. i can see. a vague light was leaking through the row of long narrow windows set high in the cellar wall. the skulls of the targaryen dragons were emerging from the darkness around them, black amidst grey. day comes too soon. a new day. a new year. a new century. i survived the green fork and the blackwater, i can bloody well survive king joffrey's wedding. shae snatched her dress down off the dragon's tooth and slipped it over her head. i'll go up first. brella will want help with the bathwater. she bent over to give him one last kiss, upon the brow. my giant of lannister. i love you so. and i love you as well, sweetling. a whore she might well be, but she deserved better than what he had to give her. i will wed her to ser tallad. he seems a decent man. and tall... the new crown that his father had given the faith stood twice as tall as the one the mob had smashed, a glory of crystal and spun gold. rainbow light flashed and shimmered every time the high septon moved his head, but tyrion had to wonder how the man could bear the weight. and even he had to concede that joffrey and margaery made a regal couple, as they stood side- by-side between the towering gilded statues of the father and the mother. the bride was lovely in ivory silk and myrish lace, her skirts decorated with floral patterns picked out in seed pearls. as renly's widow, she might have worn the baratheon colors, gold and black, yet she came to them a tyrell, in a maiden's cloak made of a hundred cloth-of-gold roses sewn to green velvet. he wondered if she really was a maiden. not that joffrey is like to know the difference. the king looked near as splendid as his bride, in his doublet of dusky rose, beneath a cloak of deep crimson velvet blazoned with his stag and lion. the crown rested easily on his curls, gold on gold. i saved that bloody crown for him. tyrion shifted his weight uncomfortably from one foot to the other. he could not stand still. too much wine. he should have thought to relieve himself before they set out from the red keep. the sleepless night he'd spent with shae was making itself felt too, but most of all he wanted to strangle his bloody royal nephew. i am no stranger to valyrian steel, the boy had boasted. the septons were always going on about how the father above judges us all. if the father would be so good as to topple over and crush jo ff like a dung beetle, i might even believe it. he ought to have seen it long ago. jaime would never send another man to do his killing, and cersei was too cunning to use a knife that could be traced back to her, but joff, arrogant vicious stupid little wretch that he was... he remembered a cold morning when he'd climbed down the steep exterior steps from winterfell's library to find prince joffrey jesting with the hound about killing wolves. send a dog to kill a wolf, he said. even joffrey was not so foolish as to command sandor clegane to slay a son of eddard stark, however; the hound would have gone to cersei. instead the boy found his catspaw among the unsavory lot of freeriders, merchants, and camp followers who'd attached themselves to the king's party as they made their way north. some poxy lackwit willing to risk his life for a prince's favor and a little coin. tyrion wondered whose idea it had been to wait until robert left winterfell before opening bran's throat. joffs, most like. no doubt he thought it was the height of cunning. the prince's own dagger had a jeweled pommel and inlaid goldwork on the blade, tyrion seemed to recall. at least joff had not been stupid enough to use that. instead he went poking among his father's weapons. robert baratheon was a man of careless generosity, and would have given his son any dagger he wanted... but tyrion guessed that the boy had just taken it. robert had come to winterfell with a long tail of knights and retainers, a huge wheelhouse, and a baggage train. no doubt some diligent servant had made certain that the king's weapons went with him, in case he should desire any of them. the blade jo ff chose was nice and plain. no goldwork, no jewels in the hilt, no silver inlay on the blade. king robert never wore it, had likely forgotten he owned it. yet the valyrian steel was deadly sharp... sharp enough to slice through skin, flesh, and muscle in one quick stroke. i am no stranger to valyrian steel. but he had been, hadn't he? else he would never have been so foolish as to pick little finger's knife. the why of it still eluded him. simple cruelty, perhaps? his nephew had that in abundance. it was all tyrion could do not to retch up all the wine he'd drunk, piss in his breeches, or both. he squirmed uncomfortably. he ought to have held his tongue at breakfast. the boy knows i know now my big mouth will be the death of me, i swear it. the seven vows were made, the seven blessings invoked, and the seven promises exchanged. when the wedding song had been sung and the challenge had gone unanswered, it was time for the exchange of cloaks. tyrion shifted his weight from one stunted leg to the other, trying to see between his father and his uncle kevan. if the gods are just, jo ff will make a hash of this. he made certain not to look at sansa, lest his bitterness show in his eyes. you might have knelt, damn you. would it have been so bloody hard to bend those stiff stark knees of yours and let me keep a little dignity? mace tyrell removed his daughter's maiden cloak tenderly, while joffrey accepted the folded bride's cloak from his brother tommen and shook it out with a flourish. the boy king was as tall at thirteen as his bride was at sixteen; he would not require a fool's back to climb upon. he draped margaery in the crimson-and-gold and leaned close to fasten it at her throat. and that easily she passed from her father's protection to her husband's. but who will protect her from joff? tyrion glanced at the knight of flowers, standing with the other kingsguard. you had best keep your sword well honed, ser loras. with this kiss i pledge my love! joffrey declared in ringing tones. when margaery echoed the words he pulled her close and kissed her long and deep. rainbow lights danced once more about the high septon's crown as he solemnly declared joffrey of the houses baratheon and lannister and margaery of house tyrell to be one flesh, one heart, one soul. good, that's done with. now let's get back to the bloody castle so i can have a piss. ser loras and ser meryn led the procession from the sept in their white scale armor and snowy cloaks. then came prince tommen, scattering rose petals from a basket before the king and queen. after the royal couple followed queen cersei and lord tyrell, then the bride's mother arm-in-arm with lord tywin. the queen of thorns tottered after them with one hand on ser kevan lannister's arm and the other on her cane, her twin guardsmen close behind her in case she fell. next came ser garlan tyrell and his lady wife, and finally it was their turn. my lady. tyrion offered sansa his arm. she took it dutifully, but he could feel her stiffness as they walked up the aisle together. she never once looked down at him. he heard them cheering outside even before he reached the doors. the mob loved margaery so much they were even willing to love joffrey again. she had belonged to renly, the handsome young prince who had loved them so well he had come back from beyond the grave to save them. and the bounty of highgarden had come with her, flowing up the roseroad from the south. the fools didn't seem to remember that it had been mace tyrell who closed the roseroad to begin with, and made the bloody famine. they stepped out into the crisp autumn air. i feared we'd never escape, tyrion quipped. sansa had no choice but to look at him then. i... yes, my lord. as you say. she looked sad. it was such a beautiful ceremony, though. as ours was not. it was long, i'll say that much. i need to return to the castle for a good piss. tyrion rubbed the stump of his nose. would that i'd contrived some mission to take me out of the city. littlefinger was the clever one. joffrey and margaery stood surrounded by kingsguard atop the steps that fronted on the broad marble plaza. ser addam and his gold cloaks held back the crowd, while the statue of king baelor the blessed gazed down on them benevolently. tyrion had no choice but to queue up with the rest to offer congratulations. he kissed margaery' s fingers and wished her every happiness. thankfully, there were others behind them waiting their turn, so they did not need to linger long. their litter had been sitting in the sun, and it was very warm inside the curtains. as they lurched into motion, tyrion reclined on an elbow while sansa sat staring at her hands. she is just as comely as the tyrell girl. her hair was a rich autumn auburn, her eyes a deep tully blue. grief had given her a haunted, vulnerable look; if anything, it had only made her more beautiful. he wanted to reach her, to break through the armor of her courtesy. was that what made him speak? or just the need to distract himself from the fullness in his bladder? i had been thinking that when the roads are safe again, we might journey to casterly rock. far from joffrey and my sister. the more he thought about what joff had done to lives of four kings, the more it troubled him. there was a message there, oh yes. it would please me to show you the golden gallery and the lion's mouth, and the hall of heroes where jaime and i played as boys. you can hear thunder from below where the sea comes in... she raised her head slowly. he knew what she was seeing; the swollen brutish brow, the raw stump of his nose, his crooked pink scar and mismatched eyes. her own eyes were big and blue and empty. i shall go wherever my lord husband wishes. i had hoped it might please you, my lady. it will please me to please my lord. his mouth tightened. what a pathetic little man you are. did you think babbling about the lion's mouth would make her smile? when have you ever made a woman smile but with gold? no, it was a foolish notion. only a lannister can love the rock. yes, my lord. as you wish. tyrion could hear the commons shouting out king joffrey's name. in three years that cruel boy will be a man, ruling in his own right... and every dwarf with half his wits will be a long way from king's landing. oldtown, perhaps. or even the free cities. he had always had a yen to see the titan of braavos. perhaps that would please sansa. gently, he spoke of braavos, and met a wall of sullen courtesy as icy and unyielding as the wall he had walked once in the north. it made him weary. then and now. they passed the rest of the journey in silence. after a while, tyrion found himself hoping that sansa would say something, anything, the merest word, but she never spoke. when the litter halted in the castle yard, he let one of the grooms help her down. we will be expected at the feast an hour hence, my lady. i will join you shortly. he walked off stiff- legged. across the yard, he could hear margaery's breathless laugh as joffrey swept her from the saddle. the boy will be as tall and strong as jaime one day, he thought, and i'll still be a dwarf beneath his feet. and one day he's like to make me even shorter... he found a privy and sighed gratefully as he relieved himself of the morning's wine. there were times when a piss felt near as good as a woman, and this was one. he wished he could relieve himself of his doubts and guilts half as easily. podrick payne was waiting outside his chambers. i laid out your new doublet. not here. on your bed, in the bedchamber. yes, that's where we keep the bed. sansa would be in there, dressing for the feast. shae as well. wine, pod. tyrion drank it in his window seat, brooding over the chaos of the kitchens below. the sun had not yet touched the top of the castle wall, but he could smell breads baking and meats roasting. the guests would soon be pouring into the throne room, full of anticipation; this would be an evening of song and splendor, designed not only to unite highgarden and casterly rock but to trumpet their power and wealth as a lesson to any who might still think to oppose joffrey' s rule. but who would be mad enough to contest joffrey's rule now, after what had befallen stannis baratheon and robb stark? there was still fighting in the riverlands, but everywhere the coils were tightening. ser gregor clegane had crossed the trident and seized the ruby ford, then captured harrenhal almost effortlessly. seagard had yielded to black walder frey, lord randyll tarly held maidenpool, duskendale, and the kingsroad. in the west, ser daven lannister had linked up with ser forley prester at the golden tooth for a march on riverrun. ser ryman frey was leading two thousand spears down from the twins to join them. and paxter redwyne claimed his fleet would soon set sail from the arbor, to begin the long voyage around dome and through the stepstones. stannis's lyseni pirates would be outnumbered ten to one. the struggle that the maesters were calling the war of the five kings was all but at an end. mace tyre 11 had been heard complaining that lord tywin had left no victories for him. my lord? pod was at his side. will you be changing? i laid out the doublet. on your bed. for the feast. feast? said tyrion sourly. what feast? the wedding feast. pod missed the sarcasm, of course. king joffrey and lady margaery. queen margaery, i mean. tyrion resolved to get very, very drunk tonight. very well, young podrick, let us go make me festive. shae was helping sansa with her hair when they entered the bedchamber. joy and grief, he thought when he beheld them there together. laughter and tears. sansa wore a gown of silvery satin trimmed in vair, with dagged sleeves that almost touched the floor, lined in soft purple felt. shae had arranged her hair artfully in a delicate silver net winking with dark purple gemstones. tyrion had never seen her look more lovely, yet she wore sorrow on those long satin sleeves. lady sansa, he told her, you shall be the most beautiful woman in the hall tonight. my lord is too kind. my lady, said shae wistfully. couldn't i come serve at table? i so want to see the pigeons fly out of the pie. sansa looked at her uncertainly. the queen has chosen all the servers. and the hall will be too crowded. tyrion had to bite back his annoyance. there will be musicians strolling all through the castle, though, and tables in the outer ward with food and drink for all. he inspected his new doublet, crimson velvet with padded shoulders and puffed sleeves slashed to show the black satin underlining. a handsome garment. all it wants is a handsome man to wear it. come, pod, help me into this. he had another cup of wine as he dressed, then took his wife by the arm and escorted her from the kitchen keep to join the river of silk, satin, and velvet flowing toward the throne room. some guests had gone inside to find their places on the benches. others were milling in front of the doors, enjoying the unseasonable warmth of the afternoon. tyrion led sansa around the yard, to perform the necessary courtesies. she is good at this, he thought, as he watched her tell lord gyles that his cough was sounding better, compliment elinor tyrell on her gown, and question jalabhar xho about wedding customs in the summer isles. his cousin ser lancel had been brought down by ser kevan, the first time he'd left his sickbed since the battle. he looks ghastly. lancel's hair had turned white and brittle, and he was thin as a stick. without his father beside him holding him up, he would surely have collapsed. yet when sansa praised his valor and said how good it was to see him getting strong again, both lancel and ser kevan beamed. she would have made joffrey a good queen and a better wife if he'd had the sense to love her. he wondered if his nephew was capable of loving anyone. you do look quite exquisite, child, lady olenna tyrell told sansa when she tottered up to them in a cloth-of-gold gown that must have weighed more than she did. the wind has been at your hair, though. the little old woman reached up and fussed at the loose strands, tucking them back into place and straightening sansa's hair net. i was very sorry to hear about your losses, she said as she tugged and fiddled. your brother was a terrible traitor, i know, but if we start killing men at weddings they'll be even more frightened of marriage than they are presently. there, that's better. lady olenna smiled. i am pleased to say i shall be leaving for highgarden the day after next. i have had quite enough of this smelly city, thank you. perhaps you would like to accompany me for a little visit, whilst the men are off having their war? i shall miss my margaery so dreadfully, and all her lovely ladies. your company would be such sweet solace. you are too kind, my lady, said sansa, but my place is with my lord husband. lady olenna gave tyrion a wrinkled, toothless smile. oh? forgive a silly old woman, my lord, i did not mean to steal your lovely wife. i assumed you would be off leading a lannister host against some wicked foe. a host of dragons and stags. the master of coin must remain at court to see that all the armies are paid for. to be sure. dragons and stags, that's very clever. and dwarfs pennies as well. i have heard of these dwarfs pennies. no doubt collecting those is such a dreadful chore. i leave the collecting to others, my lady. oh, do you? i would have thought you might want to tend to it yourself. we can't have the crown being cheated of its dwarfs pennies, now. can we? gods forbid. tyrion was beginning to wonder whether lord luthor tyrell had ridden off that cliff intentionally. if you will excuse us, lady olenna, it is time we were in our places. myself as well. seventy-seven courses, i daresay. don't you find that a bit excessive, my lord? i shan't eat more than three or four bites myself, but you and i are very little, aren't we? she patted sansa's hair again and said, well, off with you, child, and try to be merrier. now where have my guardsmen gone? left, right, where are you? come help me to the dais. although evenfall was still an hour away, the throne room was already a blaze of light, with torches burning in every sconce. the guests stood along the tables as heralds called out the names and titles of the lords and ladies making their entrance. pages in the royal livery escorted them down the broad central aisle. the gallery above was packed with musicians; drummers and pipers and fiddlers, strings and horns and skins. tyrion clutched sansa's arm and made the walk with a heavy waddling stride. he could feel their eyes on him, picking at the fresh new sear that had left him even uglier than he had been before. let them look, he thought as he hopped up onto his seat. let them stare and whisper until they've had their fill, i will not hide myself for their sake. the queen of thorns followed them in, shuffling along with tiny little steps. tyrion wondered which of them looked more absurd, him with sansa or the wizened little woman between her seven- foot -tall twin guardsmen. joffrey and margaery rode into the throne room on matched white chargers. pages ran before them, scattering rose petals under their hooves. the king and queen had changed for the feast as well. joffrey wore striped black-and-crimson breeches and a cloth-of-gold doublet with black satin sleeves and onyx studs. margaery had exchanged the demure gown that she had worn in the sept for one much more revealing, a confection in pale green samite with a tight-laced bodice that bared her shoulders and the tops of her small breasts. unbound, her soft brown hair tumbled over her white shoulders and down her back almost to her waist. around her brows was a slim golden crown. her smile was shy and sweet. a lovely girl, thought tyrion, and a kinder fate than my nephew deserves. the kingsguard. escorted them onto the dais, to the seats of honor beneath the shadow of the iron throne, draped for the occasion in long silk streamers of baratheon gold, lannister crimson, and tyrell green. cersei embraced margaery and kissed her cheeks. lord tywin did the same, and then lancel and ser kevan. joffrey received loving kisses from the bride's father and his two new brothers, loras and garlan. no one seemed in any great rush to kiss tyrion. when the king and queen had taken their seats, the high septon rose to lead a prayer. at least he does not drone as badly as the last one, tyrion consoled himself. he and sansa had been seated far to the king's right, beside ser garlan tyrell and his wife, the lady leonette. a dozen others sat closer to joffrey, which a pricklier man might have taken for a slight, given that he had been the king's hand only a short time past. tyrion would have been glad if there had been a hundred. let the cups be filled! joffrey proclaimed, when the gods had been given their due. his cupbearer poured a whole flagon of dark arbor red into the golden wedding chalice that lord tyrell had given him that morning. the king had to use both hands to lift it. to my wife the queen! margaery! the hall shouted back at him. margaery! margaery! to the queen! a thousand cups rang together, and the wedding feast was well and truly begun. tyrion lannister drank with the rest, emptying his cup on that first toast and signaling for it to be refilled as soon as he was seated again. the first dish was a creamy soup of mushrooms and buttered snails, served in gilded bowls. tyrion had scarcely touched the breakfast, and the wine had already gone to his head, so the food was welcome. he finished quickly. one done, seventy-six to come. seventy-seven dishes, while there are still starving children in this city, and men who would kill for a radish. they might not love the tyrells half so well if they could see us now. sansa tasted a spoonful of soup and pushed the bowl away. not to your liking, my lady? tyrion asked. there's to be so much, my lord. i have a little tummy. she fiddled nervously with her hair and looked down the table to where joffrey sat with his tyrell queen. does she wish it were her in margaery's place? tyrion frowned. even a child should have better sense. he turned away, wanting distraction, but everywhere he looked were women, fair fine beautiful happy women who belonged to other men. margaery, of course, smiling sweetly as she and joffrey shared a drink from the great seven-sided wedding chalice. her mother lady alerie, silver-haired and handsome, still proud beside mace tyrell. the queen's three young cousins, bright as birds. lord merryweather's dark-haired myrish wife with her big black sultry eyes. ellaria sand among the dornishmen (cersei had placed them at their own table, just below the dais in a place of high honor but as far from the tyrells as the width of the hall would allow), laughing at something the red viper had told her. and there was one woman, sitting almost at the foot of the third table on the left... the wife of one of the fossoways, he thought, and heavy with his child. her delicate beauty was in no way diminished by her belly, nor was her pleasure in the food and frolics. tyrion watched as her husband fed her morsels off his plate. they drank from the same cup, and would kiss often and unpredictably. whenever they did, his hand would gently rest upon her stomach, a tender and protective gesture. he wondered what sansa would do if he leaned over and kissed her right now. flinch away, most likely. or be brave and suffer through it, as was her duty. she is nothing if not dutiful, this wife of mine. if he told her that he wished to have her maidenhead tonight, she would suffer that dutifully as well, and weep no more than she had to. he called for more wine. by the time he got it, the second course was being served, a pastry coffyn filled with pork, pine nuts, and eggs. sansa ate no more than a bite of hers, as the heralds were summoning the first of the seven singers. grey-bearded hamish the harper announced that he would perform for the ears of gods and men, a song ne'er heard before in all the seven kingdoms. he called it lord renly's ride. his fingers moved across the strings of the high harp, filling the throne room with sweet sound. from his throne of bones the lord of death looked down on the murdered lord, hamish began, and went on to tell how renly, repenting his attempt to usurp his nephew's crown, had defied the lord of death himself and crossed back to the land of the living to defend the realm against his brother. and for this poor symon wound up in a bowl of brown, tyrion mused. queen margaery was teary-eyed by the end, when the shade of brave lord renly flew to highgarden to steal one last look at his true love's face. renly baratheon never repented of anything in his life, the imp told sansa, but if i'm any judge, hamish just won himself a gilded lute. the harper also gave them several more familiar songs. a rose of gold was for the tyrells, no doubt, as the rains of castamere was meant to flatter his father. maiden, mother, and crone delighted the high septon, and my lady wife pleased all the little girls with romance in their hearts, and no doubt some little boys as well. tyrion listened with half a ear, as he sampled sweetcorn fritters and hot oatbread baked with bits of date, apple, and orange, and gnawed on the rib of a wild boar. thereafter dishes and diversions succeeded one another in a staggering profusion, buoyed along upon a flood of wine and ale. hamish left them, his place taken by a smallish elderly bear who danced clumsily to pipe and drum while the wedding guests ate trout cooked in a crust of crushed almonds. moon boy mounted his stilts and strode around the tables in pursuit of lord tyrell's ludicrously fat fool butterbumps, and the lords and ladies sampled roast herons and cheese-and-onion pies. a troupe of pentoshi tumblers performed cartwheels and handstands, balanced platters on their bare feet, and stood upon each other's shoulders to form a pyramid. their feats were accompanied by crabs boiled in fiery eastern spices, trenchers filled with chunks of chopped mutton stewed in almond milk with carrots, raisins, and onions, and fish tarts fresh from the ovens, served so hot they burned the fingers. then the heralds summoned another singer; collio quaynis of tyrosh, who had a vermilion beard and an accent as ludicrous as symon had promised. collio began with his version of the dance of the dragons, which was more properly a song for two singers, male and female. tyrion suffered through it with a double helping of honey-ginger partridge and several cups of wine. a haunting ballad of two dying lovers amidst the doom of valyria might have pleased the hall more if collio had not sung it in high valyrian, which most of the guests could not speak. but bessa the barmaid won them back with its ribald lyrics. peacocks were served in their plumage, roasted whole and stuffed with dates, while collio summoned a drummer, bowed low before lord tywin, and launched into the rains of castamere. if i have to hear seven versions of that, i may go down to flea bottom and apologize to the stew. tyrion turned to his wife. so which did you prefer? sansa blinked at him. my lord? the singers. which did you prefer? i... i'm sorry, my lord. i was not listening. she was not eating, either. sansa, is aught amiss? he spoke without thinking, and instantly felt the fool. all her kin are slaughtered and she's wed to me, and i wonder what's amiss. no, my lord. she looked away from him, and feigned an unconvincing interest in moon boy pelting ser dontos with dates. four master pyromancers conjured up beasts of living flame to tear at each other with fiery claws whilst the serving men ladeled out bowls of blandissory, a mixture of beef broth and boiled wine sweetened with honey and dotted with blanched almonds and chunks of capon. then came some strolling pipers and clever dogs and sword swallowers, with buttered pease, chopped nuts, and slivers of swan poached in a sauce of saffron and peaches. (not swan again, tyrion muttered, remembering his supper with his sister on the eve of battle.) a juggler kept a half- dozen swords and axes whirling through the air as skewers of blood sausage were brought sizzling to the tables, a juxtaposition that tyrion thought passing clever, though not perhaps in the best of taste. the heralds blew their trumpets. to sing for the golden lute, one cried, we give you galyeon ofcuy. galyeon was a big barrel-chested man with a black beard, a bald head, and a thunderous voice that filled every comer of the throne room. he brought no fewer than six musicians to play for him. noble lords and ladies fair, i sing but one song for you this night, he announced. it is the song of the blackwater, and how a realm was saved. the drummer began a slow ominous beat. the dark lord brooded high in his tower, galyeon began, in a castle as black as the night. black was his hair and black was his soul, the musicians chanted in unison. a flute came in. he feasted on bloodlust and envy, and filled his cup full up with spite, sang galyeon. my brother once ruled seven kingdoms, he said to his harridan wife. i'll take what was his and make it all mine. let his son feel the point of my knife. a brave young boy with hair of gold, his players chanted, as a woodharp and a fiddle began to play. if i am ever hand again, the first thing i'll do is hang all the singers, said tyrion, too loudly. lady leonette laughed lightly beside him, and ser garlan leaned over to say, a valiant deed unsung is no less valiant. the dark lord assembled his legions, they gathered around him like crows. and thirsty for blood they boarded their ships... ... and cut off poor tyrion's nose, tyrion finished. lady leonette giggled. perhaps you should be a singer, my lord. you rhyme as well as this galyeon. no, my lady, ser garlan said. my lord of lannister was made to do great deeds, not to sing of them. but for his chain and his wildfire, the foe would have been across the river. and if tyrion's wildlings had not slain most of lord stannis's scouts, we would never have been able to take him unawares. his words made tyrion feel absurdly grateful, and helped to mollify him as galyeon sang endless verses about the valor of the boy king and his mother, the golden queen. she never did that, sansa blurted out suddenly. never believe anything you hear in a song, my lady. tyrion summoned a serving man to refill their wine cups. soon it was full night outside the tall windows, and still galyeon sang on. his song had seventy-seven verses, though it seemed more like a thousand. one for every guest in the hall. tyrion drank his way through the last twenty or so, to help resist the urge to stuff mushrooms in his ears. by the time the singer had taken his bows, some of the guests were drunk enough to begin providing unintentional entertainments of their own. grand maester pycelle fell asleep while dancers from the summer isles swirled and spun in robes made of bright feathers and smoky silk. roundels of elk stuffed with ripe blue cheese were being brought out when one of lord rowan's knights stabbed a dornishman. the gold cloaks dragged them both away, one to a cell to rot and the other to get sewn up by maester ballabar. tyrion was toying with a leche of brawn, spiced with cinnamon, cloves, sugar, and almond milk, when king joffrey lurched suddenly to his feet. bring on my royal jousters! he shouted in a voice thick with wine, clapping his hands together. my nephew is drunker than i am, tyrion thought as the gold cloaks opened the great doors at the end of the hall. from where he sat, he could only see the tops of two striped lances as a pair of riders entered side by side. a wave of laughter followed them down the center aisle toward the king. they must be riding ponies, he concluded... until they came into full view. the jousters were a pair of dwarfs. one was mounted on an ugly grey dog, long of leg and heavy of jaw. the other rode an immense spotted sow. painted wooden armor clattered and clacked as the little knights bounced up and down in their saddles. their shields were bigger than they were, and they wrestled manfully with their lances as they clomped along, swaying this way and that and eliciting gusts of mirth, one knight was all in gold, with a black stag painted on his shield; the other wore grey and white, and bore a wolf device. their mounts were barded likewise. tyrion glanced along the dais at all the laughing faces. joffrey was red and breathless, tommen was hooting and hopping up and down in his seat, cersei was chuckling politely, and even lord tywin looked mildly amused. of all those at the high table, only sansa stark was not smiling. he could have loved her for that, but if truth be told the stark girl's eyes were far away, as if she had not even seen the ludicrous riders loping toward her. the dwarfs are not to blame, tyrion decided. when they are done, i shall compliment them and give them a fat purse of silver. and come the morrow, i will find whoever planned this little diversion and arrange for a different sort of thanks. when the dwarfs reined up beneath the dais to salute the king, the wolf knight dropped his shield. as he leaned over to grab for it, the stag knight lost control of his heavy lance and slammed him across the back. the wolf knight fell off his pig, and his lance tumbled over and bo inked his foe on the head. they both wound up on the floor in a great tangle. when they rose, both tried to mount the dog. much shouting and shoving followed. finally they regained their saddles, only mounted on each other's steed, holding the wrong shield and facing backward. it took some time to sort that out, but in the end they spurred to opposite ends of the hall, and wheeled about for the tilt. as the lords and ladies guffawed and giggled, the little men came together with a crash and a clatter, and the wolf knight's lance struck the helm of the stag knight and knocked his head clean off. it spun through the air spattering blood to land in the lap of lord gyles. the headless dwarf careened around the tables, flailing his arms. dogs barked, women shrieked, and moon boy made a great show of swaying perilously back and forth on his stilts, until lord gyles pulled a dripping red melon out of the shattered helm, at which point the stag knight poked his face up out of his armor, and another storm of laughter rocked the hall. the knights waited for it to die, circled around each other trading colorful insults, and were about to separate for another joust when the dog threw its rider to the floor and mounted the sow. the huge pig squealed in distress, while the wedding guests squealed with laughter, especially when the stag knight leapt onto the wolf knight, let down his wooden breeches, and started to pump away frantically at the other's nether portions. i yield, i yield, the dwarf on the bottom screamed. good ser, put up your sword! i would, i would, if you'll stop moving the sheath! the dwarf on the top replied, to the merriment of all. joffrey was snorting wine from both nostrils. gasping, he lurched to his feet, almost knocking over his tall two-handed chalice. a champion, he shouted. we have a champion! the hall began to quiet when it was seen that the king was speaking. the dwarfs untangled, no doubt anticipating the royal thanks. not a true champion, though, said joff a true champion defeats all challengers. the king climbed up on the table. who else will challenge our tiny champion? with a gleeful smile, he turned toward tyrion. uncle! you'll defend the honor of my realm, won't you? you can ride the pig! the laughter crashed over him like a wave. tyrion lannister did not remember rising, nor climbing on his chair, but he found himself standing on the table. the hall was a torchlit blur of leering faces. he twisted his face into the most hideous mockery of a smile the seven kingdoms had ever seen. your grace, he called, i'll ride the pig... but only if you ride the dog! joff scowled, confused. me? i'm no dwarf. why me? stepped right into the cut, joff why, you're the only man in the hall that i'm certain of defeating! he could not have said which was sweeter; the instant of shocked silence, the gale of laughter that followed, or the look of blind rage on his nephew's face. the dwarf hopped back to the floor well satisfied, and by the time he looked back ser osmund and ser meryn were helping joff climb down as well. when he noticed cersei glaring at him, tyrion blew her a kiss. it was a relief when the musicians began to play. the tiny jousters led dog and sow from the hall, the guests returned to their trenchers of brawn, and tyrion called for another cup of wine. but suddenly he felt ser garlan's hand on his sleeve. my lord, beware, the knight warned. the king. tyrion turned in his seat. joffrey was almost upon him, red-faced and staggering, wine slopping over the rim of the great golden wedding chalice he carried in both hands. your grace, was all he had time to say before the king upended the chalice over his head. the wine washed down over his face in a red torrent. it drenched his hair, stung his eyes, burned in his wound, ran down his cheeks, and soaked the velvet of his new doublet. how do you like that, imp? joffrey mocked. tyrion's eyes were on fire. he dabbed at his face with the back of a sleeve and tried to blink the world back into clarity. that was ill done, your grace, he heard ser garlan say quietly. not at all, ser garlan. tyrion dare not let this grow any uglier than it was, not here, with half the realm looking on. not every king would think to honor a humble subject by serving him from his own royal chalice. a pity the wine spilled. it didn't spill, said joffrey, too graceless to take the retreat tyrion offered him. and i wasn't serving you, either. queen margaery appeared suddenly at joffrey' s elbow. my sweet king, the tyre 11 girl entreated, come, return to your place, there's another singer waiting. alaric of eysen, said lady olenna tyrell, leaning on her cane and taking no more notice of the wine-soaked dwarf than her granddaughter had done. i do so hope he plays us'the rains of castamere.' it has been an hour, i've forgotten how it goes. ser addam has a toast he wants to make as well, said margaery. your grace, please. i have no wine, joffrey declared. how can i drink a toast if i have no wine? uncle imp, you can serve me. since you won't joust you'll be my cupbearer. i would be most honored. it's not meant to be an honor! joffrey screamed. bend down and pick up my chalice. tyrion did as he was bid, but as he reached for the handle joff kicked the chalice through his legs. pick it up! are you as clumsy as you are ugly? he had to crawl under the table to find the thing. good, now fill it with wine. he claimed a flagon from a serving girl and filled the goblet three-quarters full. no, on your knees, dwarf. kneeling, tyrion raised up the heavy cup, wondering if he was about to get a second bath. but joffrey took the wedding chalice one- handed, drank deep, and set it on the table. you can get up now, uncle. his legs cramped as he tried to rise, and almost spilled him again. tyrion had to grab hold of a chair to steady himself. ser garlan lent him a hand. joffrey laughed, and cersei as well. then others. he could not see who, but he heard them. your grace. lord tywin's voice was impeccably correct. they are bringing in the pie. your sword is needed. the pie? joffrey took his queen by the hand. come, my lady, it's the pie. the guests stood, shouting and applauding and smashing their wine cups together as the great pie made its slow way down the length of the hall, wheeled along by a half-dozen beaming cooks. two yards across it was, crusty and golden brown, and they could hear squeaks and thumpings coming from inside it. tyrion pulled himself back into his chair. all he needed now was for a dove to shit on him and his day would be complete. the wine had soaked through his doublet and smallclothes, and he could feel the wetness against his skin. he ought to change, but no one was permitted to leave the feast until the time came for the bedding ceremony. that was still a good twenty or thirty dishes off, he judged. king joffrey and his queen met the pie below the dais. as jo ff drew his sword, margaery laid a hand on his arm to restrain him. widow's wail was not meant for slicing pies. true. joffrey lifted his voice. ser ilyn, your sword! from the shadows at the back of the hall, ser ilyn payne appeared. the specter at the feast, thought tyrion as he watched the king's justice stride forward, gaunt and grim. he had been too young to have known ser ilyn before he'd lost his tongue. he would have been a different man in those days, but now the silence is as much a part of him as those hollow eyes, that rusty chainmail shirt, and the greatsword on his back. ser ilyn bowed before the king and queen, reached back over his shoulder, and drew forth six feet of ornate silver bright with runes. he knelt to offer the huge blade to joffrey, hilt first; points of red fire winked from ruby eyes on the pommel, a chunk of dragonglass carved in the shape of a grinning skull. sansa stirred in her seat. what sword is that? tyrion's eyes still stung from the wine. he blinked and looked again. ser ilyn's greatsword was as long and wide as ice, but it was too silverybright; valyrian steel had a darkness to it, a smokiness in its soul. sansa clutched his arm. what has ser ilyn done with my father's sword? i should have sent ice back to robb stark, tyrion thought. he glanced at his father, but lord tywin was watching the king. joffrey and margaery joined hands to lift the greatsword and swung it down together in a silvery arc. when the piecrust broke, the doves burst forth in a swirl of white feathers, scattering in every direction, flapping for the windows and the rafters. a roar of delight went up from the benches, and the fiddlers and pipers in the gallery began to play a sprightly tune. jo ff took his bride in his arms, and whirled her around merrily. a serving man placed a slice of hot pigeon pie in front of tyrion and covered it with a spoon of lemon cream. the pigeons were well and truly cooked in this pie, but he found them no more appetizing than the white ones fluttering about the hall. sansa was not eating either. you're deathly pale, my lady, tyrion said. you need a breath of cool air, and i need a fresh doublet. he stood and offered her his hand. come. but before they could make their retreat, joffrey was back. uncle, where are you going? you're my cupbearer, remember? i need to change into fresh garb, your grace. may i have your leave? no. i like the look of you this way. serve me my wine. the king's chalice was on the table where he'd left it. tyrion had to climb back onto his chair to reach it. jo ff yanked it from his hands and drank long and deep, his throat working as the wine ran purple down his chin. my lord, margaery said, we should return to our places. lord buckler wants to toast us. my uncle hasn't eaten his pigeon pie. holding the chalice onehanded, joff jammed his other into tyrion's pie. it's ill luck not to eat the pie, he scolded as he filled his mouth with hot spiced pigeon. see, it's good. spitting out flakes of crust, he coughed and helped himself to another fistful. dry, though. needs washing down. joff took a swallow of wine and coughed again, more violently. i want to see, kof, see you ride that, kof kof, pig, uncle. i want. .. his words broke up in a fit of coughing. margaery looked at him with concern. your grace? it's, kof, the pie, noth - kof, pie. joff took another drink, or tried to, but all the wine came spewing back out when another spate of coughing doubled him over. his face was turning red. i, kof, i can't, kof kof kof kof... the chalice slipped from his hand and dark red wine went running across the dais. he's choking, queen margaery gasped. her grandmother moved to her side. help the poor boy! the queen of thorns screeched, in a voice ten times her size. dolts! will you all stand about gaping? help your king! ser garlan shoved tyrion aside and began to pound joffrey on the back. ser osmund kettleblack ripped open the king's collar. a fearful high thin sound emerged from the boy's throat, the sound of a man trying to suck a river through a reed; then it stopped, and that was more terrible still. turn him over! mace tyrell bellowed at everyone and no one. turn him over, shake him by his heels! a different voice was calling, water, give him some water! the high septon began to pray loudly. grand maester pycelle shouted for someone to help him back to his chambers, to fetch his potions. joffrey began to claw at his throat, his nails tearing bloody gouges in the flesh. beneath the skin, the muscles stood out hard as stone. prince tommen was screaming and crying. he is going to die, tyrion realized. he felt curiously calm, though pandemonium raged all about him. they were pounding joff on the back again, but his face was only growing darker. dogs were barking, children were wailing, men were shouting useless advice at each other. half the wedding guests were on their feet, some shoving at each other for a better view, others rushing for the doors in their haste to get away. ser meryn pried the king's mouth open to jam a spoon down his throat. as he did, the boy's eyes met tyrion's. he has jaime's eyes. only he had never seen jaime look so scared. the boy's only thirteen. joffrey was making a dry clacking noise, trying to speak. his eyes bulged white with terror, and he lifted a hand... reaching for his uncle, or pointing... is he begging my forgiveness, or does he think i can save him? noooo, cersei wailed, father help him, someone help him, my son, my son... tyrion found himself thinking of robb stark. my own wedding is looking much better in hindsight. he looked to see how sansa was taking this, but there was so much confusion in the hall that he could not find her. but his eyes fell on the wedding chalice, forgotten on the floor. he went and scooped it up. there was still a half-inch of deep purple wine in the bottom of it. tyrion considered it a moment, then poured it on the floor. margaery tyrell was weeping in her grandmother's arms as the old lady said, be brave, be brave. most of the musicians had fled, but one last flutist in the gallery was blowing a dirge. in the rear of the throne room scuffling had broken out around the doors, and the guests were trampling on each other. ser addam's gold cloaks moved in to restore order. guests were rushing headlong out into the night, some weeping, some stumbling and retching, others white with fear. it occurred to tyrion belatedly that it might be wise to leave himself. when he heard cersei's scream, he knew that it was over. i should leave. now. instead he waddled toward her. his sister sat in a puddle of wine, cradling her son's body. her gown was torn and stained, her face white as chalk. a thin black dog crept up beside her, sniffing at joffrey's corpse. the boy is gone, cersei, lord tywin said. he put his gloved hand on his daughter's shoulder as one of his guardsmen shooed away the dog. unhand him now. let him go. she did not hear. it took two kingsguard to pry loose her fingers, so the body of king joffrey baratheon could slide limp and lifeless to the floor. the high septon knelt beside him. father above, judge our good king joffrey justly, he intoned, beginning the prayer for the dead. margaery tyrell began to sob, and tyrion heard her mother lady alerie saying, he choked, sweetling. he choked on the pie. it was naught to do with you. he choked. we all saw. he did not choke. cersei's voice was sharp as ser ilyn's sword. my son was poisoned. she looked to the white knights standing helplessly around her. kingsguard, do your duty. my lady? said ser loras tyrell, uncertain. arrest my brother, she commanded him. he did this, the dwarf. him and his little wife. they killed my son. your king. take them! take them both! tyrion, ser kevan lannister said wearily, if you are indeed innocent of joffrey's death, you should have no difficulty proving it at trial. tyrion turned from the window. who is to judge me? justice belongs to the throne. the king is dead, but your father remains hand. since it is his own son who stands accused and his grandson who was the victim, he has asked lord tyrell and prince oberyn to sit in judgment with him. tyrion was scarcely reassured. mace tyrell had been joffrey's goodfather, however briefly, and the red viper was... well, a snake. will i be allowed to demand trial by battle? i would not advise that. why not? it had saved him in the vale, why not here? answer me, uncle. will i be allowed a trial by battle, and a champion to prove my innocence? certainly, if such is your wish. however, you had best know that your sister means to name ser gregor clegane as her champion, in the event of such a trial. the bitch checks my moves before i make them. a pity she didn't choose a kettleblack. bronn would make short work of any of the three brothers, but the mountain that rides was a kettle of a different color. i shall need to sleep on this. i need to speak with bronn, and soon. he didn't want to think about what this was like to cost him. bronn had a lofty notion of what his skin was worth. does cersei have witnesses against me? more every day. then i must have witnesses of my own. tell me who you would have, and ser addam will send the watch to bring them to the trial. i would sooner find them myself. you stand accused of regicide and kinslaying. do you truly imagine you will be allowed to come and go as you please? ser kevan waved at the table. you have quill, ink, and parchment. write the names of such witnesses as you require, and i shall do all in my power to produce them, you have my word as a lannister. but you shall not leave this tower, except to go to trial. tyrion would not demean himself by begging. will you permit my squire to come and go? the boy podrick payne? certainly, if that is your wish. i shall send him to you. do so. sooner would be better than later, and now would be better than sooner. he waddled to the writing table. but when he heard the door open, he turned back and said, uncle? ser kevan paused. yes? i did not do this. i wish i could believe that, tyrion. when the door closed, tyrion lannister pulled himself up into the chair, sharpened a quill, and pulled a blank parchment. who will speak for me? he dipped his quill in the inkpot. the sheet was still maiden when podrick payne appeared, sometime later. my lord, the boy said. tyrion put down the quill. find bronn and bring him at once. tell him there's gold in it, more gold than he's ever dreamt of, and see that you don't return without him. yes, my lord. i mean, no. i won't. return. he went. he had not returned by sunset, nor by moonrise. tyrion fell asleep in the window seat to wake stiff and sore at dawn. a serving man brought porridge and apples to break his fast, with a horn of ale. he ate at the table, the blank parchment before him. an hour later, the serving man returned for the bowl. have you seen my squire? tyrion asked him. the man shook his head. sighing, he turned back to the table, and dipped the quill again. sansa, he wrote upon the parchment. he sat staring at the name, his teeth clenched so hard they hurt. assuming joffrey had not simply choked to death on a bit of food, which even tyrion found hard to swallow, sansa must have poisoned him. joff practically put his cup down in her lap, and he'd given her ample reason. any doubts tyrion might have had vanished when his wife did. one flesh, one heart, one soul. his mouth twisted. she wasted no time proving how much those vows meant to her, did she? well, what did you expect, dwarf? and yet... where would sansa have gotten poison? he could not believe the girl had acted alone in this. do i really want to find her? would the judges believe that tyrion's child bride had poisoned a king without her husband's knowledge? i wouldn't. cersei would insist that they had done the deed together. even so, he gave the parchment to his uncle the next day. ser kevan frowned at it. lady sansa is your only witness? i will think of others in time. best think of them now. the judges mean to begin the trial three days hence. that's too soon. you have me shut up here under guard, how am i to find witnesses to my innocence? your sister's had no difficulty finding witnesses to your guilt. ser kevan rolled up the parchment. ser addam has men hunting for your wife. varys has offered a hundred stags for word of her whereabouts, and a hundred dragons for the girl herself. if the girl can be found she will be found, and i shall bring her to you. i see no harm in husband and wife sharing the same cell and giving comfort to one another. you are too kind. have you seen my squire? i sent him to you yesterday. did he not come? he came, tyrion admitted, and then he went. i shall send him to you again. but it was the next morning before podrick payne returned. he stepped inside the room hesitantly, with fear written all over his face. bronn came in behind him. the sellsword knight wore a jerkin studded with silver and a heavy riding cloak, with a pair of fine-tooled leather gloves thrust through his swordbelt. one look at bronn' s face gave tyrion a queasy feeling in the pit of his stomach. it took you long enough. the boy begged, or i wouldn't have come at all. i am expected at castle stokeworth for supper. stokeworth? tyrion hopped from the bed. and pray, what is there for you in stokeworth? a bride. bronn smiled like a wolf contemplating a lost lamb. i'm to wed lollys the day after next. lollys. perfect, bloody perfect. lady tanda's lackwit daughter gets a knightly husband and a father of sorts for the bastard in her belly, and ser bronn of the blackwater climbs another rung. it had cersei's stinking fingers all over it. my bitch sister has sold you a lame horse. the girl's dim-witted. if i wanted wits, id marry you. lollys is big with another man's child. and when she pops him out, i'll get her big with mine. she's not even heir to stokeworth, tyrion pointed out. she has an elder sister. falyse. a married sister. married ten years, and still barren, said bronn. her lord husband shuns her bed. it's said he prefers virgins. he could prefer goats and it wouldn't matter. the lands will still pass to his wife when lady tanda dies. unless falyse should die before her mother. tyrion wondered whether cersei had any notion of the sort of serpent she'd given lady tanda to suckle. and if she does, would she care? why are you here, then? bronn shrugged. you once told me that if anyone ever asked me to sell you out, you'd double the price. yes. is it two wives you want, or two castles? one of each would serve. but if you want me to kill gregor clegane for you, it had best be a damned big castle. the seven kingdoms were full of highborn maidens, but even the oldest, poorest, and ugliest spinster in the realm would balk at wedding such lowborn scum as bronn. unless she was soft of body and soft of head, with a fatherless child in her belly from having been raped half a hundred times. lady tanda had been so desperate to find a husband for lollys that she had even pursued tyrion for a time, and that had been before half of king's landing enjoyed her. no doubt cersei had sweetened the offer somehow, and bronn was a knight now, which made him a suitable match for a younger daughter of a minor house. i find myself woefully short of both castles and highborn maidens at the moment, tyrion admitted. but i can offer you gold and gratitude, as before. i have gold. what can i buy with gratitude? you might be surprised. a lannister pays his debts. your sister is a lannister too. my lady wife is heir to winterfell. should i emerge from this with my head still on my shoulders, i may one day rule the north in her name. i could carve you out a big piece of it. if and when and might be, said bronn. and it's bloody cold up there. lollys is soft, warm, and close. i could be poking her two nights hence. not a prospect i would relish. is that so? bronn grinned. admit it, imp. given a choice between fucking lollys and fighting the mountain, you'd have your breeches down and cock up before a man could blink. he knows me too bloody well. tyrion tried a different tack. i'd heard that ser gregor was wounded on the red fork, and again at duskendale. the wounds are bound to slow him. bronn looked annoyed. he was never fast. only freakish big and freakish strong. i'll grant you, he's quicker than you'd expect for a man that size. he has a monstrous long reach, and doesn't seem to feel blows the way a normal man would. does he frighten you so much? asked tyrion, hoping to provoke him. if he didn't frighten me, i'd be a bloody fool. bronn gave a shrug. might be i could take him. dance around him until he was so tired of hacking at me that he couldn't lift his sword. get him off his feet somehow. when they're flat on their backs it don't matter how tall they are. even so, it's chancy. one misstep and i'm dead. why should i risk it? i like you well enough, ugly little whoreson that you are... but if i fight your battle, i lose either way. either the mountain spills my guts, or i kill him and lose stokeworth. i sell my sword, i don't give it away. i'm not your bloody brother. no, said tyrion sadly. you're not. he waved a hand. begone, then. run to stokeworth and lady lollys. may you find more joy in your marriage bed than i ever found in mine. bronn hesitated at the door. what will you do, imp? kill gregor myself. won't that make for a jolly song? i hope i hear them sing it. bronn grinned one last time, and walked out of the door, the castle, and his life. pod shuffled his feet. i'm sorry. why? is it your fault that bronn's an insolent black-hearted rogue? he's always been an insolent black-hearted rogue. that's what i liked about him. tyrion poured himself a cup of wine and took it to the window seat. outside the day was grey and rainy, but the prospect was still more cheerful than his. he could send podrick payne questing after shagga, he supposed, but there were so many hiding places in the deep of the kingswood that outlaws often evaded capture for decades. and pod sometimes has difficulty finding the kitchens when i send him down for cheese. timett son of timett would likely be back in the mountains of the moon by now. and despite what he'd told bronn, going up against ser gregor clegane in his own person would be a bigger farce than joffrey's jousting dwarfs. he did not intend to die with gales of laughter ringing in his ears. so much for trial by combat. ser kevan paid him another call later that day, and again the day after. sansa had not been found, his uncle informed him politely. nor the fool ser dontos, who'd vanished the same night. did tyrion have any more witnesses he wished to summon? he did not. how do i bloody well prove i didn't poison the wine, when a thousand people saw me fill joff s cup? he did not sleep at all that night. instead he lay in the dark, staring up at the canopy and counting his ghosts. he saw tysha smiling as she kissed him, saw sansa naked and shivering in fear. he saw joffrey clawing his throat, the blood running down his neck as his face turned black. he saw cersei's eyes, bronn's wolfish smile, shae's wicked grin. even thought of shae could not arouse him. he fondled himself, thinking that perhaps if he woke his cock and satisfied it, he might rest more easily afterward, but it was no good. and then it was dawn, and time for his trial to begin. it was not ser kevan who came for him that morning, but ser addam marbrand with a dozen gold cloaks. tyrion had broken his fast on boiled eggs, burned bacon, and fried bread, and dressed in his finest. ser addam, he said. i had thought my father might send the kingsguard to escort me to trial. i am still a member of the royal family, am i not? you are, my lord, but i fear that most of the kingsguard stand witness against you. lord tywin felt it would not be proper for them to serve as your guards. gods forbid we do anything improper. please, lead on. he was to be tried in the throne room, where joffrey had died. as ser addam marched him through the towering bronze doors and down the long carpet, he felt the eyes upon him. hundreds had crowded in to see him judged. at least he hoped that was why they had come. for all i know, they're all witnesses against me. he spied queen margaery up in the gallery, pale and beautiful in her mourning. twice wed and twice widowed, and only sixteen. her mother stood tall to one side of her, her grandmother small on the other, with her ladies in waiting and her father's household knights packing the rest of the gallery. the dais still stood beneath the empty iron throne, though all but one table had been removed. behind it sat stout lord mace tyre 11 in a gold mantle over green, and slender prince oberyn martell in flowing robes of striped orange, yellow, and scarlet. lord tywin lannister sat between them. perhaps there's hope for me yet. the dornishman and the highgardener despised each other. if i can find a way to use that... the high septon began with a prayer, asking the father above to guide them to justice. when he was done the father below leaned forward to say, tyrion, did you kill king joffrey? he would not waste a heartbeat. no. well, that's a relief, said oberyn martell dryly. did sansa stark do it, then? lord tyrell demanded. i would have, if i'd been her. yet wherever sansa was and whatever her part in this might have been, she remained his wife. he had wrapped the cloak of his protection about her shoulders, though he'd had to stand on a fool's back to do it. the gods killed joffrey. he choked on his pigeon pie. lord tyrell reddened. you would blame the bakers? them, or the pigeons, just leave me out of it. tyrion heard nervous laughter, and knew he'd made a mistake. guard your tongue, you little fool, before it digs your grave. there are witnesses against you, lord tywin said. we shall hear them first. then you may present your own witnesses. you are to speak only with our leave. there was naught that tyrion could do but nod. ser addam had told it true; the first man ushered in was ser balon swann of the kingsguard. lord hand, he began, after the high septon had sworn him to speak only truth, i had the honor to fight beside your son on the bridge of ships. he is a brave man for all his size, and i will not believe he did this thing. a murmur went through the hall, and tyrion wondered what mad game cersei was playing. why offer a witness that believes me innocent? he soon learned. ser balon spoke reluctantly of how he had pulled tyrion away from joffrey on the day of the riot. he did strike his grace, that's so. it was a fit of wroth, no more. a summer storm. the mob near killed us all. in the days of the targaryens, a man who struck one of the blood royal would lose the hand he struck him with, observed the red viper of dome. did the dwarf regrow his little hand, or did you white swords forget your duty? he was of the blood royal himself, ser balon answered. and the king's hand beside. no, lord tywin said. he was acting hand, in my stead. ser meryn trant was pleased to expand on ser balon's account, when he took his place as witness. he knocked the king to the ground and began kicking him. he shouted that it was unjust that his grace had escaped unharmed from the mobs. tyrion began to grasp his sister's plan. she began with a man known to be honest, and milked him for all he would give. every witness to follow will tell a worse tale, until i seem as bad as maegor the cruel and aerys the mad together, with a pinch of aegon the unworthy for spice. ser meryn went on to relate how tyrion had stopped joffrey's chastisement of sansa stark. the dwarf asked his grace if he knew what had happened to aerys targaryen. when ser boros spoke up in defense of the king, the imp threatened to have him killed. blount himself came next, to echo that sorry tale. whatever mislike ser boros might harbor toward cersei for dismissing him from the kingsguard, he said the words she wanted all the same. tyrion could no longer hold his tongue. tell the judges what joffrey was doing, why don't you? the big jowly man glared at him. you told your savages to kill me if i opened my mouth, that's what i'll tell them. tyrion, lord tywin said. you are to speak only when we call upon you. take this for a warning. tyrion subsided, seething. the kettleblacks came next, all three of them in turn. osney and osfryd told the tale of his supper with cersei before the battle of the blackwater, and of the threats he'd made. he told her grace that he meant to do her harm, said ser osfryd. to hurt her. his brother osney elaborated. he said he would wait for a day when she was happy, and make her joy turn to ashes in her mouth. neither mentioned alayaya. ser osmund kettleblack, a vision of chivalry in immaculate scale armor and white wool cloak, swore that king joffrey had long known that his uncle tyrion meant to murder him. it was the day they gave me the white cloak, my lords, he told the judges. that brave boy said to me, 'good ser osmund, guard me well, for my uncle loves me not. he means to be king in my place. that was more than tyrion could stomach. liar! he took two steps forward before the gold cloaks dragged him back. lord tywin frowned. must we have you chained hand and foot like a common brigand? tyrion gnashed his teeth. a second mistake, fool, fool, fool of a dwarf. keep your calm or you're doomed. no. i beg your pardons, my lords. his lies angered me. his truths, you mean, said cersei. father, i beg you to put him in fetters, for your own protection. you see how he is. i see he's a dwarf, said prince oberyn. the day i fear a dwarfs wrath is the day i drown myself in a cask of red. we need no fetters. lord tywin glanced at the windows, and rose. the hour grows late. we shall resume on the morrow. that night, alone in his tower cell with a blank parchment and a cup of wine, tyrion found himself thinking of his wife. not sansa; his first wife, tysha. the whore wife, not the wolf wife. her love for him had been pretense, and yet he had believed, and found joy in that belief. give me sweet lies, and keep your bitter truths. he drank his wine and thought of shae. later, when ser kevan paid his nightly visit, tyrion asked for varys. you believe the eunuch will speak in your defense? i won't know until i have talked with him. send him here, uncle, if you would be so good. as you wish. maesters ballabar and frenken opened the second day of trial. they had opened king joffrey's noble corpse as well, they swore, and found no morsel of pigeon pie nor any other food lodged in the royal throat. it was poison that killed him, my lords, said ballabar, as frenken nodded gravely. then they brought forth grand maester pycelle, leaning heavily on a twisted cane and shaking as he walked, a few white hairs sprouting from his long chicken's neck. he had grown too frail to stand, so the judges permitted a chair to be brought in for him, and a table as well. on the table were laid a number of small jars. pycelle was pleased to put a name to each. greycap, he said in a quavery voice, from the toadstool. nightshade, sweetsleep, demon's dance. this is blindeye. widow's blood, this one is called, for the color. a cruel potion. it shuts down a man's bladder and bowels, until he drowns in his own poisons. this wolfsbane, here basilisk venom, and this one the tears of lys. yes. i know them all. the imp tyrion lannister stole them from my chambers, when he had me falsely imprisoned. pycelle, tyrion called out, risking his father's wrath, could any of these poisons choke off a man's breath? no. for that, you must turn to a rarer poison. when i was a boy at the citadel, my teachers named it simply the strangler. but this rare poison was not found, was it? no, my lord. pycelle blinked at him. you used it all to kill the noblest child the gods ever put on this good earth. tyrion's anger overwhelmed his sense. joffrey was cruel and stupid, but i did not kill him. have my head off if you like, i had no hand in my nephew's death. silence! lord tywin said. i have told you thrice. the next time, you shall be gagged and chained. after pycelle came the procession, endless and wearisome. lords and ladies and noble knights, highborn and humble alike, they had all been present at the wedding feast, had all seen joffrey choke, his face turning as black as a dornish plum. lord redwyne, lord celtigar, and ser flement brax had heard tyrion threaten the king; two serving men, a juggler, lord gyles, ser hobber redwyne, and ser philip foote had observed him fill the wedding chalice; lady merryweather swore that she had seen the dwarf drop something into the king's wine while joff and margaery were cutting the pie; old estermont, young peckledon, the singer galyeon of cuy, and the squires morros and jothos slynt told how tyrion had picked up the chalice as joff was dying and poured out the last of the poisoned wine onto the floor. when did i make so many enemies? lady merryweather was all but a stranger. tyrion wondered if she was blind or bought. at least galyeon of cuy had not set his account to music, or else there might have been seventy-seven bloody verses to it. when his uncle called that night after supper, his manner was cold and distant. he thinks i did it too. do you have witnesses for us? ser kevan asked him. not as such, no. unless you've found my wife. his uncle shook his head. it would seem the trial is going very badly for you. oh, do you think so? i hadn't noticed. tyrion fingered his scar. varys has not come. nor will he. on the morrow he testifies against you. lovely. i see. he shifted in his seat. i am curious. you were always a fair man, uncle. what convinced you? why steal pycelle's poisons, if not to use them? ser kevan said bluntly. and lady merryweather saw - - nothing! there was nothing to see. but how do i prove that? how do i prove anything, penned up here? perhaps the time has come for you to confess. even through the thick stone walls of the red keep, tyrion could hear the steady wash of rain. say that again, uncle? i could swear you urged me to confess. if you were to admit your guilt before the throne and repent of your crime, your father would withhold the sword. you would be permitted to take the black. tyrion laughed in his face. those were the same terms cersei offered eddard stark. we all know how that ended. your father had no part in that. that much was true, at least. castle black teems with murderers, thieves and rapists, tyrion said, but i don't recall meeting many regicides while i was there. you expect me to believe that if i admit to being a kins layer and kingslayer, my father will simply nod, forgive me, and pack me off to the wall with some warm woolen smallclothes. he hooted rudely. naught was said of forgiveness, ser kevan said sternly. a confession would put this matter to rest. it is for that reason your father sends me with this offer. thank him kindly for me, uncle, said tyrion, but tell him i am not presently in a confessing mood. were i you, i'd change my mood. your sister wants your head, and lord tyrell at least is inclined to give it to her. so one of my judges has already condemned me, without hearing a word in my defense? it was no more than he expected. will i still be allowed to speak and present witnesses? you have no witnesses, his uncle reminded him. tyrion, if you are guilty of this enormity, the wall is a kinder fate than you deserve. and if you are blameless... there is fighting in the north, i know, but even so it will be a safer place for you than king's landing, whatever the outcome of this trial. the mob is convinced of your guilt. were you so foolish as to venture out into the streets, they would tear you limb from limb. i can see how much that prospect upsets you. you are my brother's son. you might remind him of that. do you think he would allow you to take the black if you were not his own blood, and joanna's? tywin seems a hard man to you, i know, but he is no harder than he's had to be. our own father was gentle and amiable, but so weak his bannermen mocked him in their cups. some saw fit to defy him openly. other lords borrowed our gold and never troubled to repay it. at court they japed of toothless lions. even his mistress stole from him. a woman scarcely one step above a whore, and she helped herself to my mother's jewels! it fell to tywin to restore house lannister to its proper place just as it fell to him to rule this realm, when he was no more than twenty. he bore that heavy burden for twenty years, and all it earned him was a mad king's envy. instead of the honor he deserved, he was made to suffer slights beyond count, yet he gave the seven kingdoms peace, plenty, and justice. he is a just man. you would be wise to trust him. tyrion blinked in astonishment. ser kevan had always been solid, stolid, pragmatic; he had never heard him speak with such fervor before. you love him. he is my brother. i... i will think on what you've said. think carefully, then. and quickly. he thought of little else that night, but come morning was no closer to deciding if his father could be trusted. a servant brought him porridge and honey to break his fast, but all he could taste was bile at the thought of confession. they will call me kins layer till the end of my days. for a thousand years or more, if i am remembered at all, it will be as the monstrous dwarf who poisoned his young nephew at his wedding feast. the thought made him so bloody angry that he flung the bowl and spoon across the room and left a smear of porridge on the wall. ser addam marbrand looked at it curiously when he came to escort tyrion to trial, but had the good grace not to inquire. lord varys, the herald said, master of whisperers. powdered, primped, and smelling of rosewater, the spider rubbed his hands one over the other all the time he spoke. washing my life away. tyrion thought, as he listened to the eunuch's mournful account of how the imp had schemed to part joffrey from the hound's protection and spoken with bronn of the benefits of having tommen as king. half-truths are worth more than outright lies. and unlike the others, varys had documents; parchments painstakingly filled with notes, details, dates, whole conversations. so much material that its recitation took all day, and so much of it damning. varys confirmed tyrion's midnight visit to grand maester pycelle's chambers and the theft of his poisons and potions, confirmed the threat he'd made to cersei the night of their supper, confirmed every bloody thing but the poisoning itself. when prince oberyn asked him how he could possibly know all this, not having been present at any of these events, the eunuch only giggled and said, my little birds told me. knowing is their purpose, and mine. how do i question a little bird? thought tyrion. i should have had the eunuch's head off my first day in king's landing. damn him. and damn me for whatever trust i put in him. have we heard it all? lord tywin asked his daughter as varys left the hall. almost, said cersei. i beg your leave to bring one final witness before you, on the morrow. as you wish, lord tywin said. oh, good, thought tyrion savagely. after this farce of a trial, execution will almost come as a relief. that night, as he sat by his window drinking, he heard voices outside his door. ser kevan, come for my answer, he thought at once, but it was not his uncle who entered. tyrion rose to give prince oberyn a mocking bow. are judges permitted to visit the accused? princes are permitted to go where they will. or so i told your guards. the red viper took a seat. my father will be displeased with you. the happiness of tywin lannister has never been high on my list of concerns. is it dornish wine you're drinking? from the arbor. oberyn made a face. red water. did you poison him? no. did you? the prince smiled. do all dwarfs have tongues like yours? someone is going to cut it out one of these days. you are not the first to tell me that. perhaps i should cut it out myself, it seems to make no end oftrouble. so i've seen. i think i may drink some of lord redwyne's grape juice after all. as you like. tyrion served him a cup. the man took a sip, sloshed it about in his mouth, and swallowed, it will serve, for the moment. i will send you up some strong dornish wine on the morrow. he took another sip. i have turned up that golden haired whore i was hoping for. so you found chataya's? at chataya's i bedded the black-skinned girl. alayaya, i believe she is called. exquisite, despite the stripes on her back. but the whore i referred to is your sister. has she seduced you yet? tyrion asked, unsurprised. oberyn laughed aloud. no, but she will if i meet her price. the queen has even hinted at marriage. her grace needs another husband, and who better than a prince of dome? ellaria believes i should accept. just the thought of cersei in our bed makes her wet, the randy wench. and we should not even need to pay the dwarfs penny. all your sister requires from me is one head, somewhat overlarge and missing a nose. and? said tyrion, waiting. by way of answer prince oberyn swirled his wine, and said, when the young dragon conquered dome so long ago, he left the lord of highgarden to rule us after the submission of sunspear. this tyrell moved with his tail from keep to keep, chasing rebels and making certain that our knees stayed bent. he would arrive in force, take a castle for his own, stay a moon's turn, and ride on to the next castle. it was his custom to turn the lords out of their own chambers and take their beds for himself. one night he found himself beneath a heavy velvet canopy. a sash hung down near the pillows, should he wish to summon a wench. he had a taste for dornish women, this lord tyrell, and who can blame him? so he pulled upon the sash, and when he did the canopy above him split open, and a hundred red scorpions fell down upon his head. his death lit a fire that soon swept across dome, undoing all the young dragon's victories in a fortnight. the kneeling men stood up, and we were free again. i know the tale, said tyrion. what of it? just this, if i should ever find a sash beside my own bed, and pull on it, i would sooner have the scorpions fall upon me than the queen in all her naked beauty. tyrion grinned. we have that much in common, then. to be sure, i have much to thank your sister for. if not for her accusation at the feast, it might well be you judging me instead of me judging you. the prince's eyes were dark with amusement. who knows more of poison than the red viper of dome, after all? who has better reason to want to keep the tyrells far from the crown? and with joffrey in his grave, by dornish law the iron throne should pass next to his sister myrcella, who as it happens is betrothed to mine own nephew, thanks to you. dornish law does not apply. tyrion had been so ensnared in his own troubles that he'd never stopped to consider the succession. my father will crown tommen, count on that. he may indeed crown tommen, here in king's landing. which is not to say that my brother may not crown myrcella, down in sunspear. will your father make war on your niece on behalf of your nephew? will your sister? he gave a shrug. perhaps i should marry queen cersei after all, on the condition that she support her daughter over her son. do you think she would? never, tyrion wanted to say, but the word caught in his throat. cersei always resented being excluded from power on account of her sex. if dornish law applied in the west, she would be the heir to casterly rock in her own right. she and jaime were twins, but cersei had come first into the world, and that was all it took. by championing myrcella's cause she would be championing her own. i do not know how my sister would choose, between tommen and myrcella, he admitted. it makes no matter. my father will never give her that choice. your father, said prince oberyn, may not live forever. something about the way he said it made the hairs on the back of tyrion's neck bristle. suddenly he was mindful of elia again, and all that oberyn had said as they crossed the field of ashes. he wants the head that spoke the words, not just the hand that swung the sword. it is not wise to speak such treasons in the red keep, my prince. the little birds are listening. let them. is it treason to say a man is mortal? valar morghulis was how they said it in valyria of old. all men must die. and the doom came and proved it true. the dornishman went to the window to gaze out into the night. it is being said that you have no witnesses for us. i was hoping one look at this sweet face of mine would be enough to persuade you all of my innocence. you are mistaken, my lord. the fat flower of highgarden is quite convinced of your guilt, and determined to see you die. his precious margaery was drinking from that chalice too, as he has reminded us half a hundred times. and you? said tyrion. men are seldom as they appear. you look so very guilty that i am convinced of your innocence. still, you will likely be condemned. justice is in short supply this side of the mountains. there has been none for elia, aegon, or rhaenys. why should there be any for you? perhaps joffrey's real killer was eaten by a bear. that seems to happen quite often in king's landing. oh, wait, the bear was at harrenhal, now i remember. is that the game we are playing? tyrion rubbed at his scarred nose. he had nothing to lose by telling oberyn the truth. there was a bear at harrenhal, and it did kill ser amory lorch. how sad for him, said the red viper. and for you. do all noseless men lie so badly, i wonder? i am not lying. ser amory dragged princess rhaenys out from under her father's bed and stabbed her to death. he had some men-at-arms with him, but i do not know their names. he leaned forward. it was ser gregor clegane who smashed prince aegon' s head against a wall and raped your sister elia with his blood and brains still on his hands. what is this, now? truth, from a lannister? oberyn smiled coldly. your father gave the commands, yes? no. he spoke the lie without hesitation, and never stopped to ask himself why he should. the dornishman raised one thin black eyebrow. such a dutiful son. and such a very feeble lie. it was lord tywin who presented my sister's children to king robert all wrapped up in crimson lannister cloaks. perhaps you ought to have this discussion with my father. he was there. i was at the rock, and still so young that i thought the thing between my legs was only good for pissing. yes, but you are here now, and in some difficulty, i would say. your innocence may be as plain as the scar on your face, but it will not save you. no more than your father will. the dornish prince smiled. but i might. you? tyrion studied him. you are one judge in three. how could you save me? not as your judge. as your champion. when dawn broke, he found he could not face the thought of food. by evenfall i may stand condemned. his belly was acid with bile, and his nose itched. tyrion scratched at it with the point of his knife. one last witness to endure, then my turn. but what to do? deny everything? accuse sansa and ser dontos? confess, in the hope of spending the rest of his days on the wall? let the dice fly and pray the red viper could defeat ser gregor clegane? tyrion stabbed listlessly at a greasy grey sausage, wishing it were his sister. it is bloody cold on the wall, but at least i would be shut of cersei. he did not think he would make much of a ranger, but the night's watch needed clever men as well as strong ones. lord commander mormont had said as much, when tyrion had visited castle black. there are those inconvenient vows, though. it would mean the end of his marriage and whatever claim he might ever have made for casterly rock, but he did not seem destined to enjoy either in any case. and he seemed to recall that there was a brothel in a nearby village. it was not a life he'd ever dreamed of, but it was life. and all he had to do to earn it was trust in his father, stand up on his little stunted legs, and say, yes, i did it, i confess. that was the part that tied his bowels in knots. he almost wished he had done it, since it seemed he must suffer for it anyway. my lord? said podrick payne. they're here, my lord. ser addam. and the gold cloaks. they wait without. pod, tell me true... do you think i did it? the boy hesitated. when he tried to speak, all he managed to produce was a weak sputter. i am doomed. tyrion sighed. no need to answer. you've been a good squire to me. better than i deserved. whatever happens, i thank you for your leal service. ser addam marbrand waited at the door with six gold cloaks. he had nothing to say this morning, it seemed. another good man who thinks me a kinslayer. tyrion summoned all the dignity he could find and waddled down the steps. he could feel them all watching him as he crossed the yard; the guards on the walls, the grooms by the stables, the scullions and washerwomen and serving girls. inside the throne room, knights and lordlings moved aside to let them through, and whispered to their ladies. no sooner had tyrion taken his place before the judges than another group of gold cloaks led in shae. a cold hand tightened round his heart. varys betrayed her, he thought. then he remembered. no. i betrayed her myself. i should have left her with lollys. of course they'd question sansa's maids, i'd do the same. tyrion rubbed at the slick scar where his nose had been, wondering why cersei had bothered. shae knows nothing that can hurt me. they plotted it together, she said, this girl he'd loved. the imp and lady sansa plotted it after the young wolf died. sansa wanted revenge for her brother and tyrion meant to have the throne. he was going to kill his sister next, and then his own lord father, so he could be hand for prince tommen. but after a year or so, before tommen got too old, he would have killed him too, so as to take the crown for his own head. how could you know all this? demanded prince oberyn. why would the imp divulge such plans to his wife's maid? i overheard some, m'lord, said shae, and m'lady let things slip too. but most i had from his own lips. i wasn't only lady sansa's maid. i was his whore, all the time he was here in king's landing. on the morning of the wedding, he dragged me down where they keep the dragon skulls and fucked me there with the monsters all around. and when i cried, he said i ought to be more grateful, that it wasn't every girl who got to be the king's whore. that was when he told me how he meant to be king. he said that poor boy joffrey would never know his bride the way he was knowing me. she started sobbing then. i never meant to be a whore, m'lords. i was to be married. a squire, he was, and a good brave boy, gentle born. but the imp saw me at the green fork and put the boy i meant to marry in the front rank of the van, and after he was killed he sent his wildlings to bring me to his tent. shagga, the big one, and timett with the burned eye. he said if i didn't pleasure him, he'd give me to them, so i did. then he brought me to the city, so i'd be close when he wanted me. he made me do such shameful things... prince oberyn looked curious. what sorts of things? unspeakable things. as the tears rolled slowly down that pretty face, no doubt every man in the hall wanted to take shae in his arms and comfort her. with my mouth and... other parts, m'lord. all my parts. he used me every way there was, and... he used to make me tell him how big he was. my giant, i had to call him, my giant of lannister. oswald kettleblack was the first to laugh. boros and meryn joined in, then cersei, ser loras, and more lords and ladies than he could count. the sudden gale of mirth made the rafters ring and shook the iron throne. it's true, shae protested. my giant of lannister. the laughter swelled twice as loud. their mouths were twisted in merriment, their bellies shook. some laughed so hard that snot flew from their nostrils. i saved you all, tyrion thought. i saved this vile city and all your worthless lives. there were hundreds in the throne room, every one of them laughing but his father. or so it seemed. even the red viper chortled, and mace tyrell looked like to bust a gut, but lord tywin lannister sat between them as if made of stone, his fingers steepled beneath his chin. tyrion pushed forward. my lords! he shouted. he had to shout, to have any hope of being heard. his father raised a hand. bit by bit, the hall grew silent. get this lying whore out of my sight, said tyrion, and i will give you your confession. lord tywin nodded, gestured. shae looked half in terror as the gold cloaks formed up around her. her eyes met tyrion's as they marched her from the wall. was it shame he saw there, or fear? he wondered what cersei had promised her. you will get the gold or jewels, whatever it was you asked for, he thought as he watched her back recede, but before the moon has turned she'll have you entertaining the gold cloaks in their barracks. tyrion stared up at his father's hard green eyes with their flecks of cold bright gold. guilty, he said, so guilty. is that what you wanted to hear? lord tywin said nothing. mace tyrell nodded. prince oberyn looked mildly disappointed. you admit you poisoned the king? nothing of the sort, said tyrion. of joffrey's death i am innocent. i am guilty of a more monstrous crime. he took a step toward his father. i was born. i lived. i am guilty of being a dwarf, i confess it. and no matter how many times my good father forgave me, i have persisted in my infamy. this is folly, tyrion, declared lord tywin. speak to the matter at hand. you are not on trial for being a dwarf. that is where you err, my lord. i have been on trial for being a dwarf my entire life. have you nothing to say in your defense? nothing but this: i did not do it. yet now i wish i had. he turned to face the hall, that sea of pale faces. i wish i had enough poison for you all. you make me sorry that i am not the monster you would have me be, yet there it is. i am innocent, but i will get no justice here. you leave me no choice but to appeal to the gods. i demand trial by battle. have you taken leave of your wits? his father said. no, i've found them. i demand trial by battle! his sweet sister could not have been more pleased. he has that right, my lords, she reminded the judges. let the gods judge. ser gregor clegane will stand for joffrey. he returned to the city the night before last, to put his sword at my service. lord tywin' s face was so dark that for half a heartbeat tyrion wondered if he'd drunk some poisoned wine as well. he slammed his fist down on the table, too angry to speak. it was mace tyrell who turned to tyrion and asked the question. do you have a champion to defend your innocence? he does, my lord. prince oberyn of dome rose to his feet. the dwarf has quite convinced me. the uproar was deafening. tyrion took especial pleasure in the sudden doubt he glimpsed in cersei's eyes. it took a hundred gold cloaks pounding the butts of their spears against the floor to quiet the throne room again. by then lord tywin lannister had recovered himself. let the issue be decided on the morrow, he declared in iron tones. i wash my hands of it. he gave his dwarf son a cold angry look, then strode from the hall, out the king's door behind the iron throne, his brother kevan at his side. later, back in his tower cell, tyrion poured himself a cup of wine and sent podrick payne off for cheese, bread, and olives. he doubted whether he could keep down anything heavier just now. did you think i would go meekly, father? he asked the shadow his candles etched upon the wall. i have too much of you in me for that. he felt strangely at peace, now that he had snatched the power of life and death from his father's hands and placed it in the hands of the gods. assuming there are gods, and they give a mummer's fart. if not, then i'm in dornish hands. no matter what happened, tyrion had the satisfaction of knowing that he'd kicked lord tywin's plans to splinters. if prince oberyn won, it would further inflame highgarden against the dornish; mace tyrell would see the man who crippled his son helping the dwarf who almost poisoned his daughter to escape his rightful punishment. and if the mountain triumphed, doran martell might well demand to know why his brother had been served with death instead of the justice tyrion had promised him. dome might crown myrcella after all. it was almost worth dying to know all the trouble he'd made. will you come to see the end, shae? will you stand there with the rest, watching as ser ilyn lops my ugly head off? will you miss your giant of lannister when he's dead? he drained his wine, flung the cup aside, and sang lustily. he rode through the streets of the city, down from his hill on high, o'er the wynds and the steps and the cobbles, he rode to a woman's sigh. for she was his secret treasure, she was his shame and his bliss. and a chain and a keep are nothing, compared to a woman's kiss. ser kevan did not visit him that night. he was probably with lord tywin, trying to placate the tyrells. i have seen the last of that uncle, i fear. he poured another cup of wine. a pity he'd had symon silver tongue killed before learning all the words of that song. it wasn't a bad song, if truth be told. especially compared to the ones that would be written about him henceforth. for hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm, he sang. perhaps he should write the other verses himself. if he lived so long. that night, surprisingly, tyrion lannister slept long and deep. he rose at first light, well rested and with a hearty appetite, and broke his fast on fried bread, blood sausage, applecakes, and a double helping of eggs cooked with onions and fiery dornish peppers. then he begged leave of his guards to attend his champion. ser addam gave his consent. tyrion found prince oberyn drinking a cup of red wine as he donned his armor. he was attended by four of his younger dornish lordlings. good morrow to you, my lord, the prince said. will you take a cup of wine? should you be drinking before battle? i always drink before battle. that could get you killed. worse, it could get me killed. prince oberyn laughed. the gods defend the innocent. you are innocent, i trust? only of killing joffrey, tyrion admitted. i do hope you know what you are about to face. gregor clegane is -  - large? so i have heard. he is almost eight feet tall and must weigh thirty stone, all of it muscle. he fights with a two- handed greatsword, but needs only one hand to wield it. he has been known to cut men in half with a single blow. his armor is so heavy that no lesser man could bear the weight, let alone move in it. prince oberyn was unimpressed. i have killed large men before. the trick is to get them off their feet. once they go down, they're dead. the dornishman sounded so blithely confident that tyrion felt almost reassured, until he turned and said, daemon, my spear! ser daemon tossed it to him, and the red viper snatched it from the air. you mean to face the mountain with a spear? that made tyrion uneasy all over again. in battle, ranks of massed spears made for a formidable front, but single combat against a skilled swordsman was a very different matter. we are fond of spears in dome. besides, it is the only way to counter his reach. have a look, lord imp, but see you do not touch. the spear was turned ash eight feet long, the shaft smooth, thick, and heavy. the last two feet of that was steel: a slender leaf-shaped spearhead narrowing to a wicked spike. the edges looked sharp enough to shave with. when oberyn spun the haft between the palms of his hand, they glistened black. oil? or poison? tyrion decided that he would sooner not know. i hope you are good with that, he said doubtfully. you will have no cause for complaint. though ser gregor may. however thick his plate, there will be gaps at the joints. inside the elbow and knee, beneath the arms... i will find a place to tickle him, i promise you. he set the spear aside. it is said that a lannister always pays his debts. perhaps you will return to sunspear with me when the day's bloodletting is done. my brother doran would be most pleased to meet the rightful heir to casterly rock... especially if he brought his lovely wife, the lady of winterfell. does the snake think i have sansa squirreled away somewhere, like a nut i'm hoarding for winter? if so, tyrion was not about to disabuse him. a trip to dome might be very pleasant, now that i reflect on it. plan on a lengthy visit. prince oberyn sipped his wine. you and doran have many matters of mutual interest to discuss. music, trade, history, wine, the dwarfs penny... the laws of inheritance and succession. no doubt an uncle's counsel would be of benefit to queen myrcella in the trying times ahead. if varys had his little birds listening, oberyn was giving them a ripe earful. i believe i will have that cup of wine, said tyrion. queen myrcella? it would have been more tempting if only he did have sansa tucked beneath his cloak. if she declared for myrcella over tommen, would the north follow? what the red viper was hinting at was treason. could tyrion truly take up arms against tommen, against his own father? cersei would spit blood. it might be worth it for that alone. do you recall the tale i told you of our first meeting, imp? prince oberyn asked, as the bastard of godsgrace knelt before him to fasten his greaves. it was not for your tail alone that my sister and i came to casterly rock. we were on a quest of sorts. a quest that took us to starfall, the arbor, oldtown, the shield islands, crakehall, and finally casterly rock... but our true destination was marriage. doran was betrothed to lady mellario of norvos, so he had been left behind as castellan of sunspear. my sister and i were yet unpromised. elia found it all exciting. she was of that age, and her delicate health had never permitted her much travel. i preferred to amuse myself by mocking my sister's suitors. there was little lord lazyeye, squire squishlips, one i named the whale that walks, that sort of thing. the only one who was even halfway presentable was young baelor hightower. a pretty lad, and my sister was half in love with him until he had the misfortune to fart once in our presence. i promptly named him baelor breakwind, and after that elia couldn't look at him without laughing. i was a monstrous young fellow, someone should have sliced out my vile tongue. yes, tyrion agreed silently. baelor hightower was no longer young, but he remained lord leyton's heir; wealthy, handsome, and a knight of splendid repute. baelor brightsmile, they called him now. had elia wed him in place of rhaegar targaryen, she might be in oldtown with her children growing tall around her. he wondered how many lives had been snuffed out by that fart. lannisport was the end of our voyage, prince oberyn went on, as ser arron qorgyle helped him into a padded leather tunic and began lacing it up the back. were you aware that our mothers knew each other of old? they had been at court together as girls, i seem to recall. companions to princess rhaella? just so. it was my belief that the mothers had cooked up this plot between them. squire squishlips and his ilk and the various pimply young maidens who'd been paraded before me were the almonds before the feast, meant only to whet our appetites. the main course was to be served at easterly rock. cersei and jaime. such a clever dwarf. elia and i were older, to be sure. your brother and sister could not have been more than eight or nine. still, a difference of five or six years is little enough. and there was an empty cabin on our ship, a very nice cabin, such as might be kept for a person of high birth. as if it were intended that we take someone back to sunspear. a young page, perhaps. or a companion for elia. your lady mother meant to betroth jaime to my sister, or cersei to me. perhaps both. perhaps, said tyrion, but my father - ruled the seven kingdoms, but was ruled at home by his lady wife, or so my mother always said. prince oberyn raised his arms, so lord dagos manwoody and the bastard of godsgrace could slip a chainmail bymie down over his head.at oldtown we learned of your mother's death, and the monstrous child she had borne. we might have turned back there, but my mother chose to sail on. i told you of the welcome we found at easterly rock. what i did not tell you was that my mother waited as long as was decent, and then broached your father about our purpose. years later, on her deathbed, she told me that lord tywin had refused us brusquely. his daughter was meant for prince rhaegar, he informed her. and when she asked for jaime, to espouse elia, he offered her you instead. which offer she took for an outrage. it was. even you can see that, surely? oh, surely. it all goes back and back, tyrion thought, to our mothers and fathers and theirs before them. we are puppets dancing on the strings of those who came before us, and one day our own children will take up our strings and dance on in our steads. well, prince rhaegar married elia of dome, not cersei lannister of casterly rock. so it would seem your mother won that tilt. she thought so, prince oberyn agreed, but your father is not a man to forget such slights. he taught that lesson to lord and lady tarbeck once, and to the reynes of castamere. and at king's landing, he taught it to my sister. my helm, dagos. manwoody handed it to him; a high golden helm with a copper disk mounted on the brow, the sun of dome. the visor had been removed, tyrion saw. elia and her children have waited long for justice. prince oberyn pulled on soft red leather gloves, and took up his spear again. but this day they shall have it. the outer ward had been chosen for the combat. tyrion had to skip and run to keep up with prince oberyn's long strides. the snake is eager, he thought. let us hope he is venomous as well. the day was grey and windy. the sun was struggling to break through the clouds, but tyrion could no more have said who was going to win that fight than the one on which his life depended. it looked as though a thousand people had come to see if he would live or die. they lined the castle wallwalks and elbowed one another on the steps of keeps and towers. they watched from the stable doors, from windows and bridges, from balconies and roofs. and the yard was packed with them, so many that the gold cloaks and the knights of the kingsguard had to shove them back to make enough room for the fight. some had dragged out chairs to watch more comfortably, while others perched on barrels. we should have done this in the dragonpit, tyrion thought sourly. we could have charged a penny a head and paid for joffrey's wedding and funeral both. some of the onlookers even had small children sitting on their shoulders, to get a better view. they shouted and pointed at the sight of tyrion. cersei seemed half a child herself beside ser gregor. in his armor, the mountain looked bigger than any man had any right to be. beneath a long yellow surcoat bearing the three black dogs of clegane, he wore heavy plate over chainmail, dull grey steel dinted and scarred in battle. beneath that would be boiled leather and a layer of quilting. a flat-topped greathelm was bolted to his gorget, with breaths around the mouth and nose and a narrow slit for vision. the crest atop it was a stone fist. if ser gregor was suffering from wounds, tyrion could see no sign of it from across the yard. he looks as though he was chiseled out of rock, standing there. his greatsword was planted in the ground before him, six feet of scarred metal. ser gregor's huge hands, clad in gauntlets of lobstered steel, clasped the crosshilt to either side of the grip. even prince oberyn's paramour paled at the sight of him. you are going to fight that? ellaria sand said in a hushed voice. i am going to kill that, her lover replied carelessly. tyrion had his own doubts, now that they stood on the brink. when he looked at prince oberyn, he found himself wishing he had bronn defending him... or even better, jaime. the red viper was lightly armored; greaves, vambraces, gorget, spaulder, steel codpiece. elsewise oberyn. was clad in supple leather and flowing silks. over his byrnie he wore his scales of gleaming copper, but mail and scale together would not give him a quarter the protection of gregor's heavy plate. with its visor removed, the prince's helm was effectively no better than a halfhelm, lacking even a nasal. his round steel shield was brightly polished, and showed the sun-and-spear in red gold, yellow gold, white gold, and copper. dance around him until he's so tired he can hardly lift his arm, then put him on his back. the red viper seemed to have the same notion as bronn. but the sellsword had been blunt about the risks of such tactics. i hope to seven hells that you know what you are doing, snake. a platform had been erected beside the tower of the hand, halfway between the two champions. that was where lord tywin sat with his brother ser kevan. king tommen was not in evidence; for that, at least, tyrion was grateful. lord tywin glanced briefly at his dwarf son, then lifted his hand. a dozen trumpeters blew a fanfare to quiet the crowd. the high septon shuffled forward in his tall crystal crown, and prayed that the father above would help them in this judgment, and that the warrior would lend his strength to the arm of the man whose cause was just. that would be me, tyrion almost shouted, but they would only laugh, and he was sick unto death of laughter. ser osmund kettleblack brought clegane his shield, a massive thing of heavy oak rimmed in black iron. as the mountain slid his left arm through the straps, tyrion saw that the hounds of clegane had been painted over. this morning ser gregor bore the seven-pointed star the andals had brought to westeros when they crossed the narrow sea to overwhelm the first men and their gods. very pious of you, cersei, but i doubt the gods will be impressed. there were fifty yards between them. prince oberyn advanced quickly, ser gregor more ominously. the ground does not shake when he walks, tyrion told himself. that is only my heart fluttering. when the two men were ten yards apart, the red viper stopped and called out, have they told you who i am? ser gregor grunted through his breaths. some dead man. he came on, inexorable. the dornishman slid sideways. i am oberyn martell, a prince of dome, he said, as the mountain turned to keep him in sight. princess elia was my sister. who? asked gregor clegane. oberyn's long spear jabbed, but ser gregor took the point on his shield, shoved it aside, and bulled back at the prince, his great sword flashing. the dornishman spun away untouched. the spear darted forward. clegane slashed at it, martell snapped it back, then thrust again. metal screamed on metal as the spearhead slid off the mountain's chest, slicing through the surcoat and leaving a long bright scratch on the steel beneath. elia martell, princess of dome, the red viper hissed. you raped her. you murdered her. you killed her children. ser gregor grunted. he made a ponderous charge to hack at the dornishman's head. prince oberyn avoided him easily. you raped her. you murdered her. you killed her children. did you come to talk or to fight? i came to hear you confess. the red viper landed a quick thrust on the mountain's belly, to no effect. gregor cut at him, and missed. the long spear lanced in above his sword. like a serpent's tongue it flickered in and out, feinting low and landing high, jabbing at groin, shield, eyes. the mountain makes for a big target, at the least, tyrion thought. prince oberyn could scarcely miss, though none of his blows was penetrating ser gregor's heavy plate. the dornishman kept circling, jabbing, then darting back again, forcing the bigger man to turn and turn again. clegane is losing sight of him. the mountain's helm had a narrow eyeslit, severely limiting his vision. oberyn was making good use of that, and the length of his spear, and his quickness. it went on that way for what seemed a long time. back and forth they moved across the yard, and round and round in spirals, ser gregor slashing at the air while oberyn' s spear struck at arm, and leg, twice at his temple. gregor's big wooden shield took its share of hits as well, until a dog's head peeped out from under the star, and elsewhere the raw oak showed through. clegane would grunt from time to time, and once tyrion heard him mutter a curse, but otherwise he fought in a sullen silence. not oberyn martell. you raped her, he called, feinting. you murdered her, he said, dodging a looping cut from gregor's greatsword. you killed her children, he shouted, slamming the spearpoint into the giant's throat, only to have it glance off the thick steel gorget with a screech. oberyn is toying with him, said ellaria sand. that is fool's play, thought tyrion. the mountain is too bloody big to be any man's toy. all around the yard, the throng of spectators was creeping in toward the two combatants, edging forward inch by inch to get a better view. the kingsguard tried to keep them back, shoving at the gawkers forcefully with their big white shields, but there were hundreds of gawkers and only six of the men in white armor. you raped her. prince oberyn parried a savage cut with his spearhead. you murdered her. he sent the spearpoint at clegane's eyes, so fast the huge man flinched back. you killed her children. the spear flickered sideways and down, scraping against the mountain's breastplate. you raped her. you murdered her. you killed her children. the spear was two feet longer than ser gregor's sword, more than enough to keep him at an awkward distance. he hacked at the shaft whenever oberyn lunged at him, trying to lop off the spearhead, but he might as well have been trying to hack the wings off a fly. you raped her. you murdered her. you killed her children. gregor tried to bull rush, but oberyn skipped aside and circled round his back. you raped her. you murdered her. you killed her children. be quiet. ser gregor seemed to be moving a little slower, and his greatsword no longer rose quite so high as it had when the contest began. shut your bloody mouth. you raped her, the prince said, moving to the right. enough! ser gregor took two long strides and brought his sword down at oberyn' s head, but the dornishman backstepped once more. you murdered her, he said. shut up gregor charged headlong, right at the point of the spear, which slammed into his right breast then slid aside with a hideous steel shriek. suddenly the mountain was close enough to strike, his huge sword flashing in a steel blur. the crowd was screaming as well. oberyn slipped the first blow and let go of the spear, useless now that ser gregor was inside it. the second cut the dornishman caught on his shield. metal met metal with an ear-splitting clang sending the red viper reeling. ser gregor followed, bellowing. he doesn't use words, he just roars like an animal, tyrion thought. oberyn's retreat became a headlong backward flight mere inches ahead of the greatsword as it slashed at his chest, his arms, his head. the stable was behind him. spectators screamed and shoved at each other to get out of the way. one stumbled into oberyn's back. ser gregor hacked down with all his savage strength. the red viper threw himself sideways, rolling. the luckless stableboy behind him was not so quick. as his arm rose to protect his face, gregor's sword took it off between elbow and shoulder. shut up! the mountain howled at the stableboy' s scream, and this time he swung the blade sideways, sending the top half of the lad's head across the yard in a spray of blood and brains. hundreds of spectators suddenly seemed to lose all interest in the guilt or innocence of tyrion lannister, judging by the way they pushed and shoved at each other to escape the yard. but the red viper of dome was back on his feet, his long spear in hand. elia, he called at ser gregor. you raped her. you murdered her. you killed her children. now say her name. the mountain whirled. helm, shield, sword, surcoat; he was spattered with gore from head to heels. you talk too much, he grumbled. you make my head hurt. i will hear you say it. she was elia of dome. the mountain snorted contemptuously, and came on... and in that moment, the sun broke through the low clouds that had hidden the sky since dawn. the sun of dome, tyrion told himself, but it was gregor clegane who moved first to put the sun at his back. this is a dim and brutal man, but he has a warrior's instincts. the red viper crouched, squinting, and sent his spear darting forward again. ser gregor hacked at it, but the thrust had only been a feint. off balance, he stumbled forward a step. prince oberyn tilted his dinted metal shield. a shaft of sunlight blazed blindingly off polished gold and copper, into the narrow slit of his foe's helm. clegane lifted his own shield against the glare. prince oberyn's spear flashed like lightning and found the gap in the heavy plate, the joint under the arm. the point punched through mail and boiled leather. gregor gave a choked grunt as the dornishman twisted his spear and yanked it free. elia. say it! elia. of dome! he was circling spear poised for another thrust. say it! tyrion had his own prayer. fall down and die, was how it went. damn you, fall down and die! the blood trickling from the mountain's armpit was his own now, and he must be bleeding even more heavily inside the breastplate. when he tried to take a step, one knee buckled. tyrion thought he was going down. prince oberyn had circled behind him. elia of dorne! he shouted. ser gregor started to turn, but too slow and too late. the spearhead went through the back of the knee this time, through the layers of chain and leather between the plates on thigh and calf. the mountain reeled, swayed, then collapsed face first on the ground. his huge sword went flying from his hand. slowly, ponderously, he rolled onto his back. the dornishman flung away his mined shield, grasped the spear in both hands, and sauntered away. behind him the mountain let out a groan, and pushed himself onto an elbow. oberyn whirled cat-quick, and ran at his fallen foe. eeeeelllllliiiiiaaaaa! he screamed, as he drove the spear down with the whole weight of his body behind it. the crack of the ashwood shaft snapping was almost as sweet a sound as cersei's wail of fury, and for an instant prince oberyn had wings. the snake has vaulted over the mountain. four feet of broken spear jutted from clegane's belly as prince oberyn rolled, rose, and dusted himself off. he tossed aside the splintered spear and claimed his foe's greatsword. if you die before you say her name, ser, i will hunt you through all seven hells, he promised. ser gregor tried to rise, the broken spear had gone through him, and was pinning him to the ground. he wrapped both hands about the shaft, grunting, but could not pull it out. beneath him was a spreading pool of red. i am feeling more innocent by the instant, tyrion told ellaria sand beside him. prince oberyn moved closer. say the name! he put a foot on the mountain's chest and raised the greatsword with both hands. whether he intended to hack off gregor' s head or shove the point through his eyeslit was something tyrion would never know. clegane's hand shot up and grabbed the dornishman behind the knee. the red viper brought down the greatsword in a wild slash, but he was off-balance, and the edge did no more than put another dent in the mountain's vambrace. then the sword was forgotten as gregor's hand tightened and twisted, yanking the dornishman down on top of him. they wrestled in the dust and blood, the broken spear wobbling back and forth. tyrion saw with horror that the mountain had wrapped one huge arm around the prince, drawing him tight against his chest, like a lover. elia of dome, they all heard ser gregor say, when they were close enough to kiss. his deep voice boomed within the helm. i killed her screaming whelp. he thrust his free hand into oberyn' s unprotected face, pushing steel fingers into his eyes. then i raped her. clegane slammed his fist into the dornishman's mouth, making splinters of his teeth. then i smashed her fucking head in. like this. as he drew back his huge fist, the blood on his gauntlet seemed to smoke in the cold dawn air. there was a sickening crunch. ellaria sand wailed in terror, and tyrion's breakfast came boiling back up. he found himself on his knees retching bacon and sausage and applecakes, and that double helping of fried eggs cooked up with onions and fiery dornish peppers. he never heard his father speak the words that condemned him. perhaps no words were necessary. i put my life in the red viper's hands, and he dropped it. when he remembered, too late, that snakes had no hands, tyrion began to laugh hysterically. he was halfway down the serpentine steps before he realized that the gold cloaks were not taking him back to his tower room. i've been consigned to the black cells, he said. they did not bother to answer. why waste your breath on the dead? when he heard noises through the thick wooden door of his cell, tyrion lannister prepared to die. past time, he thought. come on, come on, make an end to it. he pushed himself to his feet. his legs were asleep from being folded under him. he bent down and rubbed the knives from them. i will not go stumbling and waddling to the headsman's block. he wondered whether they would kill him down here in the dark or drag him through the city so ser ilyn payne could lop his head off. after his mummer's farce of a trial, his sweet sister and loving father might prefer to dispose of him quietly, rather than risk a public execution. i could tell the mob a few choice things, if they let me speak. but would they be that foolish? as the keys rattled and the door to his cell pushed inward, creaking, tyrion pressed back against the dampness of the wall, wishing for a weapon. i can still bite and kick. i'll die with the taste of blood in my mouth, that's something. he wished he'd been able to think of some rousing last words. bugger you all was not like to earn him much of a place in the histories. torchlight fell across his face. he shielded his eyes with a hand. come on, are you frightened of a dwarf? do it, you son of a poxy whore. his voice had grown hoarse from disuse. is that any way to speak about our lady mother? the man moved forward, a torch in his left hand. this is even more ghastly than my cell at riverrun, though not quite so dank. for a moment tyrion could not breathe. you? well, most of me. jaime was gaunt, his hair hacked short. i left a hand at harrenhal. bringing the brave companions across the narrow sea was not one of father's better notions. he lifted his arm, and tyrion saw the stump. a bark of hysterical laughter burst from his lips. oh, gods, he said. jaime, i am so sorry, but... gods be good, look at the two of us. handless and noseless the lannister boys. there were days when my hand smelled so bad i wished i was noseless. jaime lowered the torch, so the light bathed his brother's face. an impressive scar. tyrion turned away from the glare. they made me fight a battle without my big brother to protect me. i heard tell you almost burned the city down. a filthy lie. i only burned the river. abruptly, tyrion remembered where he was, and why. are you here to kill me? now that's ungrateful. perhaps i should leave you here to rot if you're going to be so discourteous. rotting is not the fate cersei has in mind for me. well no, if truth be told. you're to be beheaded on the morrow, out on the old tourney grounds. tyrion laughed again. will there be food? you'll have to help me with my last words, my wits have been running about like a rat in a root cellar. you won't need last words. i'm rescuing you. jaime's voice was strangely solemn. who said i required rescue? you know, i'd almost forgotten what an annoying little man you are. now that you've reminded me, i do believe i'll let cersei cut your head off after all. oh no you won't. he waddled out of the cell. is it day or night up above? i've lost all sense oftime. three hours past midnight. the city sleeps. jaime slid the torch back into its sconce, on the wall between the cells. the corridor was so poorly lit that tyrion almost stumbled on the turnkey, sprawled across the cold stone floor. he prodded him with a toe. is he dead? asleep. the other three as well. the eunuch dosed their wine with sweetsleep, but not enough to kill them. or so he swears. he is waiting back at the stair, dressed up in a septon's robe. you're going down into the sewers, and from there to the river. a galley is waiting in the bay. varys has agents in the free cities who will see that you do not lack for funds... but try not to be conspicuous. cersei will send men after you, i have no doubt. you might do well to take another name. another name? oh, certainly. and when the faceless men come to kill me, i'll say, no, you have the wrong man, i'm a different dwarf with a hideous facial scar. both lannisters laughed at the absurdity of it all. then jaime went to one knee and kissed him quickly once on each cheek, his lips brushing against the puckered ribbon of scar tissue. thank you, brother, tyrion said. for my life. it was... a debt i owed you. jaime's voice was strange. a debt? he cocked his head. i do not understand. good. some doors are best left closed. oh, dear, said tyrion. is there something grim and ugly behind it? could it be that someone said something cruel about me once? i'll try not to weep. tell me. tyrion... jaime is afraid. tell me, tyrion said again. his brother looked away. tysha, he said softly. tysha? his stomach tightened. what of her? she was no whore. i never bought her for you. that was a lie that father commanded me to tell. tysha was... she was what she seemed to be. a crofter's daughter, chance met on the road. tyrion could hear the faint sound of his own breath whistling hollowly through the scar of his nose. jaime could not meet his eyes. tysha. he tried to remember what she had looked like. a girl, she was only a girl, no older than sansa. my wife, he croaked. she wed me. for your gold, father said. she was lowborn, you were a lannister of casterly rock. all she wanted was the gold, which made her no different from a whore, so... so it would not be a lie, not truly, and... he said that you required a sharp lesson. that you would learn from it, and thank me later... thank you? tyrion's voice was choked. he gave her to his guards. a barracks full of guards. he made me... watch. aye, and more than watch. i took her too... my wife... i never knew he would do that. you must believe me. oh, must i tyrion snarled. why should i believe you about anything, ever? she was my wife! tyrion -it... he hit him. it was a slap, backhanded, but he put all his strength into it, all his fear, all his rage, all his pain. jaime was squatting, unbalanced. the blow sent him tumbling backward to the floor. i... i suppose i earned that. oh, you've earned more than that, jaime. you and my sweet sister and our loving father, yes, i can't begin to tell you what you've earned. but you'll have it, that i swear to you. a lannister always pays his debts. tyrion waddled away, almost stumbling over the turnkey again in his haste. before he had gone a dozen yards, he bumped up against an irongate that closed the passage. oh, gods. it was all he could do not to scream. jaime came up behind him. i have the gaoler's keys. then use them. tyrion stepped aside. jaime unlocked the gate, pushed it open, and stepped through. he looked back over his shoulder. are you coming? not with you. tyrion stepped through. give me the keys and go. i will find varys on my own. he cocked his head and stared up at his brother with his mismatched eyes. jaime, can you fight left-handed? rather less well than you, jaime said bitterly. good. then we will be well matched if we should ever meet again. the cripple and the dwarf. jaime handed him the ring of keys. i gave you the truth. you owe me the same. did you do it? did you kill him? the question was another knife, twisting in his guts. are you sure you want to know? asked tyrion. joffrey would have been a worse king than aerys ever was. he stole his father's dagger and gave it to a footpad to slit the throat of brandon stark, did you know that? i... i thought he might have. well, a son takes after his father. jo ff would have killed me as well, once he came into his power. for the crime of being short and ugly, of which i am so conspicuously guilty. you have not answered my question. you poor stupid blind crippled fool. must i spell every little thing out for you? very well. cersei is a lying whore, she's been fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and probably moon boy for all i know. and i am the monster they all say i am. yes, i killed your vile son. he made himself grin. it must have been a hideous sight to see, there in the torchlit gloom. jaime turned without a word and walked away. tyrion watched him go, striding on his long strong legs, and part of him wanted to call out, to tell him that it wasn't true, to beg for his forgiveness. but then he thought of tysha, and he held his silence. he listened to the receding footsteps until he could hear them no longer, then waddled off to look for varys. the eunuch was lurking in the dark of a twisting turnpike stair, garbed in a moth-eaten brown robe with a hood that hid the paleness of his face. you were so long, i feared that something had gone amiss, he said when he saw tyrion. oh, no, tyrion assured him, in poisonous tones. what could possibly have gone amiss? he twisted his head back to stare up. i sent for you during my trial. i could not come. the queen had me watched, night and day. i dared not help you. you're helping me now. am i? ah. varys giggled. it seemed strangely out of place in this place of cold stone and echoing darkness. your brother can be most persuasive. varys, you are as cold and slimy as a slug, has anyone ever told you? you did your best to kill me. perhaps i ought to return the favor. the eunuch sighed. the faithful dog is kicked, and no matter how the spider weaves, he is never loved. but if you slay me here, i fear for you, my lord. you may never find your way back to daylight. his eyes glittered in the shifting torchlight, dark and wet. these tunnels are full of traps for the unwary. tyrion snorted. unwary? i'm the wariest man who ever lived, you helped see to that. he rubbed at his nose. so tell me, wizard, where is my innocent maiden wife? i have found no trace of lady sansa in king's landing sad to say. nor of ser dontos hollard, who by rights should have turned up somewhere drunk by now. they were seen together on the serpentine steps the night she vanished. after that, nothing. there was much confusion that night. my little birds are silent. varys gave a gentle tug at the dwarfs sleeve and pulled him into the stair. my lord, we must away. your path is down. that's no lie, at least. tyrion waddled along in the eunuch's wake, his heels scraping against the rough stone as they descended. it was very cold within the stairwell, a damp bone-chilling cold that set him to shivering at once. what part of the dungeons are these? he asked. maegor the cruel decreed four levels of dungeons for his castle, varys replied. on the upper level, there are large cells where common criminals may be confined together. they have narrow windows set high in the walls. the second level has the smaller cells where highborn captives are held. they have no windows, but torches in the halls cast light through the bars. on the third level the cells are smaller and the doors are wood. the black cells, men call them. that was where you were kept, and eddard stark before you. but there is a level lower still. once a man is taken down to the fourth level, he never sees the sun again, nor hears a human voice, nor breathes a breath free of agonizing pain. maegor had the cells on the fourth level built for torment. they had reached the bottom of the steps. an unlighted door opened before them. this is the fourth level. give me your hand, my lord. it is safer to walk in darkness here. there are things you would not wish to see. tyrion hung back a moment. varys had already betrayed him once. who knew what game the eunuch was playing? and what better place to murder a man than down in the darkness, in a place that no one knew existed? his body might never be found. on the other hand, what choice did he have? to go back up the steps and walk out the main gate? no, that would not serve. jaime would not be afraid, he thought, before he remembered what jaime had done to him. he took the eunuch by the hand and let himself be led through the black, following the soft scrape of leather on stone. varys walked quickly, from time to time whispering, careful, there are three steps ahead, or, the tunnel slopes downward here, my lord. i arrived here a king's hand, riding through the gates at the head of my own sworn men, tyrion reflected, and i leave like a rat scuttling through the dark, holding hands with a spider. a light appeared ahead of them, too dim to be daylight, and grew as they hurried toward it. after a while he could see it was an arched doorway, closed off by another iron gate. varys produced a key. they stepped through into a small round chamber. five other doors opened off the room, each barred in iron. there was an opening in the ceiling as well, and a series of rungs set in the wall below, leading upward. an ornate brazier stood to one side, fashioned in the shape of a dragon's head. the coals in the beast's yawning mouth had burnt down to embers, but they still glowed with a sullen orange light. dim as it was, the light was welcome after the blackness of the tunnel. the juncture was otherwise empty, but on the floor was a mosaic of a three-headed dragon wrought in red and black tiles. something niggled at tyrion for a moment. then it came to him. this is the place shae told me of, when varys first led her to my bed. we are below the tower of the hand. yes. frozen hinges screamed in protest as varys pulled open a long closed door. flakes of rust drifted to the floor. this will take us out to the river. tyrion walked slowly to the ladder, ran his hand across the lowest rung. this will take me up to my bedchamber. your lord father's bedchamber now. he looked up the shaft. how far must i climb? my lord, you are too weak for such follies, and there is besides no time. we must go. i have business above. how far? two hundred and thirty rungs, but whatever you intend- two hundred and thirty rungs, and then? the tunnel to the left, but hear me - how far along to the bedchamber? tyrion lifted a foot to the lowest rung of the ladder. no more than sixty feet. keep one hand on the wall as you go. you will feel the doors. the bedchamber is the third. he sighed. this is folly, my lord. your brother has given you your life back. would you cast it away, and mine with it? varys, the only thing i value less than my life just now is yours. wait for me here. he turned his back on the eunuch and began to climb, counting silently as he went. rung by rung, he ascended into darkness. at first he could see the dim outline of each rung as he grasped it, and the rough grey texture of the stone behind, but as he climbed the black grew thicker. thirteen fourteen fifteen sixteen. by thirty, his arms trembled with the strain of pulling. he paused a moment to catch his breath and glanced down. a circle of faint light shone far below, half obscured by his own feet. tyrion resumed his ascent. thirty- nine forty forty-one. by fifty, his legs burned. the ladder was endless, numbing. sixty-eight sixty-nine seventy. by eighty, his back was a dull agony. yet still he climbed. he could not have said why. one thirteen one fourteen one fifteen. at two hundred and thirty, the shaft was black as pitch, but he could feel the warm air flowing from the tunnel to his left, like the breath of some great beast. he poked about awkwardly with a foot and edged off the ladder. the tunnel was even more cramped than the shaft. any man of normal size would have had to crawl on hands and knees, but tyrion was short enough to walk upright. at last, a place made for dwarfs. his boots scuffed softly against the stone. he walked slowly, counting steps, feeling for gaps in the walls. soon he began to hear voices, muffled and indistinct at first, then clearer. he listened more closely. two of his father's guardsmen were joking about the imp's whore, saying how sweet it would be to fuck her, and how bad she must want a real cock in place of the dwarfs stunted little thing. most like it's got a crook in it, said lum. that led him into a discussion of how tyrion would die on the morrow. he'll weep like a woman and beg for mercy, you'll see, lum insisted. lester figured he'd face the axe brave as a lion, being a lannister, and he was willing to bet his new boots on it. ah, shit in your boots, said lum, you know they'd never fit these feet o'mine. tell you what, if i win you can scour my bloody mail for a fortnight. for the space of a few feet, tyrion could hear every word of their haggling, but when he moved on, the voices faded quickly. small wonder varys did not want me to climb the bloody ladder, tyrion thought, smiling in the dark. little birds indeed. he came to the third door and fumbled about for a long time before his fingers brushed a small iron hook set between two stones. when he pulled down on it, there was a soft rumble that sounded loud as an avalanche in the stillness, and a square of dull orange light opened a foot to his left. the hearth! he almost laughed. the fireplace was full of hot ash, and a black log with a hot orange heart burning within. he edged past gingerly, taking quick steps so as not to burn his boots, the warm cinders crunching softly under his heels. when he found himself in what had once been his bedchamber, he stood a long moment, breathing the silence. had his father heard? would he reach for his sword, raise the hue and cry? mtord? a woman's voice called. that might have hurt me once, when i still felt pain. the first step was the hardest. when he reached the bed tyrion pulled the draperies aside and there she was, turning toward him with a sleepy smile on her lips. it died when she saw him. she pulled the blankets up to her chin, as if that would protect her. were you expecting someone taller, sweetling? big wet tears filled her eyes. i never meant those things i said, the queen made me. please. your father frightens me so. she sat up, letting the blanket slide down to her lap. beneath it she was naked, but for the chain about her throat. a chain of linked golden hands, each holding the next. my lady shae, tyrion said softly. all the time i sat in the black cell waiting to die, i kept remembering how beautiful you were, in silk or roughspun or nothing at all... m'lord will be back soon. you should go, or... did you come to take me away? did you ever like it? he cupped her cheek, remembering all the times he had done this before. all the times he'd slid his hands around her waist, squeezed her small firm breasts, stroked her short dark hair, touched her lips, her cheeks, her ears. all the times he had opened her with a finger to probe her secret sweetness and make her moan. did you ever like my touch? more than anything, she said, my giant of lannister. that was the worst thing you could have said, sweetling. tyrion slid a hand under his father's chain, and twisted. the links tightened, digging into her neck. for hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm, he said. he gave cold hands another twist as the warm ones beat away his tears. afterward he found lord tywin's dagger on the bedside table and shoved it through his belt. a lion-headed mace, a poleaxe, and a crossbow had been hung on the walls. the poleaxe would be clumsy to wield inside a castle, and the mace was too high to reach, but a large wood-and-iron chest had been placed against the wall directly under the crossbow. he climbed up, pulled down the bow and a leather quiver packed with quarrels, jammed a foot into the stirrup, and pushed down until the bowstring cocked. then he slipped a bolt into the notch. jaime had lectured him more than once on the drawbacks of crossbows. if lum and lester emerged from wherever they were talking, he'd never have time to reload, but at least he'd take one down to hell with him. lum, if he had a choice. you'll have to clean your own mail, lum. you lose. waddling to the door, he listened a moment, then eased it open slowly. a lamp burned in a stone niche, casting wan yellow light over the empty hallway. only the flame was moving. tyrion slid out, holding the crossbow down against his leg. he found his father where he knew he'd find him, seated in the dimness of the privy tower, bedrobe hiked up around his hips. at the sound of steps, lord tywin raised his eyes. tyrion gave him a mocking half bow. my lord. tyrion. if he was afraid, tywin lannister gave no hint of it. who released you from your cell? i'd love to tell you, but i swore a holy oath. the eunuch, his father decided. i'll have his head for this. is that my crossbow? put it down. will you punish me if i refuse, father? this escape is folly. you are not to be killed, if that is what you fear. it's still my intent to send you to the wall, but i could not do it without lord tyre 11' s consent. put down the crossbow and we will go back to my chambers and talk of it. we can talk here just as well. perhaps i don't choose to go to the wall, father. it's bloody cold up there, and i believe i've had enough coldness from you. so just tell me something, and i'll be on my way. one simple question, you owe me that much. i owe you nothing. you've given me less than that, all my life, but you'll give me this. what did you do with tysha? tysha? he does not even remember her name. the girl i married. oh, yes. your first whore. tyrion took aim at his father's chest. the next time you say that word, i'll kill you. you do not have the courage. shall we find out? it's a short word, and it seems to come so easily to your lips. tyrion gestured impatiently with the bow. tysha. what did you do with her, after my little lesson? i don't recall. try harder. did you have her killed? his father pursed his lips. there was no reason for that, she'd learned her place... and had been well paid for her day's work, i seem to recall. i suppose the steward sent her on her way. i never thought to inquire. on her way where? wherever whores go. tyrion's finger clenched. the crossbow whanged just as lord tywin started to rise. the bolt slammed into him above the groin and he sat back down with a grunt. the quarrel had sunk deep, right to the fletching. blood seeped out around the shaft, dripping down into his pubic hair and over his bare thighs. you shot me, he said incredulously, his eyes glassy with shock. you always were quick to grasp a situation, my lord, tyrion said. that must be why you're the hand of the king. you... you are no... no son of mine. now that's where you're wrong, father. why, i believe i'm you writ small. do me a kindness now, and die quickly. i have a ship to catch. for once, his father did what tyrion asked him. the proof was the sudden stench, as his bowels loosened in the moment of death. well, he was in the right place for it, tyrion thought. but the stink that filled the privy gave ample evidence that the oft-repeated jape about his father was just another lie. lord tywin lannister did not, in the end, shit gold. 