each night seemed colder than the last. the cell had neither fireplace nor brazier. the only window was too high to allow her a view and too small to squeeze through, but more than large enough to let in the chill. cersei had torn up the first shift they gave her, demanding the return of her own clothes, but that only left her naked and shivering. when they brought her another shift, she pulled it down over her head and thanked them, choking upon the words. the window let in sounds as well. that was the only way the queen had to know what might be happening in the city. the septas who brought her food would tell her nothing. she hated that. jaime would be coming for her, but how would she know when he arrived? cersei only hoped he was not so foolish as to go racing ahead of his army. he would need every sword to deal with the ragged horde of poor fellows surrounding the great sept. she asked about her twin often, but her gaolers gave no answer. she asked about ser loras too. at last report the knight of flowers had been dying on dragonstone of wounds received whilst taking the castle. let him die, cersei thought, and let him be quick about it. the boy's death would mean an empty place on the kingsguard, and that might be her salvation. but the septas were as close-mouthed about loras tyrell as they were about jaime. lord qyburn had been her last and only visitor. her world had a population of four: herself and her three gaolers, pious and unyielding. septa unella was big-boned and mannish, with callused hands and homely, scowling features. septa moelle had stiff white hair and small mean eyes perpetually crinkled in suspicion, peering out of a wrinkled face as sharp as the blade of an axe. septa scolera was thick-waisted and short, with heavy breasts, olive skin, and a sour smell to her, like milk on the verge of going bad. they brought her food and water, emptied her chamber pot, and took away her shift for washing every few days, leaving her to huddle naked under her blanket until it was returned to her. sometimes scolera would read to her from the seven-pointed star or the book of holy prayer, but elsewise none of them would speak with her or answer any of her questions. she hated and despised all three of them, almost as much as she hated and despised the men who had betrayed her. false friends, treacherous servants, men who had professed undying love, even her own blood ... all of them had deserted her in her hour of need. osney kettleblack, that weakling, had broken beneath the lash, filling the high sparrow's ears with secrets he should have taken to his grave. his brothers, scum of the streets whom she had raised high, did no more than sit upon their hands. aurane waters, her admiral, had fled to sea with the dromonds she had built for him. orton merryweather had gone running back to longtable, taking his wife, taena, who had been the queen's one true friend in these terrible times. harys swyft and grand maester pycelle had abandoned her to captivity and offered the realm to the very men who had conspired against her. meryn trant and boros blount, the king's sworn protectors, were nowhere to be found. even her cousin lancel, who once had claimed to love her, was one of her accusers. her uncle had refused to help her rule when she would have made him the king's hand. and jaime ... no, that she could not believe, would not believe. jaime would be here once he knew of her plight. come at once, she had written to him. help me. save me. i need you now as i have never needed you before. i love you. i love you. i love you. come at once. qyburn had sworn that he would see that her letter reached her twin, off in the riverlands with his army. qyburn had never returned, however. for all she knew, he might be dead, his head impaled upon a spike above the city keep's gates. or perhaps he was languishing in one of the black cells beneath the red keep, her letter still unsent. the queen had asked after him a hundred times, but her captors would not speak of him. all she knew for certain was that jaime had not come. not yet, she told herself. but soon. and once he comes the high sparrow and his bitches will sing a different song. she hated feeling helpless. she had threatened, but her threats had been received with stony faces and deaf ears. she had commanded, but her commands had been ignored. she had invoked the mother's mercy, appealing to the natural sympathy of one woman for another, but the three shriveled septas must have put their womanhood aside when they spoke their vows. she had tried charm, speaking to them gently, accepting each new outrage meekly. they were not swayed. she had offered them rewards, promised leniency, honors, gold, positions at court. they treated her promises as they did her threats. and she had prayed. oh, how she had prayed. prayer was what they wanted, so she served it to them, served it on her knees as if she were some common trollop of the streets and not a daughter of the rock. she had prayed for relief, for deliverance, for jaime. loudly she asked the gods to defend her in her innocence; silently she prayed for her accusers to suffer sudden, painful deaths. she prayed until her knees were raw and bloody, until her tongue felt so thick and heavy that she was like to choke on it. all the prayers they had taught her as a girl came back to cersei in her cell, and she made up new ones as needed, calling on the mother and the maiden, on the father and the warrior, on the crone and the smith. she had even prayed to the stranger. any god in a storm. the seven proved as deaf as their earthly servants. cersei gave them all the words that she had in her, gave them everything but tears. that they will never have, she told herself. she hated feeling weak. if the gods had given her the strength they gave jaime and that swaggering oaf robert, she could have made her own escape. oh, for a sword and the skill to wield it. she had a warrior's heart, but the gods in their blind malice had given her the feeble body of a woman. the queen had tried to fight them early on, but the septas had overwhelmed her. there were too many of them, and they were stronger than they looked. ugly old women, everyone of them, but all that praying and scrubbing and beating novices with sticks had left them tough as roots. and they would not let her rest. night or day, whenever the queen closed her eyes to sleep, one of her captors would appear to wake her and demand that she confess her sins. she stood accused of adultery, fornication, high treason, even murder, for osney kettleblack had confessed to smothering the last high septon at her command. i am come to hear you tell of all your murders and fornications, septa unella would growl when she shook the queen awake. septa moelle would tell her that it was her sins that kept her sleepless. only the innocent know the peace of untroubled sleep. confess your sins, and you will sleep like a newborn babe. wake and sleep and wake again, every night was broken into pieces by the rough hands of her tormentors, and every night was colder and crueler than the night before. the hour of the owl, the hour of the wolf, the hour of the nightingale, moonriseand moonset, dusk and dawn, they staggered past like drunkards. what hour was it? what day was it? where was she? was this a dream, or had she woken? the little shards of sleep that they allowed her turned into razors, slicing at her wits. each day found her duller than the day before, exhausted and feverish. she had lost all sense of how long she had been imprisoned in this cell, high up in one of the seven towers of the great sept of baelor. / will grow old and die here, she thought, despairing. cersei could not allow that to happen. her son had need of her. the realm had need of her. she had to free herself, no matter what the risk. her world had shrunk to a cell six feet square, a chamber pot, a lumpy pallet, and a brown wool blanket thin as hope that made her skin itch, but she was still lord tywin's heir, a daughter of the rock. exhausted by her lack of sleep, shivering from the cold that stole into the tower cell each night, feverish and famished by turns, cersei came at last to know she must confess. that night, when septa unella came to wrench her out of sleep, she found the queen waiting on her knees. i have sinned, said cersei. her tongue was thick in her mouth, her lips raw and chapped. i have sinned most grievously. i see that now. how could i have been so blind for so long? the crone came to me with her lamp raised high, and by its holy light i saw the road that i must walk. i want to be clean again. i want only absolution. please, good septa, i beg of you, take me to the high septon so that i might confess my crimes and fornications. i will tell him, your grace, said septa unella. his high holiness will be most pleased. only through confession and true repentance may our immortal souls be saved. and for the rest of that long night they let her sleep. hours and hours of blessed sleep. the owl and the wolf and the nightingale slipped by for once with their passage unseen and unremarked, whilst cersei dreamed a long sweet dream where jaime was her husband and their son was still alive. come morning, the queen felt almost like herself again. when her captors came for her, she made pious noises at them again and told them how determined she was to confess her sins and be forgiven for all that she had done. we rejoice to hear it, said septa moelle. it will be a great weight off your soul, said septa scolera. you will feel much better afterward, your grace. your grace. those two simple words thrilled her. during her long captivity, her gaolers had not oft bothered with even that simple courtesy. his high holiness awaits, said septa unella. cersei lowered her head, humble and obedient. might i be allowed to bathe first? i am in no fit state to attend him. you may wash later if his high holiness allows, said septa unella. it is the cleanliness of your immortal soul that should concern you now, not such vanities of the flesh. the three septas led her down the tower stairs, with septa unella going before her and septa moelle and septa scolera at her heels, as if they were afraid that she might try to flee. it has been so long since i have had a visitor, cersei murmured in a quiet voice as they made their descent. is the king well? i ask only as a mother, fearful for her child. his grace is in good health, said septa scolera, and well protected, day and night. the queen is with him, always. / am the queen! she swallowed, smiled, and said, that is good to know. tommen loves her so. i never believed those terrible things that were being said of her. had margaery tyrell somehow wriggled free of the accusations of fornication, adultery, and high treason? was there a trial? soon, said septa scolera, but her brother— hush. septa unella turned to glare back over her shoulder at scolera. you chatter too much, you foolish old woman. it is not for us to speak of such things. scolera lowered her head. pray forgive me. they made the rest of the descent in silence. the high sparrow received her in his sanctum, an austere seven-sided chamber where crudely carved faces of the seven stared out from the stone walls with expressions almost as sour and disapproving as his high holiness himself. when she entered, he was seated behind a rough-hewn table, writing. the high septon had not changed since the last time she had been in his presence, the day he had her seized and imprisoned. he was still a scrawny grey-haired man with a lean, hard, half-starved look, his face sharp-featured, lined, his eyes suspicious. in place of the rich robes of his predecessors, he wore a shapeless tunic of undyed wool that fell down to his ankles. your grace, he said, by way of greeting. i understand that you wish to make confession. cersei dropped to her knees. i do, high holiness. the crone came to me as i slept with her lamp held high- to be sure. unella, you will stay and make a record of her grace's words. scolera, moelle, you have my leave to go. he pressed the fingers of his hands together, the same gesture she had seen her father use a thousand times. septa unella took a seat behind her, spread out a parchment, dipped a quill in maester's ink. cersei felt a stab of fright. once i have confessed, will i be permitted to— your grace shall be dealt with according to your sins. this man is implacable, she realized once again. she gathered herself for a moment. mother have mercy on me, then. i have lain with men outside the bonds of marriage. i confess it. who? the high septon's eyes were fixed on hers. cersei could hear unella writing behind her. her quill made a faint, soft scratching sound. lancel lannister, my cousin. and osney kettleblack. both men had confessed to bedding her, it would do her no good to deny it. his brothers too. both of them. she had no way of knowing what osfryd and osmund might say. safer to confess too much than too little. it does not excuse my sin, high holiness, but i was lonely and afraid. the gods took king robert from me, my love and my protector. i was alone, surrounded by schemers, false friends, and traitors who were conspiring at the death of my children. i did not know who to trust, so i ... i used the only means that i had to bind the kettleblacks to me. by which you mean your female parts? my flesh. she pressed a hand to her face, shuddering. when she lowered it again, her eyes were wet with tears. yes. may the maid forgive me. it was for my children, though, for the realm. i took no pleasure in it. the kettleblacks ... they are hard men, and cruel, and they used me roughly, but what else was i to do? tommen needed men around him i could trust. his grace was protected by the kingsguard. the kingsguard stood by useless as his brother joffrey died, murdered at his own wedding feast. i watched one son die, i could not bear to lose another. i have sinned, i have committed wanton fornication, but i did it for tommen. forgive me, high holiness, but i would open my legs for every man in king's landing if that was what i had to do to keep my children safe. forgiveness comes only from the gods. what of ser lancel, who was your cousin and your lord husband's squire? did you take him into your bed to win his loyalty as well? lancel. cersei hesitated. careful, she told herself, lancel will have told him everything. lancel loved me. he was half a boy, but i never doubted his devotion to me or my son. and yet you still corrupted him. i was lonely. she choked back a sob. i had lost my husband, my son, my lord father. i was regent, but a queen is still a woman, and women are weak vessels, easily tempted ... your high holiness knows the truth of that. even holy septas have been known to sin. i took comfort with lancel. he was kind and gentle and i needed someone. it was wrong, i know, but i had no one else ... a woman needs to be loved, she needs a man beside her, she ... she ... she began to sob uncontrollably. the high septon made no move to comfort her. he sat there with his hard eyes fixed on her, watching her weep, as stony as the statues of the seven in the sept above. long moments passed, but finally her tears were all dried up. by then her eyes were red and raw from crying, and she felt as if she might faint. the high sparrow was not done with her, however. these are common sins, he said. the wickedness of widows is well-known, and all women are wantons at heart, given to using their wiles and their beauty to work their wills on men. there is no treason here, so long as you did not stray from your marriage bed whilst his grace king robert was still alive. never, she whispered, shivering. never, i swear it. he paid that no mind. there are other charges laid against your grace, crimes far more grievous than simple fornications. you admit ser osney kettleblack was your lover, and ser osney insists that he smothered my predecessor at your behest. he further insists that he bore false witness against queen margaery and her cousins, telling tales of fornications, adultery, and high treason, again at your behest. no, said cersei. it is not true. i love margaery as i would a daughter. and the other ... i complained of the high septon, i admit it. he was tyrion's creature, weak and corrupt, a stain upon our holy faith. your high holiness knows that as well as i. it may be that osney thought that his death would please me. if so, i bear some part of the blame ... but murder? no. of that i am innocent. take me to the sept and i will stand before the father's judgment seat and swear the truth of that. in time, said the high septon. you also stand accused of conspiring at the murder of your own lord husband, our late beloved king robert, first of his name. lancel, cersei thought. robert was killed by a boar. do they say i am a skinchanger now? a warg? am i accused of killing joffrey too, my own sweet son, my firstborn? no. just your husband. do you deny it? i deny it. i do. before gods and men, i deny it. he nodded. last of all, and worst of all, there are some who say your children were not fathered by king robert, that they are bastards born of incest and adultery. stannis says that, cersei said at once. a lie, a lie, a palpable lie. stannis wants the iron throne for himself, but his brother's children stand in his way, so he must needs claim that they are not his brother's. that filthy letter ... there is no shred of truth to it. i deny it. the high septon placed both hands flat upon the table and pushed himself to his feet. good. lord stannis has turned from the truth of the seven to worship a red demon, and his false faith has no place in these seven kingdoms. that was almost reassuring. cersei nodded. even so, his high holiness went on, these are terrible charges, and the realm must know the truth of them. if your grace has told it true, no doubt a trial will prove your innocence. a trial, still. i have confessed— —to certain sins, aye. others you deny. your trial will separate the truths from the falsehoods. i shall ask the seven to forgive the sins you have confessed and pray that you be found innocent of these other accusations. cersei rose slowly from her knees. i bow to the wisdom of your high holiness/' she said, but if i might beg for just one drop of the mother's mercy, i ... it has been so long since i last saw my son, please ... the old man's eyes were chips of flint. it would not be fitting to allow you near the king until you have been cleansed of all your wickedness. you have taken the first step on your path back to righteousness, however, and in light of that i shall permit you other visitors. one each day. the queen began to weep again. this time the tears were true. you are too kind. thank you. the mother is merciful. it is her that you should thank. moelle and scolera were waiting to lead her back up to her tower cell. unella followed close behind them. we have all been praying for your grace, septa moelle said as they were climbing. yes, septa scolera echoed, and you must feel so much lighter now, clean and innocent as a maid on the morning of her wedding. i fucked jaime on the morning of my wedding, the queen recalled. i do, she said, i feel reborn, as if a festering boil has been lanced and now at last i can begin to heal. i could almost fly. she imagined how sweet it would be to slam an elbow into septa scolera's face and send her careening down the spiral steps. if the gods were good, the wrinkled old cunt might crash into septa unella and take her down with her. it is good to see you smiling again, scolera said. his high holiness said i might have visitors? he did, said septa unella. if your grace will tell us whom you wish to see, we will send word to them. jaime, i need jaime. but if her twin was in the city, why had he not come to her? it might be wiser to wait on jaime until she had a better notion of what was happening beyond the walls of the great sept of baelor. my uncle, she said. ser kevan lannister, my father's brother. is he in the city? he is, said septa unella. the lord regent has taken up residence in the red keep. we will send for him at once. thank you, said cersei, thinking, lord regent, is it? she could not pretend to be surprised. a humble and a contrite heart proved to have benefits over and beyond cleansing the soul of sin. that night the queen was moved to a larger cell two floors down, with a window she could actually look out of and warm, soft blankets for her bed. and when time came for supper, instead of stale bread and oaten porridge, she was served a roast capon, a bowl of crisp greens sprinkled with crushed walnuts, and a mound of mashed neeps aswim in butter. that night she crawled into her bed with a full stomach for the first time since she was taken, and slept through the black watches of the night undisturbed. the next morning, with the dawn, there came her uncle. cersei was still at her breakfast when the door swung open and ser kevan lannister stepped through. leave us, he told her gaolers. septa unella ushered scolera and moelle away and closed the door behind them. the queen rose to her feet. ser kevan looked older than when she'd seen him last. he was a big man, broad in the shoulder and thick about the waist, with a close-cropped blond beard that followed the line of his heavy jaw and short blond hair in full retreat from his brow. a heavy woolen cloak, dyed crimson, was clasped at one shoulder with a golden brooch in the shape of a lion's head. thank you for coming, the queen said. her uncle frowned. you should sit. there are things that i must needs tell you— she did not want to sit. you are still angry with me. i hear it in your voice. forgive me, uncle. it was wrong of me to throw my wine at you, but— you think i care about a cup of wine? lancel is my son, cersei. your own nephew. if i am angry with you, that is the cause. you should have looked after him, guided him, found him a likely girl of good family. instead you— i know. i know. lancel wanted me more than i ever wanted him. he still does, i will wager. i was alone, weak. please. uncle. oh, uncle. it is so good to see your face, your sweet sweet face. i have done wicked things, i know, but i could not bear for you to hate me. she threw her arms around him, kissed his cheek. forgive me. forgive me. ser kevan suffered the embrace for a few heartbeats before he finally raised his own arms to return it. his hug was short and awkward. enough, he said, his voice still flat and cold. you are forgiven. now sit. i bring some hard tidings, cersei. his words frightened her. has something happened to tommen? please, no. i have been so afraid for my son. no one will tell me anything. please tell me that tommen is well. his grace is well. he asks about you often. ser kevan laid his hands on her shoulders, held her at arm's length. jaime, then? is it jaime? no. jaime is still in the riverlands, somewhere. somewhere? she did not like the sound of that. he took raventree and accepted lord blackwood's surrender, said her uncle, but on his way back to riverrun he left his tail and went off with a woman. a woman? cersei stared at him, uncomprehending. what woman? why? where did they go? no one knows. we've had no further word of him. the woman may have been the evenstar's daughter, lady brienne. her. the queen remembered the maid of tarth, a huge, ugly, shambling thing who dressed in man's mail. jaime would never abandon me for such a creature. my raven never reached him, elsewise he would have come. we have had reports of sellswords landing all over the south, ser kevan was saying. tarth, the stepstones, cape wrath ... where stannis found the coin to hire a free company i would dearly love to know. i do not have the strength to deal with them, not here. mace tyrell does, but he refuses to bestir himself until this matter with his daughter has been settled. a headsman would settle margaery quick enough. cersei did not care a fig for stannis or his sellswords. the others take him and the tyrells both. let them slaughter each other, the realm will be the better for it. please, uncle, take me out of here. how? by force of arms? ser kevan walked to the window and gazed out, frowning. i would need to make an abbatoir of this holy place. and i do not have the men. the best part of our forces were at riverrun with your brother. i had no time to raise up a new host. he turned back to face her. i have spoken with his high holiness. he will not release you until you have atoned for your sins. i have confessed. atoned, i said. before the city. a walk— no. she knew what her uncle was about to say, and she did not want to hear it. never. tell him that, if you speak again. i am a queen, not some dockside whore. no harm would come to you. no one will touch— no, she said, more sharply. i would sooner die. ser kevan was unmoved. if that is your wish, you may soon have it granted. his high holiness is resolved that you be tried for regicide, deicide, incest, and high treason. deicide? she almost laughed. when did i kill a god? the high septon speaks for the seven here on earth. strike at him, and you are striking at the gods themselves. her uncle raised a hand before she could protest. it does no good to speak of such things. not here. the time for all that is at trial. he gazed about her cell. the look on his face spoke volumes. someone is listening. even here, even now, she dare not speak freely. she took a breath. who will try me? the faith, her uncle said, unless you insist on a trial by battle. in which case you must be championed by a knight of the kingsguard. whatever the outcome, your rule is at an end. i will serve as tommen's regent until he comes of age. macetyrell has been named king's hand. grand maester pycelle and ser harys swyft will continue as before, but paxter redwyne is now lord admiral and randyll tarly has assumed the duties of justiciar. tyrell bannermen, the both of them. the whole governance of the realm was being handed to her enemies, queen margaery's kith and kin. margaery stands accused as well. her and those cousins of hers. how is it that the sparrows freed her and not me? randyll tarly insisted. he was the first to reach king's landing when this storm broke, and he brought his army with him. the tyrell girls will still be tried, but the case against them is weak, his high holiness admits. all of the men named as the queen's lovers have denied the accusation or recanted, save for your maimed singer, who appears to be half-mad. so the high septon handed the girls over to tarly's custody and lord randyll swore a holy oath to deliver them for trial when the time comes. and her accusers? the queen demanded. who holds them? osney kettleblack and the blue bard are here, beneath the sept. the redwyne twins have been declared innocent, and hamish the harper has died. the rest are in the dungeons under the red keep, in the charge of your man qyburn. qyburn, thought cersei. that was good, one straw at least that she could clutch. lord qyburn had them, and lord qyburn could do wonders. and horrors. he can do horrors as well. there is more, worse. will you sit down? sit down? cersei shook her head. what could be worse? she was to be tried for high treason whilst the little queen and her cousins flew off as free as birds. tell me. what is it? myrcella. we have had grave news from dome. tyrion, she said at once. tyrion had sent her little girl to dome, and cersei had dispatched ser balon swann to bring her home. all dornishmen were snakes, and the martells were the worst of them. the red viper had even tried to defend the imp, had come within a hairbreadth of a victory that would have allowed the dwarf to escape the blame for joffrey's murder. it's him, he's been in dome all this time, and now he's seized my daughter. ser kevan gave her another scowl. myrcella was attacked by a dornish knight named gerold dayne. she's alive, but hurt. he slashed her face open, she ... i'm sorry ... she lost an ear. an ear. cersei stared at him, aghast. she was just a child, my precious princess. she was so pretty, too. he cut off her ear. and prince doran and his dornish knights, where were they? they could not defend one little girl? where was arys oakheart? slain, defending her. dayne cut him down, it's said. the sword of the morning had been a dayne, the queen recalled, but he was long dead. who was this ser gerold and why would he wish to harm her daughter? she could not make any sense of this, unless ... tyrion lost half his nose in the battle of the blackwater. slashing her face, cutting off an ear ... the imp's grubby little fingers are all over this. prince doran says nothing of your brother. and balon swann writes that myrcella puts it all on this gerold dayne. darkstar, they call him. she gave a bitter laugh. whatever they call him, he is my brother's catspaw. tyrion has friends amongst the dornish. the imp planned this all along. it was tyrion who betrothed myrcella to prince trystane. now i see why. you see tyrion in every shadow. he is a creature of the shadows. he killed joffrey. he killed father. did you think he would stop there? i feared that the imp was still in king's landing plotting harm to tommen, but he must have gone to dome instead to kill myrcella first. cersei paced the width of the cell. i need to be with tommen. these kingsguard knights are as useless as nipples on a breastplate. she rounded on her uncle. ser arys was killed, you said. at the hands of this man darkstar, yes. dead, he's dead, you are certain of that? that is what we have been told. then there is an empty place amongst the kingsguard. it must be filled at once. tommen must be protected. lordtarly is drawing up a list of worthy knights for your brother to consider, but until jaime reappears ... the king can give a man a white cloak. tommen's a good boy. tell him who to name and he will name him. and who would you have him name? she did not have a ready answer. my champion will need a new name as well as a new face. qyburn will know. trust him in this. you and i have had our differences, uncle, but for the blood we share and the love you bore my father, for tommen's sake and the sake of his poor maimed sister, do as i ask you. go to lord qyburn on my behalf, bring him a white cloak, and tell him that the time has come. on the last night of her imprisonment, the queen could not sleep. each time she closed her eyes, her head filled with forebodings and fantasies of the morrow. / will have guards, she told herself. they will keep the crowds away. no one will be allowed to touch me. the high sparrow had promised her that much. even so, she was afraid. on the day myrcella sailed for dome, the day of the bread riots, gold cloaks had been posted all along the route of the procession, but the mob had broken through their lines to tear the old fat high septon into pieces and rape lollys stokeworth half a hundred times. and if that pale soft stupid creature could incite the animals when fully clothed, how much more lust would a queen inspire? cersei paced her cell, restless as the caged lions that had lived in the bowels of easterly rock when she was a girl, a legacy of her grandfather's time. she and jaime used to dare each other to climb into their cage, and once she worked up enough courage to slip her hand between two bars and touch one of the great tawny beasts. she was always bolder than her brother. the lion had turned his head to stare at her with huge golden eyes. then he licked her fingers. his tongue was as rough as a rasp, but even so she would not pull her hand back, not until jaime took her by the shoulders and yanked her away from the cage. your turn, she told him afterward. pull his mane, i dare you. he never did. i should have had the sword, not him. barefoot and shivering she paced, a thin blanket draped about her shoulders. she was anxious for the day to come. by evening it would all be done. a little walk and i'll be home, i'll be back with tommen, in my own chambers inside maegor's holdfast. her uncle said it was the only way to save herself. was it, though? she could not trust her uncle, no more than she trusted this high septon. / could still refuse. i could still insist upon my innocence and hazard all upon a trial. but she dare not let the faith sit in judgment on her, as that margaery tyrell meant to do. that might serve the little rose well enough, but cersei had few friends amongst the septas and sparrows around this new high septon. her only hope was trial by battle, and for that she must needs have a champion. if jaime had not lost his hand ... that road led nowhere, though. jaime's sword hand was gone, and so was he, vanished with the woman brienne somewhere in the riverlands. the queen had to find another defender or today's ordeal would be the least of her travails. her enemies were accusing her of treason. she had to reach tommen, no matter the costs. he loves me. he will not refuse his own mother. joff was stubborn and unpredictable, but tommen is a good little boy, a good little king. he will do as he is told. if she stayed here, she was doomed, and the only way she would return to the red keep was by walking. the high sparrow had been adamant, and ser kevan refused to lift a finger against him. no harm will come to me today, cersei said when the day's first light brushed her window. only my pride will suffer. the words rang hollow in her ears. jaime may yet come. she pictured him riding through the morning mists, his golden armor bright in the light of the rising sun. jaime, if you ever loved me ... when her gaolers came for her, septa unella, septa moelle, and septa scolera led the procession. with them were four novices and two of the silent sisters. the sight of the silent sisters in their grey robes filled the queen with sudden terrors. why are they here? am i to die? the silent sisters attended to the dead. the high septon promised that no harm would come to me. nor will it. septa unella beckoned to the novices. they brought lye soap, a basin of warm water, a pair of shears, and a long straightrazor. the sight of the steel sent a shiver through her. they mean to shave me. a little more humiliation, a raisin for my porridge. she would not give them the pleasure of hearing her beg. / am cersei of house lannister, a lion of the rock, the rightful gueen of these seven kingdoms, trueborn daughter of tywin lannister. and hair grows back. get on with it, she said. the elder of the two silent sisters took up the shears. a practiced barber, no doubt; her order often cleaned the corpses of the noble slain before returning them to their kin, and trimming beards and cutting hair was part of that. the woman bared the queen's head first. cersei sat as still as a stone statue as the shears clicked. drifts of golden hair fell to the floor. she had not been allowed to tend it properly penned up in this cell, but even unwashed and tangled it shone where the sun touched it. my crown, the queen thought. they took the other crown away from me, and now they are stealing this one as well. when her locks and curls were piled up around her feet, one of the novices soaped her head and the silent sister scraped away the stubble with a razor. cersei hoped that would be the end of it, but no. remove your shift, your grace, septa unella commanded. here? the queen asked. why? you must be shorn. shorn, she thought, like a sheep. she yanked the shift over her head and tossed it to the floor. do what you will. then it was the soap again, the warm water, and the razor. the hair beneath her arms went next, then her legs, and last of all the fine golden down that covered her mound. when the silent sister crept between her legs with the razor, cersei found herself remembering all the times that jaime had knelt where she was kneeling now, planting kisses on the inside of her thighs, making her wet. his kisses were always warm. the razor was ice-cold. when the deed was done she was as naked and vulnerable as a woman could be. not even a hair to hide behind. a little laugh burst from her lips, bleak and bitter. does your grace find this amusing? said septa scolera. no, septa, said cersei. but one day i will have your tongue ripped out with hot pincers, and that will be hilarious. one of the novices had brought a robe for her, a soft white septa's robe to cover her as she made her way down the tower steps and through the sept, so any worshipers they met along the way might be spared the sight of naked flesh. seven save us all, what hypocrites they are. will i be permitted a pair of sandals? she asked. the streets are filthy. not so filthy as your sins, said septa moelle. his high holiness has commanded that you present yourself as the gods made you. did you have sandals on your feet when you came forth from your lady mother's womb? no, septa, the queen was forced to say. then you have your answer. a bell began to toll. the queen's long imprisonment was at an end. cersei pulled the robe tighter, grateful for its warmth, and said, let us go. her son awaited her across the city. the sooner she set out, the sooner she would see him. the rough stone of the steps scraped her soles as cersei lannister made her descent. she had come to baelor's sept a queen, riding in a litter. she was leaving bald and barefoot. but i am leaving. that is all that matters. the tower bells were singing, summoning the city to bear witness to her shame. the great sept of baelor was crowded with faithful come for the dawn service, the sound of their prayers echoing off the dome overhead, but when the queen's procession made its appearance a sudden silence fell and a thousand eyes turned to follow her as she made her way down the aisle, past the place where her lord father had lain in state after his murder. cersei swept by them, looking neither right nor left. her bare feet slapped against the cold marble floor. she could feel the eyes. behind their altars, the seven seemed to watch as well. in the hall of lamps, a dozen warrior's sons awaited her coming. rainbow cloaks hung down their backs, and the crystals that crested their greathelms glittered in the lamplight. their armor was silver plate polished to a mirror sheen, but underneath, she knew, every man of them wore a hair shirt. their kite shields all bore the same device: a crystal sword shining in the darkness, the ancient badge of those the smallfolk called swords. their captain knelt before her. perhaps your grace will recall me. i am ser theodan the true, and his high holiness has given me command of your escort. my brothers and i will see you safely through the city. cersei's gaze swept across the faces of the men behind him. and there he was: lancel, her cousin, ser kevan's son, who had once professed to love her, before he decided that he loved the gods more. my blood and my betrayer. she would not forget him. you may rise, ser theodan. i am ready. the knight stood, turned, raised a hand. two of his men stepped to the towering doors and pushed them open, and cersei walked through them into the open air, blinking at the sunlight like a mole roused from its burrow. a gusty wind was blowing, and it set the bottom of her robe snapping and flapping at her legs. the morning air was thick with the old familiar stinks of king's landing. she breathed in the scents of sour wine, bread baking, rotting fish and nightsoil, smoke and sweat and horse piss. no flower had ever smelled so sweet. huddled in her robe, cersei paused atop the marble steps as the warrior's sons formed up around her. it came to her suddenly that she had stood in this very spot before, on the day lord eddard stark had lost his head. that was not supposed to happen. joff was supposed to spare his life and send him to the wall. stark's eldest son would have followed him as lord of winterfell, but sansa would have stayed at court, a hostage. varys and littlefinger had worked out the terms, and ned stark had swallowed his precious honor and confessed his treason to save his daughter's empty little head. / would have made sansa a good marriage. a lannister marriage. notjoff, of course, but lancet might have suited, or one of his younger brothers. petyr baelish had offered to wed the girl himself, she recalled, but of course that was impossible; he was much too lowborn. ifjoffhad only done as he was told, winterfell would never have gone to war, and father would have dealt with robert's brothers. instead joff had commanded that stark's head be struck off, and lord slynt and ser llyn payne had hastened to obey. it was just there, the queen recalled, gazing at the spot. janos slynt had lifted ned stark's head by the hair as his life's blood flowed down the steps, and after that there was no turning back. the memories seemed so distant. joffrey was dead, and all stark's sons as well. even her father had perished. and here she stood on the steps of the great sept again, only this time it was her the mob was staring at, not eddard stark. the wide marble plaza below was as crowded as it had been on the day that stark had died. everywhere she looked the queen saw eyes. the mob seemed to be equal parts men and women. some had children on their shoulders. beggars and thieves, taverners and tradesfolk, tanners and stableboys and mummers, the poorer sort of whore, all the scum had come out to see a queen brought low. and mingled in with them were the poor fellows, filthy, unshaven creatures armed with spears and axes and clad in bits of dinted plate, rusted mail, and cracked leather, under roughspun surcoats bleached white and blazoned with the seven-pointed star of the faith. the high sparrow's ragged army. part of her still yearned for jaime to appear and rescue her from this humiliation, but her twin was nowhere to be seen. nor was her uncle present. that did not surprise her. ser kevan had made his views plain during his last visit; her shame must not be allowed to tarnish the honor of easterly rock. no lions would walk with her today. this ordeal was hers and hers alone. septa unella stood to her right, septa moelleto her left, septa scolera behind her. if the queen should bolt or balk, the three hags would drag her back inside, and this time they would see to it that she never left her cell. cersei raised her head. beyond the plaza, beyond the sea of hungry eyes and gaping mouths and dirty faces, across the city, aegon's high hill rose in the distance, the towers and battlements of the red keep blushing pink in the light of the rising sun. it is not so far. once she reached its gates, the worst of her travails would be over. she would have her son again. she would have her champion. her uncle had promised her. tommen is waiting for me. my little king. i can do this. i must. septa unella stepped forward. a sinner comes before you, she declared. she is cersei of house lannister, queen dowager, mother to his grace king tommen, widow of his grace king robert, and she has committed grievous falsehoods and fornications. septa moelle moved up on the queen's right. this sinner has confessed her sins and begged for absolution and forgiveness. his high holiness has commanded her to demonstrate her repentance by putting aside all pride and artifice and presenting herself as the gods made her before the good people of the city. septa scolera finished. so now this sinner comes before you with a humble heart, shorn of secrets and concealments, naked before the eyes of gods and men, to make her walk of atonement. cersei had been a year old when her grandfather died. the first thing her father had done on his ascension was to expel his own father's grasping, lowborn mistress from easterly rock. the silks and velvets lord tytos had lavished on her and the jewelry she had taken for herself had been stripped from her, and she had been sent forth naked to walk through the streets of lannisport, so the west could see her for what she was. though she had been too young to witness the spectacle herself, cersei had heard the stories growing up from the mouths of washerwomen and guardsmen who had been there. they spoke of how the woman had wept and begged, of the desperate way she clung to her garments when she was commanded to disrobe, of her futile efforts to cover her breasts and her sex with her hands as she hobbled barefoot and naked through the streets to exile. vain and proud she was, before, she remembered one guard saying, so haughty you'd think she'd forgot she come from dirt. once we got her clothes off her, though, she was just another whore. if ser kevan and the high sparrow thought that it would be the same with her, they were very much mistaken. lord tywin's blood was in her. / am a lioness. i will not cringe for them. the queen shrugged off her robe. she bared herself in one smooth, unhurried motion, as if she were back in her own chambers disrobing for her bath with no one but her bedmaids looking on. when the cold wind touched her skin, she shivered violently. it took all her strength of will not to try and hide herself with her hands, as her grandfather's whore had done. her fingers tightened into fists, her nails digging into her palms. they were looking at her, all the hungry eyes. but what were they seeing? / am beautiful, she reminded himself. how many times had jaime told her that? even robert had given her that much, when he came to her bed in his cups to pay her drunken homage with his cock. they looked at ned stark the same way, though. she had to move. naked, shorn, barefoot, cersei made a slow descent down the broad marble steps. gooseprickles rose on her arms and legs. she held her chin high, as a queen should, and her escort fanned out ahead of her. the poor fellows shoved men aside to open a way through the crowd whilst the swords fell in on either side of her. septa unella, septa scolera, and septa moelle followed. behind them came the novice girls in white. whore! someone cried out. a woman's voice. women were always the cruelest where other women were concerned. cersei ignored her. there will be more, and worse. these creatures have no sweeter joy in life than jeering at their betters. she could not silence them, so she must pretend she did not hear them. she would not see them either. she would keep her eyes on aegon's high hill across the city, on the towers of the red keep shimmering in the light. that was where she would find her salvation, if her uncle had kept his part of their bargain. he wanted this. him and the high sparrow. and the little rose as well, i do not doubt. i have sinned and must atone, must parade my shame before the eyes of every beggar in the city. they think that this will break my pride, that it will make an end to me, but they are wrong. septa unella and septa moelle kept pace with her, with septa scolera scurrying behind, ringing a bell. shame, the old hag called, shame upon the sinner, shame, shame. somewhere off to the right, another voice sang counterpoint to hers, some baker's boy shouting, meat pies, three pence, hot meat pies here. the marble underfoot was cold and slick, and cersei had to step carefully for fear of slipping. their path took them past the statue of baelor the blessed, standing tall and serene upon his plinth, his face a study in benevolence. to look at him, you would never guess what a fool he'd been. the targaryen dynasty had produced kings both bad and good, but none as beloved as baelor, that pious gentle septon-king who loved the smallfolk and the gods in equal parts, yet imprisoned his own sisters. it was a wonder that his statue did not crumble at the sight of her bare breasts. tyrion used to say that king baelor was terrified of his own cock. once, she recalled, he had expelled all the whores from king's landing. he prayed for them as they were driven from the city gates, the histories said, but would not look at them. harlot, a voice screamed. another woman. something flew out of the crowd. some rotted vegetable. brown and oozing, it sailed above her head to splash at the foot of one of the poor fellows. / am not afraid. i am a lioness. she walked on. hot pies, the baker's boy was crying. getcha hot pies here. septa scolera rang her bell, singing, shame, shame, shame upon the sinner, shame, shame. the poor fellows went before them, forcing men aside with their shields, walling off a narrow path. cersei followed where they led, her head held stiffly, her eyes on the far distance. every step brought the red keep nearer. every step brought her closer to her son and her salvation. it seemed to take a hundred years to cross the plaza, but finally marble gave way to cobblestones beneath her feet, shops and stables and houses closed in all around them, and they began the descent of visenya's hill. the going was slower here. the street was steep and narrow, the crowds jammed together tightly. the poor fellows shoved at those who blocked the way, trying to move them aside, but there was nowhere to go, and those in the back of the crowd were shoving back. cersei tried to keep her head up, only to step in something slick and wet that made her slip. she might have fallen, but septa unella caught her arm and kept her on her feet. your grace should watch where she sets her feet. cersei wrenched herself free. yes, septa, she said in a meek voice, though she was angry enough to spit. the queen walked on, clad only in gooseprickles and pride. she looked for the red keep, but it was hidden now, walled off from her gaze by the tall timbered buildings to either side. shame, shame, sang septa scolera, her bell clanging. cersei tried to walk faster, but soon came up against the backs of the stars in front of her and had to slow her steps again. a man just ahead was selling skewers of roast meat from a cart, and the procession halted as the poor fellows moved him out of the way. the meat looked suspiciously like rat to cersei's eyes, but the smell of it filled the air, and half the men around them were gnawing away with sticks in hand by the time the street was clear enough for her to resume her trek. want some, your grace? one man called out. he was a big, burly brute with pig eyes, a massive gut, and an unkempt black beard that reminded her of robert. when she looked away in disgust, he flung the skewer at her. it struck her on the leg and tumbled to the street, and the half-cooked meat left a smear of grease and blood down her thigh. the shouting seemed louder here than on the plaza, perhaps because the mob was so much closer. whore and sinner were most common, but brotherfucker and cunt and traitor were flung at her as well, and now and again she heard someone shout out for stannis or margaery. the cobbles underfoot were filthy, and there was so little space that the queen could not even walk around the puddles. no one has ever died of wet feet, she told herself. she wanted to believe the puddles were just rainwater, though horse piss was just as likely. more refuse showered down from windows and balconies: half-rotted fruit, pails of beer, eggs that exploded into sulfurous stink when they cracked open on the ground. then someone flung a dead cat over the poor fellows and warrior's sons alike. the carcass hit the cobbles so hard that it burst open, spattering her lower legs with entrails and maggots. cersei walked on. / am blind and deaf, and they are worms, she told herself. shame, shame, the septas sang. chestnuts, hot roast chestnuts, a peddler cried. queen cunt, a drunkard pronounced solemnly from a balcony above, lifting his cup to her in a mocking toast. all hail the royal teats! words are wind, cersei thought. words cannot harm me. halfway down visenya's hill the queen fell for the first time, when her foot slipped in something that might have been nightsoil. when septa unella pulled her up, her knee was scraped and bloody. a ragged laugh rippled through the crowd, and some man shouted out an offer to kiss it and make it better. cersei looked behind her. she could still see the great dome and seven crystal towers of the great sept of baelor atop the hill. have i really come such a little way? worse, a hundred times worse, she had lost sight of the red keep. where ... where ... ? your grace. the captain of her escort stepped up beside her. cersei had forgotten his name. you must continue. the crowd is growing unruly. yes, she thought. unruly. i am not afraid— you should be. he yanked at her arm, pulling her along beside him. she staggered down the hill— downward, ever downward— wincing with every step, letting him support her. it should be jaime beside me. he would draw his golden sword and slash a path right through the mob, carving the eyes out of the head of every man who dared to look at her. the paving stones were cracked and uneven, slippery underfoot, and rough against her soft feet. her heel came down on something sharp, a stone or piece of broken crockery. cersei cried out in pain. i asked for sandals, she spat at septa unella. you could have given me sandals, you could have done that much. the knight wrenched at her arm again, as if she were some common serving wench. has he forgotten who i am? she was the queen of westeros; he had no right to lay rough hands on her. near the bottom of the hill, the slope gentled and the street began to widen. cersei could see the red keep again, shining crimson in the morning sun atop aegon's high hill. / must keep walking. she wrenched free of ser theodan's grasp. you do not need to drag me, ser. she limped on, leaving a trail of bloody footprints on the stones behind her. she walked through mud and dung, bleeding, goosefleshed, hobbling. all around her was a babble of sound. my wife has sweeter teats than those, a man shouted. a teamster cursed as the poor fellows ordered his wagon out of the way. shame, shame, shame on the sinner, chanted the septas. look at this one, a whore called from a brothel window, lifting her skirts to the men below, it's not had half as many cocks up it as hers. bells were ringing, ringing, ringing. that can't be the queen, a boy said, she's saggy as my mum. this is my penance, cersei told herself. / have sinned most grievously, this is my atonement. it will be over soon, it will be behind me, then i can forget. the queen began to see familiar faces. a bald man with bushy side-whiskers frowned down from a window with her father's frown, and for an instant looked so much like lord tywin that she stumbled. a young girl sat beneath a fountain, drenched in spray, and stared at her with melara hetherspoon's accusing eyes. she saw ned stark, and beside him little sansa with her auburn hair and a shaggy grey dog that might have been her wolf. every child squirming through the crowd became her brother tyrion, jeering at her as he had jeered when joffrey died. and there was joff as well, her son, her firstborn, her beautiful bright boy with his golden curls and his sweet smile, he had such lovely lips, he ... that was when she fell the second time. she was shaking like a leaf when they pulled her to her feet. please, she said. mother have mercy. i confessed. you did, said septa moelle. this is your atonement. it is not much farther, said septa unella. see? she pointed. up the hill, that's all. up the hill. that's all. it was true. they were at the foot of aegon's high hill, the castle above them. whore, someone screamed. brotherfucker, another voice added. abomination. want a suck on this, your grace? a man in a butcher's apron pulled his cock out of his breeches, grinning. it did not matter. she was almost home. cersei began to climb. if anything, the jeers and shouts were cruder here. her walk had not taken her through flea bottom, so its denizens had packed onto the lower slopes of aegon's high hill to see the show. the faces leering out at her from behind the shields and spears of the poor fellows seemed twisted, monstrous, hideous. pigs and naked children were everywhere underfoot, crippled beggars and cutpurses swarmed like roaches through the press. she saw men whose teeth had been filed into points, hags with goiters as big as their heads, a whore with a huge striped snake draped about breasts and shoulders, a man whose cheeks and brow were covered with open sores that wept grey pus. they grinned and licked their lips and hooted at her as she went limping past, her breasts heaving with the effort of the climb. some shouted obscene proposals, others insults. words are wind, she thought, words cannot hurt me. i am beautiful, the most beautiful woman in all westerns, jaime says so, jaime would never lie to me. even robert, robert never loved me, but he saw that i was beautiful, he wanted me. she did not feel beautiful, though. she felt old, used, filthy, ugly. there were stretch marks on her belly from the children she had borne, and her breasts were not as firm as they had been when she was younger. without a gown to hold them up, they sagged against her chest. / should not have done this. i was their queen, but now they've seen, they've seen, they've seen. i should never have let them see. gowned and crowned, she was a queen. naked, bloody, limping, she was only a woman, not so very different from their wives, more like their mothers than their pretty little maiden daughters. what have i done? there was something in her eyes, stinging, blurring her sight. she could not cry, she would not cry, the worms must never see her weep. cersei rubbed her eyes with the heels of her hands. a gust of cold wind made her shiver violently. and suddenly the hag was there, standing in the crowd with her pendulous teats and her warty greenish skin, leering with the rest, with malice shining from her crusty yellow eyes. queen you shall be, she hissed, until there comes another, younger and more beautiful, to cast you down and take all you hold most dear. and then there was no stopping the tears. they burned down the queen's cheeks like acid. cersei gave a sharp cry, covered her nipples with one arm, slid her other hand down to hide her slit, and began to run, shoving her way past the line of poor fellows, crouching as she scrambled crab-legged up the hill. partway up she stumbled and fell, rose, then fell again ten yards farther on. the next thing she knew she was crawling, scrambling uphill on all fours like a dog as the good folks of king's landing made way for her, laughing and jeering and applauding her. then all at once the crowd parted and seemed to dissolve, and there were the castle gates before her, and a line of spearmen in gilded half-helms and crimson cloaks. cersei heard the gruff, familiar sound of her uncle growling orders and glimpsed a flash of white to either side as ser boros blount and ser meryn trant strode toward her in their pale plate and snowy cloaks. my son, she cried. where is my son? where is tommen? not here. no son should have to bear witness to his mother's shame. ser kevan's voice was harsh. cover her up. then jocelyn was bending over her, wrapping her in a soft clean blanket of green wool to cover her nakedness. a shadow fell across them both, blotting out the sun. the queen felt cold steel slide beneath her, a pair of great armored arms lifting her off the ground, lifting her up into the air as easily as she had lifted joffrey when he was still a babe. a giant, thought cersei, dizzy, as he carried her with great strides toward the gatehouse. she had heard that giants could still be found in the godless wild beyond the wall. that is just a tale. am i dreaming? no. her savior was real. eight feet tall or maybe taller, with legs as thick around as trees, he had a chest worthy of a plow horse and shoulders that would not disgrace an ox. his armor was plate steel, enameled white and bright as a maiden's hopes, and worn over gilded mail. a greathelm hid his face. from its crest streamed seven silken plumes in the rainbow colors of the faith. a pair of golden seven-pointed stars clasped his billowing cloak at the shoulders. a white cloak. ser kevan had kept his part of the bargain. tommen, her precious little boy, had named her champion to the kingsguard. cersei never saw where qyburn came from, but suddenly he was there beside them, scrambling to keep up with her champion's long strides. your grace, he said, it is so good to have you back. may i have the honor of presenting our newest member of the kingsguard? this is ser robert strong. ser robert, cersei whispered, as they entered the gates. if it please your grace, ser robert has taken a holy vow of silence, qyburn said. he has sworn that he will not speak until all of his grace's enemies are dead and evil has been driven from the realm. yes, thought cersei lannister. oh, yes. 