she could hear the dead man coming up the steps. the slow, measured sound of footsteps went before him, echoing amongst the purple pillars of her hall. daenerys targaryen awaited him upon the ebon bench that she had made her throne. her eyes were soft with sleep, her silver-gold hair all tousled. your grace, said ser barristan selmy, the lord commander of her queensguard, there is no need for you to see this. he died for me. dany clutched her lion pelt to her chest. underneath, a sheer white linen tunic covered her to midthigh. she had been dreaming of a house with a red door when missandei woke her. there had been no time to dress. khaleesi, whispered irri, you must not touch the dead man. it is bad luck to touch the dead. unless you killed them yourself. jhiqui was bigger-boned than irri, with wide hips and heavy breasts. that is known. it is known, irri agreed. dothraki were wise where horses were concerned, but could be utter fools about much else. they are only girls, besides. her handmaids were of an age with her— women grown to look at them, with their black hair, copper skin, and almond-shaped eyes, but girls all the same. they had been given to her when she wed khal drogo. it was drogo who had given her the pelt she wore, the head and hide of a hrakkar, the white lion of the dothraki sea. it was too big for her and had a musty smell, but it made her feel as if her sun-and-stars was still near her. grey worm appeared atop the steps first, a torch in hand. his bronze cap was crested with three spikes. behind him followed four of his unsullied, bearing the dead man on their shoulders. their caps had only one spike each, and their faces showed so little they might have been cast of bronze as well. they laid the corpse down at her feet. ser barristan pulled back the bloodstained shroud. grey worm lowered the torch, so she might see. the dead man's face was smooth and hairless, though his cheeks had been slashed open ear to ear. he had been a tall man, blue-eyed and fair of face. some child oflys or old volantis, snatched off a ship by corsairs and sold into bondage in red astapor. though his eyes were open, it was his wounds that wept. there were more wounds than she could count. your grace, ser barristan said, there was a harpy drawn on the bricks in the alley where he was found ... ... drawn in blood. daenerys knew the way of it by now. the sons of the harpy did their butchery by night, and over each kill they left their mark. grey worm, why was this man alone? had he no partner? by her command, when the unsullied walked the streets of meereen by night they always walked in pairs. my queen, replied the captain, your servant stalwart shield had no duty last night. he had gone to a ... a certain place ... to drink, and have companionship. a certain place? what do you mean? a house of pleasure, your grace. a brothel. half of her freedmen were from yunkai, where the wise masters had been famed for training bedslaves. the way of the seven sighs. brothels had sprouted up like mushrooms all over meereen. it is all they know. they need to survive. food was more costly every day, whilst the price of flesh grew cheaper. in the poorer districts between the stepped pyramids of meereen's slaver nobility, there were brothels catering to every conceivable erotic taste, she knew. even so ... what could a eunuch hope to find in a brothel? even those who lack a man's parts may still have a man's heart, your grace, said grey worm. this one has been told that your servant stalwart shield sometimes gave coin to the women of the brothels to lie with him and hold him. the blood of the dragon does not weep. stalwart shield, she said, dry-eyed. that was his name? if it please your grace. it is a fine name. the good masters of astapor had not allowed their slave soldiers even names. some of her unsullied reclaimed their birth names after she had freed them; others chose new names for themselves. is it known how many attackers fell upon stalwart shield? this one does not know. many. six or more, said ser barristan. from the look of his wounds, they swarmed him from all sides. he was found with an empty scabbard. it may be that he wounded some of his attackers. dany said a silent prayer that somewhere one of the harpy's sons was dying even now, clutching at his belly and writhing in pain. why did they cut open his cheeks like that? gracious queen, said grey worm, his killers had forced the genitals of a goat down the throat of your servant stalwart shield. this one removed them before bringing him here. they could not feed him his own genitals. the astapori left him neither root nor stem. the sons grow bolder, dany observed. until now, they had limited their attacks to unarmed freedmen, cutting them down in the streets or breaking into their homes under the cover of darkness to murder them in their beds. this is the first of my soldiers they have slain. the first, ser barristan warned, but not the last. i am still at war, dany realized, only now i am fighting shadows. she had hoped for a respite from the killing, for some time to build and heal. shrugging off the lion pelt, she knelt beside the corpse and closed the dead man's eyes, ignoring jhiqui's gasp. stalwart shield shall not be forgotten. have him washed and dressed for battle and bury him with cap and shield and spears. it shall be as your grace commands, said grey worm. send men to the temple of the graces and ask if any man has come to the blue graces with a sword wound. and spread the word that we will pay good gold for the short sword of stalwart shield. inquire of the butchers and the herdsmen, and learn who has been gelding goats of late. perhaps some goatherd would confess. henceforth, no man of mine walks alone after dark. these ones shall obey. daenerys pushed her hair back. find these cowards for me. find them, so that i might teach the harpy's sons what it means to wake the dragon. grey worm saluted her. his unsullied closed the shroud once more, lifted the dead man onto their shoulders, and bore him from the hall. ser barristan selmy remained behind. his hair was white, and there were crow's-feet at the corners of his pale blue eyes. yet his back was still un-bent, and the years had not yet robbed him of his skill at arms. your grace, he said, i fear your eunuchs are ill suited for the tasks you set them. dany settled on her bench and wrapped her pelt about her shoulders once again. the unsullied are my finest warriors. soldiers, not warriors, if it please your grace. they were made for the battlefield, to stand shoulder to shoulder behind their shields with their spears thrust out before them. their training teaches them to obey, fearlessly, perfectly, without thought or hesitation ... not to unravel secrets or ask questions. would knights serve me any better? selmy was training knights for her, teaching the sons of slaves to fight with lance and longsword in the westerosi fashion ... but what good would lances do against cowards who killed from the shadows? not in this, the old man admitted. and your grace has no knights, save me. it will be years before the boys are ready. then who, if not unsullied? dothraki would be even worse. dothraki fought from horseback. mounted men were of more use in open fields and hills than in the narrow streets and alleys of the city. beyond meereen's walls of many-colored brick, dany's rule was tenuous at best. thousands of slaves still toiled on vast estates in the hills, growing wheat and olives, herding sheep and goats, and mining salt and copper. meereen's storehouses held ample supplies of grain, oil, olives, dried fruit, and salted meat, but the stores were dwindling. so dany had dispatched her tiny khalasar to subdue the hinterlands, under the command of her three bloodriders, whilst brown ben plumm took his second sons south to guard against yunkish incursions. the most crucial task of all she had entrusted to daario naharis, glib-tongued daario with his gold tooth and trident beard, smiling his wicked smile through purple whiskers. beyond the eastern hills was a range of rounded sandstone mountains, the khyzai pass, and lhazar. if daario could convince the lhazarene to reopen the overland trade routes, grains could be brought down the river or over the hills at need ... but the lamb men had no reason to love meereen. when the stormcrows return from lhazar, perhaps i can use them in the streets, she told ser barristan, but until then i have only the unsullied. dany rose. you must excuse me, ser. the petitioners will soon be at my gates. i must don my floppy ears and become their queen again. summon reznak and the shavepate, i'll see them when i'm dressed. as your grace commands. selmy bowed. the great pyramid shouldered eight hundred feet into the sky, from its huge square base to the lofty apex where the queen kept her private chambers, surrounded by greenery and fragrant pools. as a cool blue dawn broke over the city, dany walked out onto the terrace. to the west sunlight blazed off the golden domes of the temple of the graces, and etched deep shadows behind the stepped pyramids of the mighty. in some of those pyramids, the sons of the harpy are plotting new murders even now, and i am powerless to stop them. viserion sensed her disquiet. the white dragon lay coiled around a pear tree, his head resting on his tail. when dany passed his eyes came open, two pools of molten gold. h is horns were gold as well, and the scales that ran down his back from head to tail. you're lazy, she told him, scratching under his jaw. his scales were hot to the touch, like armor left too long in the sun. dragons are fire made flesh. she had read that in one of the books ser jorah had given her as a wedding gift. you should be hunting with your brothers. have you and drogon been fighting again? her dragons were growing wild of late. rhaegal had snapped at irri, and viserion had set reznak's tokar ablaze the last time the seneschal had called. / have left them too much to themselves, but where am i to find the time for them? viserion's tail lashed sideways, thumping the trunk of the tree so hard that a pear came tumbling down to land at dany's feet. his wings unfolded, and he half flew, half hopped onto the parapet. he grows, she thought as he launched himself into the sky. they are all three growing. soon they will be large enough to bear my weight. then she would fly as aegon the conqueror had flown, up and up, until meereen was so small that she could blot it out with her thumb. she watched viserion climb in widening circles until he was lost to sight beyond the muddy waters of theskahazadhan. only then did dany go back inside the pyramid, where irri and jhiqui were waiting to brush the tangles from her hair and garb her as befit the queen of meereen, in a ghiscari tokar. the garment was a clumsy thing, a long loose shapeless sheet that had to be wound around her hips and under an arm and over a shoulder, its dangling fringes carefully layered and displayed. wound too loose, it was like to fall off; wound too tight, it would tangle, trip, and bind. even wound properly, the tokar required its wearer to hold it in place with the left hand. walking in a tokar demanded small, mincing steps and exquisite balance, lest one tread upon those heavy trailing fringes. it was not a garment meant for any man who had to work. the tokar was a master's garment, a sign of wealth and power. dany had wanted to ban the tokar when she took meereen, but her advisors had convinced her otherwise. the mother of dragons must don the tokar or be forever hated, warned the green grace, galazza galare. in the wools of westerns or a gown of myrish lace, your radiance shall forever remain a stranger amongst us, a grotesque outlander, a barbarian conqueror. meereen's queen must be a lady of old ghis. brown ben plumm, the captain of the second sons, had put it more succinctly. man wants to be the king o' the rabbits, he best wear a pair o' floppy ears. the floppy ears she chose today were made of sheer white linen, with a fringe of golden tassels. with jhiqui's help, she wound the tokar about herself correctly on her third attempt. irri fetched her crown, wrought in the shape of the three-headed dragon of her house. its coils were gold, its wings silver, its three heads ivory, onyx, and jade. dany's neck and shoulders would be stiff and sore from the weight of it before the day was done. a crown should not sit easy on the head. one of her royal forebears had said that, once. some aegon, but which one? five aegons had ruled the seven kingdoms of westerns. there would have been a sixth, but the usurper's dogs had murdered her brother's son when he was still a babe at the breast. if he had lived, i might have married him. aegon would have been closer to my age than viserys. dany had only been conceived when aegon and his sister were murdered. their father, her brother rhaegar, perished even earlier, slain by the usurper on the trident. her brother viserys had died screaming in vaes dothrakwith a crown of molten gold upon his head. they will kill me too if i allow it. the knives that slew my stalwart shield were meant for me. she had not forgotten the slave children the great masters had nailed up along the road from yunkai. they had numbered one hundred sixty-three, a child every mile, nailed to mileposts with one arm outstretched to point her way. after meereen had fallen, dany had nailed up a like number of great masters. swarms of flies had attended their slow dying, and the stench had lingered long in the plaza. yet some days she feared that she had not gone far enough. these meereenese were a sly and stubborn people who resisted her at every turn. they had freed their slaves, yes ... only to hire them back as servants at wages so meagre that most could scarce afford to eat. those too old or young to be of use had been cast into the streets, along with the infirm and the crippled. and still the great masters gathered atop their lofty pyramids to complain of how the dragon queen had filled their noble city with hordes of unwashed beggars, thieves, and whores. to rule meereen i must win the meereenese, however much i may despise them. i am ready, she told irri. reznak and skahaz waited atop the marble steps. great queen, declared reznak mo reznak, you are so radiant today i fear to look on you. the seneschal wore a tokar of maroon silk with a golden fringe. a small, damp man, he smelled as if he had bathed in perfume and spoke a bastard form of high valyrian, much corrupted and flavored with a thick ghiscari growl. you are kind to say so, dany answered, in the same tongue. my queen, growled skahaz mo kandaq, of the shaven head. ghiscari hair was dense and wiry; it had long been the fashion for the men of the slaver cities to tease it into horns and spikes and wings. by shaving, skahaz had put old meereen behind him to accept the new, and his kin had done the same after his example. others followed, though whether from fear, fashion, or ambition, dany could not say; shavepates, they were called. skahaz was the shavepate ... and the vilest of traitors to the sons of the harpy and their ilk. we were told about the eunuch. his name was stalwart shield. more will die unless the murderers are punished. even with his shaven scalp, skahaz had an odious face— a beetled brow, small eyes with heavy bags beneath them, a big nose dark with blackheads, oily skin that looked more yellow than the usual amber of ghiscari. it was a blunt, brutal, angry face. she could only pray it was an honest one as well. how can i punish them when i do not know who they are? dany demanded of him. tell me that, bold skahaz. you have no lack of enemies, your grace. you can see their pyramids from your terrace. zhak, hazkar, ghazeen, merreq, loraq, all the old slaving families. pahl. pahl, most of all. a house of women now. bitter old women with a taste for blood. women do not forget. women do not forgive. no, dany thought, and the usurper's dogs will learn that, when i return to westerns. it was true that there was blood between her and the house of pahl. oznak zo pahl had been cut down by strong belwas in single combat. his father, commander of meereen's city watch, had died defending the gates when joso's cock smashed them into splinters. three uncles had been among the hundred sixty-three on the plaza. how much gold have we offered for information concerning the sons of the harpy? dany asked. one hundred honors, if it please your radiance. one thousand honors would please us more. make it so. your grace has not asked for my counsel, said skahaz shavepate, but i say that blood must pay for blood. take one man from each of the families i have named and kill him. the next time one of yours is slain, take two from each great house and kill them both. there will not be a third murder. reznak squealed in distress. noooo ... gentle queen, such savagery would bring down the ire of the gods. we will find the murderers, i promise you, and when we do they will prove to be baseborn filth, you shall see. the seneschal was as bald as skahaz, though in his case the gods were responsible. should any hair be so insolent as to appear, my barber stands with razor ready, he had assured her when she raised him up. there were times when dany wondered if that razor might not be better saved for reznak's throat. he was a useful man, but she liked him little and trusted him less. the undying of qarth had told her she would be thrice betrayed. mirri maz duur had been the first, ser jorah the second. would reznak be the third? the shavepate? daario? or will it be someone i would never suspect, ser barristan or grey worm or missandei? skahaz, she told the shavepate, i thank you for your counsel. reznak, see what one thousand honors may accomplish. clutching her tokar, daenerys swept past them down the broad marble stair. she took one step at a time, lest she trip over her fringe and go tumbling headfirst into court. missandei announced her. the little scribe had a sweet, strong voice. all kneel for daenerys stormborn, the unburnt, queen of meereen, queen of the andals and the rhoynar and the first men, khaleesi of great grass sea, breaker of shackles, and mother of dragons. the hall had filled. unsullied stood with their backs to the pillars, holding shields and spears, the spikes on their caps jutting upward like a row of knives. the meereenese had gathered beneath the eastern windows. her freedmen stood well apart from their former masters. until they stand together, meereen will know no peace. arise. dany settled onto her bench. the hall rose. that at least they do as one. reznak mo reznak had a list. custom demanded that the queen begin with the astapori envoy, a former slave who called himself lord ghael, though no one seemed to know what he was lord of. lord ghael had a mouth of brown and rotten teeth and the pointed yellow face of a weasel. he also had a gift. cleon the great sends these slippers as a token of his love for daenerys stormborn, the mother of dragons. irri slid the slippers onto dany's feet. they were gilded leather, decorated with green freshwater pearls. does the butcher king believe a pair of pretty slippers will win my hand? king cleon is most generous. you may thank him for his lovely gift. lovely, but made for a child. dany had small feet, yet the pointed slippers mashed her toes together. great cleon will be pleased to know they pleased you, said lord ghael. his magnificence bids me say that he stands ready to defend the mother of dragons from all her foes. if he proposes again that i wed king cleon, i'll throw a slipper at his head, dany thought, but for once the astapori envoy made no mention of a royal marriage. instead he said, the time has come for astapor and meereen to end the savage reign of the wise masters of yunkai, who are sworn foes to all those who live in freedom. great cleon bids me tell you that he and his new unsullied will soon march. his new unsullied are an obscene jape. king cleon would be wise to tend his own gardens and let the yunkai'i tend theirs. it was not that dany harbored any love for yunkai. she was coming to regret leaving the yellow city untaken after defeating its army in the field. the wise masters had returned to slaving as soon as she moved on, and were busy raising levies, hiring sellswords, and making alliances against her. cleon the self-styled great was no better, however. the butcher king had restored slavery to astapor, the only change being that the former slaves were now the masters and the former masters were now the slaves. i am only a young girl and know little of the ways of war, she told lord ghael, but we have heard that astapor is starving. let king cleon feed his people before he leads them out to battle. she made a gesture of dismissal. ghael withdrew. magnificence, prompted reznak mo reznak, will you hear the noble hizdahr zo loraq? again? dany nodded, and hizdahr strode forth; a tall man, very slender, with flawless amber skin. he bowed on the same spot where stalwart shield had lain in death not long before. / need this man, dany reminded herself. hizdahr was a wealthy merchant with many friends in meereen, and more across the seas. he had visited volantis, lys, and qarth, had kin in tolos and elyria, and was even said to wield some influence in new ghis, where the yunkai'i were trying to stir up enmity against dany and her rule. and he was rich. famously and fabulously rich ... and like to grow richer, if i grant his petition. when dany had closed the city's fighting pits, the value of pit shares had plummeted. hizdahr zo loraq had grabbed them up with both hands, and now owned most of the fighting pits in meereen. the nobleman had wings of wiry red-black hair sprouting from his temples. they made him look as if his head were about to take flight. his long face was made even longer by a beard bound with rings of gold. his purple tokar was fringed with amethysts and pearls. your radiance will know the reason i am here. why, it must be because you have no other purpose but to plague me. how many times have i refused you? five times, your magnificence. six now. i will not have the fighting pits reopened. if your majesty will hear my arguments ... i have. five times. have you brought new arguments? old arguments, hizdahr admitted, new words. lovely words, and courteous, more apt to move a queen. it is your cause i find wanting, not your courtesies. i have heard your arguments so often i could plead your case myself. shall i? dany leaned forward. the fighting pits have been a part of meereen since the city was founded. the combats are profoundly religious in nature, a blood sacrifice to the gods of ghis. the mortal art of ghis is not mere butchery but a display of courage, skill, and strength most pleasing to your gods. victorious fighters are pampered and acclaimed, and the slain are honored and remembered. by reopening the pits i would show the people of meereen that i respect their ways and customs. the pits are far-famed across the world. they draw trade to meereen, and fill the city's coffers with coin from the ends of the earth. all men share a taste for blood, a taste the pits help slake. in that way they make meereen more tranquil. for criminals condemned to die upon the sands, the pits represent a judgment by battle, a last chance for a man to prove his innocence. she leaned back again, with a toss of her head. there. how have i done? your radiance has stated the case much better than i could have hoped to do myself. i see that you are eloquent as well as beautiful. i am quite persuaded. she had to laugh. ah, but i am not. your magnificence/' whispered reznak mo reznak in her ear, it is customary for the city to claim one-tenth of all the profits from the fighting pits, after expenses, as a tax. that coin might be put to many noble uses. it might ... though if we were to reopen the pits, we should take our tenth before expenses. i am only a young girl and know little of such matters, but i dwelt with xaro xhoan daxos long enough to learn that much. hizdahr, if you could marshal armies as you marshal arguments, you could conquer the world ... but my answer is still no. for the sixth time. the queen has spoken. he bowed again, as deeply as before. his pearls and amethysts clattered softly against the marble floor. a very limber man was hizdahr zo loraq. he might be handsome, but for that silly hair. reznak and the green grace had been urging dany to take a meereenese noble for her husband, to reconcile the city to her rule. hizdahr zo loraq might be worth a careful look. sooner him than skahaz. the shavepate had offered to set aside his wife for her, but the notion made her shudder. hizdahr at least knew how to smile. magnificence, said reznak, consulting his list, the noble grazdan zo galare would address you. will you hear him? it would be my pleasure, said dany, admiring the glimmer of the gold and the sheen of the green pearls on cleon's slippers while doing her best to ignore the pinching in her toes. grazdan, she had been forewarned, was a cousin of the green grace, whose support she had found invaluable. the priestess was a voice for peace, acceptance, and obedience to lawful authority. / can give her cousin a respectful hearing, whatever he desires. what he desired turned out to be gold. dany had refused to compensate any of the great masters for the value of their slaves, but the meereenese kept devising other ways to squeeze coin from her. the noble grazdan had once owned a slave woman who was a very fine weaver, it seemed; the fruits of her loom were greatly valued, not only in meereen, but in new ghis and astapor and qarth. when this woman had grown old, grazdan had purchased half a dozen young girls and commanded the crone to instruct them in the secrets of her craft. the old woman was dead now. the young ones, freed, had opened a shop by the harbor wall to sell their weavings. grazdan zo galare asked that he be granted a portion of their earnings. they owe their skill to me, he insisted. i plucked them from the auction bloc and gave them to the loom. dany listened quietly, her face still. when he was done, she said, what was the name of the old weaver? the slave? grazdan shifted his weight, frowning. she was ... elza, it might have been. or ella. it was six years ago she died. i have owned so many slaves, your grace. let us say elza. here is our ruling. from the girls, you shall have nothing. it was elza who taught them weaving, not you. from you, the girls shall have a new loom, the finest coin can buy. that is for forgetting the name of the old woman. reznak would have summoned another tokar next, but dany insisted that he call upon a freedman. thereafter she alternated between the former masters and the former slaves. many and more of the matters brought before her involved redress. meereen had been sacked savagely after its fall. the stepped pyramids of the mighty had been spared the worst of the ravages, but the humbler parts of the city had been given over to an orgy of looting and killing as the city's slaves rose up and the starving hordes who had followed her from yunkai and astapor poured through the broken gates. her unsullied had finally restored order, but the sack left a plague of problems in its wake. and so they came to see the queen. a rich woman came, whose husband and sons had died defending the city walls. during the sack she had fled to her brother in fear. when she returned, she found her house had been turned into a brothel. the whores had bedecked themselves in her jewels and clothes. she wanted her house back, and her jewels. they can keep the clothes, she allowed. dany granted her the jewels but ruled the house was lost when she abandoned it. a former slave came, to accuse a certain noble of the zhak. the man had recently taken to wife a freedwoman who had been the noble's bed-warmer before the city fell. the noble had taken her maidenhood, used her for his pleasure, and gotten her with child. her new husband wanted the noble gelded for the crime of rape, and he wanted a purse of gold as well, to pay him for raising the noble's bastard as his own. dany granted him the gold, but not the gelding. when he lay with her, your wife was his property, to do with as he would. by law, there was no rape. her decision did not please him, she could see, but if she gelded every man who ever forced a bedslave, she would soon rule a city of eunuchs. a boy came, younger than dany, slight and scarred, dressed up in a frayed grey tokar trailing silver fringe. his voice broke when he told of how two of his father's household slaves had risen up the night the gate broke. one had slain his father, the other his elder brother. both had raped his mother before killing her as well. the boy had escaped with no more than the scar upon his face, but one of the murderers was still living in his father's house, and the other had joined the queen's soldiers as one of the mother's men. he wanted them both hanged. / am queen over a city built on dust and death. dany had no choice but to deny him. she had declared a blanket pardon for all crimes committed during the sack. nor would she punish slaves for rising up against their masters. when she told him, the boy rushed at her, but his feet tangled in his tokar and he went sprawling headlong on the purple marble. strong belwas was on him at once. the huge brown eunuch yanked him up one-handed and shook him like a mastiff with a rat. enough, belwas, dany called. release him. to the boy she said, treasure that tokar, for it saved your life. you are only a boy, so we will forget what happened here. you should do the same. but as he left the boy looked back over his shoulder, and when she saw his eyes dany thought, the harpy has another son. by midday daenerys was feeling the weight of the crown upon her head, and the hardness of the bench beneath her. with so many still waiting on her pleasure, she did not stop to eat. instead she dispatched jhiqui to the kitchens for a platter of flatbread, olives, figs, and cheese. she nibbled whilst she listened, and sipped from a cup of watered wine. the figs were fine, the olives even finer, but the wine left a tart metallic aftertaste in her mouth. the small pale yellow grapes native to these regions produced a notably inferior vintage. we shall have no trade in wine. besides, the great masters had burned the best arbors along with the olive trees. in the afternoon a sculptor came, proposing to replace the head of the great bronze harpy in the plaza of purification with one cast in dany's image. she denied him with as much courtesy as she could muster. a pike of unprecedented size had been caught in the skahazadhan, and the fisherman wished to give it to the queen. she admired the fish extravagantly, rewarded the fisherman with a purse of silver, and sent the pike to her kitchens. a coppersmith had fashioned her a suit of burnished rings to wear to war. she accepted it with fulsome thanks; it was lovely to behold, and all that burnished copper would flash prettily in the sun, though if actual battle threatened, she would sooner be clad in steel. even a young girl who knew nothing of the ways of war knew that. the slippers the butcher king had sent her had grown too uncomfortable. dany kicked them off and sat with one foot tucked beneath her and the other swinging back and forth. it was not a very regal pose, but she was tired of being regal. the crown had given her a headache, and her buttocks had gone to sleep. ser barristan, she called, i know what quality a king needs most. courage, your grace? cheeks like iron, she teased. all i do is sit. your grace takes too much on herself. you should allow your councillors to shoulder more of your burdens. i have too many councillors and too few cushions. dany turned to reznak. how many more?  three-and-twenty, if it please your magnificence. with as many claims. the seneschal consulted some papers. one calf and three goats. the rest will be sheep or lambs, no doubt.  three-and-twenty. dany sighed. my dragons have developed a prodigious taste for mutton since we began to pay the shepherds for their kills. have these claims been proven? some men have brought burnt bones. men make fires. men cook mutton. burnt bones prove nothing. brown ben says there are red wolves in the hills outside the city, and jack-als and wild dogs. must we pay good silver for every lamb that goes astray between yunkai and the skahazadhan? no, magnificence. reznak bowed. shall i send these rascals away, or will you want them scourged? daenerys shifted on the bench. no man should ever fear to come to me. some claims were false, she did not doubt, but more were genuine. her dragons had grown too large to be content with rats and cats and dogs. the more they eat, the larger they will grow, ser barristan had warned her, and the larger they grow, the more they'll eat. drogon especially ranged far afield and could easily devour a sheep a day. pay them for the value of their animals, she told reznak, but henceforth claimants must present themselves at the temple of the graces and swear a holy oath before the gods of ghis. it shall be done. reznak turned to the petitioners. her magnificence the queen has consented to compensate each of you for the animals you have lost, he told them in the ghiscari tongue. present yourselves to my factors on the morrow, and you shall be paid in coin or kind, as you prefer. the pronouncement was received in sullen silence. you would think they might be happier, dany thought. they have what they came for. is there no way to please these people? one man lingered behind as the rest were filing out— a squat man with a windburnt face, shabbily dressed. his hair was a cap of coarse red-black wire cropped about his ears, and in one hand he held a sad cloth sack. he stood with his head down, gazing at the marble floor as if he had quite forgotten where he was. and what does this one want? dany wondered. all kneel for daenerys stormborn, the unburnt, queen of meereen, queen of the andals and the rhoynar and the first men, khaleesi of great grass sea, breaker of shackles, and mother of dragons, cried missandei in her high, sweet voice. as dany stood, her tokar began to slip. she caught it and tugged it back in place. you with the sack, she called, did you wish to speak with us? you may approach. when he raised his head, his eyes were red and raw as open sores. dany glimpsed ser barristan sliding closer, a white shadow at her side. the man approached in a stumbling shuffle, one step and then another, clutching his sack. is he drunk, or ill? she wondered. there was dirt beneath his cracked yellow fingernails. what is it? dany asked. do you have some grievance to lay before us, some petition? what would you have of us? his tongue flicked nervously over chapped, cracked lips. i ... i brought ... bones? she said, impatiently. burnt bones? he lifted the sack, and spilled its contents on the marble. bones they were, broken bones and blackened. the longer ones had been cracked open for their marrow. it were the black one, the man said, in a ghiscari growl, the winged shadow. he come down from the sky and ... and ... no. dany shivered. no, no, oh no. are you deaf, fool? reznak mo reznak demanded of the man. did you not hear my pronouncement? see my factors on the morrow, and you shall be paid for your sheep. reznak, ser barristan said quietly, hold your tongue and open your eyes. those are no sheep bones. no, dany thought, those are the bones of a child. what is it? she cried, as irri shook her gently by the shoulder. it was the black of night outside. something is wrong, she knew at once. is it daario? what's happened? in her dream they had been man and wife, simple folk who lived a simple life in a tall stone house with a red door. in her dream he had been kissing her all over— her mouth, her neck, her breasts. no, khaleesi, irri murmured, it is your eunuch grey worm and the bald men. will you see them? yes. her hair was disheveled and her bedclothes all atangle, dany realized. help me dress. i'll have a cup of wine as well. to clear my head. to drown my dream. she could hear the soft sounds of sobs. who is that weeping? your slave missandei. jhiqui had a taper in her hand. my servant. i have no slaves. dany did not understand. why does she weep? for him who was her brother, irri told her. the rest she had from skahaz, reznak, and grey worm, when they were ushered into her presence. dany knew their tidings were bad before a word was spoken. one glance at the shavepate's ugly face sufficed to tell her that. the sons of the harpy? skahaz nodded. his mouth was grim. how many dead? reznak wrung his hands. n-nine, magnificence. foul work it was, and wicked. a dreadful night, dreadful. nine. the word was a dagger in her heart. every night the shadow war was waged anew beneath the stepped pyramids of meereen. every morn the sun rose upon fresh corpses, with harpies drawn in blood on the bricks beside them. any freedman who became too prosperous or too outspoken was marked for death. nine in one night, though ... that frightened her. tell me. grey worm answered. your servants were set upon as they walked the bricks of meereen to keep your grace's peace. all were well armed, with spears and shields and short swords. two by two they walked, and two by two they died. your servants black fist and cetherys were slain by cross-bow bolts in mazdhan's maze. your servants mossador and duran were crushed by falling stones beneath the river wall. your servants eladon goldenhair and loyal spear were poisoned at a wineshop where they were accustomed to stop each night upon their rounds. mossador. dany made a fist. missandei and her brothers had been taken from their home on naath by raiders from the basilisk isles and sold into slavery in astapor. young as she was, missandei had shown such a gift for tongues that the good masters had made a scribe of her. mossador and marselen had not been so fortunate. they had been gelded and made into unsullied. have any of the murderers been captured? your servants have arrested the owner of the wineshop and his daughters. they plead their ignorance and beg for mercy. they all plead ignorance and beg for mercy. give them to the shavepate. skahaz, keep each apart from the others and put them to the question. it will be done, your worship. would you have me question them sweetly, or sharply? sweetly, to begin. hear what tales they tell and what names they give you. it may be they had no part in this. she hesitated. nine, the noble reznak said. who else? three freedmen, murdered in their homes, the shavepate said. a moneylender, a cobbler, and the harpist rylona rhee. they cut her fingers off before they killed her. the queen flinched. rylona rhee had played the harp as sweetly as the maiden. when she had been a slave in yunkai, she had played for every highborn family in the city. in meereen she had become a leader amongst the yunkish freedmen, their voice in dany's councils. we have no captives but this wineseller? none, this one grieves to confess. we beg your pardon. mercy, thought dany. they will have the dragon's mercy. skahaz, i have changed my mind. question the man sharply. i could. or i could question the daughters sharply whilst the father looks on. that will wring some names from him. do as you think best, but bring me names. her fury was a fire in her belly. i will have no more unsullied slaughtered. grey worm, pull your men back to their barracks. henceforth let them guard my walls and gates and person. from this day, it shall be for meereenese to keep the peace in meereen. skahaz, make me a new watch, made up in equal parts of shavepates and freedmen. as you command. how many men? as many as you require. reznak mo reznak gasped. magnificence, where is the coin to come from to pay wages for so many men? from the pyramids. call it a blood tax. i will have a hundred pieces of gold from every pyramid for each freedman that the harpy's sons have slain. that brought a smile to the shavepate's face. it will be done, he said, but your radiance should know that the great masters of zhakand merreq are making preparations to quit their pyramids and leave the city. daenerys was sick unto death of zhak and merreq; she was sick of all the mereenese, great and small alike. let them go, but see that they take no more than the clothes upon their backs. make certain that all their gold remains here with us. their stores of food as well. magnificence, murmured reznak mo reznak, we cannot know that these great nobles mean to join your enemies. more like they are simply making for their estates in the hills. they will not mind us keeping their gold safe, then. there is nothing to buy in the hills. they are afraid for their children, reznak said. yes, daenerys thought, and so am i. we must keep them safe as well. i will have two children from each of them. from the other pyramids as well. a boy and a girl. hostages, said skahaz, happily. pages and cupbearers. if the great masters make objection, explain to them that in westerns it is a great honor for a child to be chosen to serve at court. she left the rest unspoken. go and do as i've commanded. i have my dead to mourn. when she returned to her rooms atop the pyramid, she found missandei crying softly on her pallet, trying as best she could to muffle the sound of her sobs. come sleep with me, she told the little scribe. dawn will not come for hours yet. your grace is kind to this one. missandei slipped under the sheets. he was a good brother. dany wrapped her arms about the girl. tell me of him. he taught me how to climb a tree when we were little. he could catch fish with his hands. once i found him sleeping in our garden with a hundred butterflies crawling over him. he looked so beautiful that morning, this one ... i mean, i loved him. as he loved you. dany stroked the girl's hair. say the word, my sweet, and i will send you from this awful place. i will find a ship somehow and send you home. to naath. i would sooner stay with you. on naath i'd be afraid. what if the slavers came again? i feel safe when i'm with you. safe. the word made dany's eyes fill up with tears. i want to keep you safe. missandei was only a child. with her, she felt as if she could be a child too. no one ever kept me safe when i was little. well, ser willem did, but then he died, and viserys ... i want to protect you but ... it is so hard. to be strong. i don't always know what i should do. i must know, though. i am all they have. i am the queen ... the... the... ... mother, whispered missandei. mother to dragons. dany shivered. no. mother to us all. missandei hugged her tighter. your grace should sleep. dawn will be here soon, and court. we'll both sleep, and dream of sweeter days. close your eyes. when she did, dany kissed her eyelids and made her giggle. kisses came easier than sleep, however. dany shut her eyes and tried to think of home, of dragonstone and king's landing and all the other places that viserys had told her of, in a kinder land than this ... but her thoughts kept turning back to slaver's bay, like ships caught in some bitter wind. when missandei was sound asleep, dany slipped from her arms and stepped out into the predawn air to lean upon the cool brick parapet and gaze out across the city. a thousand roofs stretched out below her, painted in shades of ivory and silver by the moon. somewhere beneath those roofs, the sons of the harpy were gathered, plotting ways to kill her and all those who loved her and put her children back in chains. somewhere down there a hungry child was crying for milk. somewhere an old woman lay dying. somewhere a man and a maid embraced, and fumbled at each other's clothes with eager hands. but up here there was only the sheen of moonlight on pyramids and pits, with no hint what lay beneath. up here there was only her, alone. she was the blood of the dragon. she could kill the sons of the harpy, and the sons of the sons, and the sons of the sons of the sons. but a dragon could not feed a hungry child nor help a dying woman's pain. and who would ever dare to love a dragon? she found herself thinking of daario naharis once again, daario with his gold tooth and trident beard, his strong hands resting on the hilts of his matched arakh and stiletto, hilts wrought of gold in the shape of naked women. the day he took his leave of her, as she was bidding him farewell, he had brushed the balls of his thumbs lightly across them, back and forth. / am jealous of a sword hilt, she had realized, of women made of gold. sending him to the lamb men had been wise. she was a queen, and daario naharis was not the stuff of kings. it has been so long, she had said to ser barristan, just yesterday. what if daario has betrayed me and gone over to my enemies? three treasons will you know. what if he met another woman, some princess of the lhazarene? the old knight neither liked nor trusted daario, she knew. even so, he had answered gallantly. there is no woman more lovely than your grace. only a blind man could believe otherwise, and daario naharis was not blind. no, she thought. his eyes are a deep blue, almost purple, and his gold tooth gleams when he smiles for me. ser barristan was sure he would return, though. dany could only pray that he was right. a bath will help soothe me. she padded barefoot through the grass to her terrace pool. the water felt cool on her skin, raising goosebumps. little fish nibbled at her arms and legs. she closed her eyes and floated. a soft rustle made her open them again. she sat up with a soft splash. missandei? she called. irri? jhiqui? they sleep, came the answer. a woman stood under the persimmon tree, clad in a hooded robe that brushed the grass. beneath the hood, her face seemed hard and shiny. she is wearing a mask, dany knew, a wooden mask finished in dark red lacguer. quaithe? am i dreaming? she pinched her ear and winced at the pain. i dreamt of you on balerion, when first we came to astapor. you did not dream. then or now. what are you doing here? how did you get past my guards? i came another way. your guards never saw me. if i call out, they will kill you. they will swear to you that i am not here. are you here? no. hear me, daenerys targaryen. the glass candles are burning. soon comes the pale mare, and after her the others. kraken and dark flame, lion and griffin, the sun's son and the mummer's dragon. trust none of them. remember the undying. beware the perfumed seneschal. reznak? why should i fear him? dany rose from the pool. water trickled down her legs, and gooseflesh covered her arms in the cool night air. if you have some warning for me, speak plainly. what do you want of me, quaithe? moonlight shone in the woman's eyes. to show you the way. i remember the way. i go north to go south, east to go west, back to go forward. and to touch the light i have to pass beneath the shadow. she squeezed the water from her silvery hair. i am half-sick of riddling. in qarth i was a beggar, but here i am a queen. i command you— daenerys. remember the undying. remember who you are. the blood of the dragon. but my dragons are roaring in the darkness. i remember the undying. child of three, they called me. three mounts they promised me, three fires, and three treasons. one for blood and one for gold and one for ... your grace? missandei stood in the door of the queen's bedchamber, a lantern in her hand. who are you talking to? dany glanced back toward the persimmon tree. there was no woman there. no hooded robe, no lacquer mask, no quaithe. a shadow. a memory. no one. she was the blood of the dragon, but ser barristan had warned her that in that blood there was a taint. could i be going mad? they had called her father mad, once. i was praying, she told the naathi girl. it will be light soon. i had best eat something, before court. i will bring you food to break your fast. alone again, dany went all the way around the pyramid in hopes of finding quaithe, past the burned trees and scorched earth where her men had tried to capture drogon. but the only sound was the wind in the fruit trees, and the only creatures in the gardens were a few pale moths. missandei returned with a melon and a bowl of hard-cooked eggs, but dany found she had no appetite. as the sky lightened and the stars faded one by one, irri and jhiqui helped her don a tokar of violet silk fringed in gold. when reznak and skahaz appeared, she found herself looking at them askance, mindful of the three treasons. beware the perfumed seneschal. she sniffed suspiciously at reznak mo reznak. i could command the shavepate to arrest him and put him to the guestion. would that forestall the prophecy? or would some other betrayer take his place? prophecies are treacherous, she reminded herself, and reznak may be no more than he appears. in the purple hall, dany found her ebon bench piled high about with satin pillows. the sight brought a wan smile to her lips. ser barristan's work, she knew. the old knight was a good man, but sometimes very literal. it was only a jape, ser, she thought, but she sat on one of the pillows just the same. her sleepless night soon made itself felt. before long she was fighting off a yawn as reznak prattled about the craftsmen's guilds. the stonemasons were wroth with her, it seemed. the bricklayers as well. certain former slaves were carving stone and laying bricks, stealing work from guild journeymen and masters alike. the freed men work too cheaply, magnificence, reznaksaid. some call themselves journeymen, or even masters, titles that belong by rights only to the craftsmen of the guilds. the masons and the bricklayers do respectfully petition your worship to uphold their ancient rights and customs. the freedmen work cheaply because they are hungry, dany pointed out. if i forbid them to carve stone or lay bricks, the chandlers, the weavers, and the goldsmiths will soon be at my gates asking that they be excluded from those trades as well. she considered a moment. let it be written that henceforth only guild members shall be permitted to name themselves journeymen or masters ... provided the guilds open their rolls to any freedman who can demonstrate the requisite skills. so shall it be proclaimed, said reznak. will it please your worship to hear the noble hizdahr zo loraq? will he never admit defeat? let him step forth. hizdahr was not in a tokar today. instead he wore a simple robe of grey and blue. he was shorn as well. he has shaved off his beard and cut his hair, she realized. the man had not gone shavepate, not quite, but at least those absurd wings of his were gone. your barber has served you well, hizdahr. i hope you have come to show me his work and not to plague me further about the fighting pits. he made a deep obeisance. your grace, i fear i must. dany grimaced. even her own people would give no rest about the matter. reznak mo reznak stressed the coin to be made through taxes. the green grace said that reopening the pits would please the gods. the shavepate felt it would win her support against the sons of the harpy. let them fight, grunted strong belwas, who had once been a champion in the pits. ser barristan suggested a tourney instead; his orphans could ride at rings and fight a melee with blunted weapons, he said, a suggestion dany knew was as hopeless as it was well-intentioned. it was blood the meereenese yearned to see, not skill. elsewise the fighting slaves would have worn armor. only the little scribe missandei seemed to share the queen's misgivings. i have refused you six times, dany reminded hizdahr. your radiance has seven gods, so perhaps she will look upon my seventh plea with favor. today i do not come alone. will you hear my friends? there are seven of them as well. he brought them forth one by one. here is khrazz. here barsena blackhair, ever valiant. herecamarron of the count and goghor the giant. this is the spotted cat, this fearless ithoke. last, belaquo bonebreaker. they have come to add their voices to mine own, and ask your grace to let our fighting pits reopen. dany knew his seven, by name if not by sight. all had been amongst the most famed of meereen's fighting slaves ... and it had been the fighting slaves, freed from their shackles by her sewer rats, who led the uprising that won the city for her. she owed them a blood debt. i will hear you, she allowed. one by one, each of them asked her to let the fighting pits reopen. why? she demanded, when ithoke had finished. you are no longer slaves, doomed to die at a master's whim. i freed you. why should you wish to end your lives upon the scarlet sands? i train since three, said goghor the giant. i kill since six. mother of dragons says i am free. why not free to fight? if it is fighting you want, fight for me. swear your sword to the mother's men or the free brothers or the stalwart shields. teach my other freedmen how to fight. goghor shook his head. before, i fight for master. you say, fight for you. i say, fight for me. the huge man thumped his chest with a fist as big as a ham. for gold. for glory. goghor speaks for us all. the spotted cat wore a leopard skin across one shoulder. the last time i was sold, the price was three hundred thousand honors. when i was a slave, i slept on furs and ate red meat off the bone. now that i'm free, i sleep on straw and eat salt fish, when i can get it. hizdahr swears that the winners shall share half of all the coin collected at the gates, said khrazz. half, he swears it, and hizdahr is an honorable man. no, a cunning man. daenerys felt trapped. and the losers? what shall they receive? their names shall be graven on the gates of fate amongst the other valiant fallen, declared barsena. for eight years she had slain every other woman sent against her, it was said. all men must die, and women too ... but not all will be remembered. dany had no answer for that. // this is truly what my people wish, do i have the right to deny it to them? it was their city before it was mine, and it is their own lives they wish to sguander. i will consider all you've said. thank you for your counsel. she rose. we will resume on the morrow. all kneel for daenerys stormborn, the unburnt, queen of meereen, queen of the andals and the rhoynar and the first men, khaleesi of great grass sea, breaker of shackles, and mother of dragons, missandei called. ser barristan escorted her back up to her chambers. tell me a tale, ser, dany said as they climbed. some tale of valor with a happy ending. she felt in need of happy endings. tell me how you escaped from the usurper. your grace. there is no valor in running for your life. dany seated herself on a cushion, crossed her legs, and gazed up at him. please. it was the young usurper who dismissed you from the kingsguard ... joffrey, aye. they gave my age for a reason, though the truth was elsewise. the boy wanted a white cloak for his dog sandor clegane and his mother wanted the kingslayer to be her lord commander. when they told me, i ... i took off my cloak as they commanded, threw my sword at joffrey's feet, and spoke unwisely. what did you say? the truth ... but truth was never welcome at that court. i walked from the throne room with my head high, though i did not know where i was going. i had no home but white sword tower. my cousins would find a place for me at harvest hall, i knew, but i had no wish to bring joffrey's displeasure down upon them. i was gathering my things when it came to me that i had brought this on myself by taking robert's pardon. he was a good knight but a bad king, for he had no right to the throne he sat. that was when i knew that to redeem myself i must find the true king, and serve him loyally with all the strength that still remained me. my brother viserys. such was my intent. when i reached the stables the gold cloaks tried to seize me. joffrey had offered me a tower to die in, but i had spurned his gift, so now he meant to offer me a dungeon. the commander of the city watch himself confronted me, emboldened by my empty scabbard, but he had only three men with him and i still had my knife. i slashed one man's face open when he laid his hands upon me, and rode through the others. as i spurred for the gates i heard janos slynt shouting for them to go after me. once outside the red keep, the streets were congested, else i might have gotten away clean. instead they caught me at the river gate. the gold cloaks who had pursued me from the castle shouted for those at the gate to stop me, so they crossed their spears to bar my way. and you without your sword? how did you get past them? a true knight is worth ten guardsmen. the men at the gate were taken by surprise. i rode one down, wrenched away his spear, and drove it through the throat of my closest pursuer. the other broke off once i was through the gate, so i spurred my horse to a gallop and rode hellbent along the river until the city was lost to sight behind me. that night i traded my horse for a handful of pennies and some rags, and the next morning i joined the stream of smallfolk making their way to king's landing. i'd gone out the mud gate, so i returned through the gate of the gods, with dirt on my face, stubble on my cheeks, and no weapon but a wooden staff. in roughspun clothes and mud-caked boots, i was just one more old man fleeing the war. the gold cloaks took a stag from me and waved me through. king's landing was crowded with smallfolk who'd come seeking refuge from the fighting. i lost myself amongst them. i had a little silver, but i needed that to pay my passage across the narrow sea, so i slept in septs and alleys and took my meals in pot shops. i let my beard grow out and cloaked myself in age. the day lord stark lost his head, i was there, watching. afterward i went into the great sept and thanked the seven gods that joffrey had stripped me of my cloak. stark was a traitor who met a traitor's end. your grace, said selmy, eddard stark played a part in your father's fall, but he bore you no ill will. when the eunuch varys told us that you were with child, robert wanted you killed, but lord stark spoke against it. rather than countenance the murder of children, he told robert to find himself another hand. have you forgotten princess rhaenys and prince aegon? never. that was lannister work, your grace. lannister or stark, what difference? viserys used to call them the usurper's dogs. if a child is set upon by a pack of hounds, does it matter which one tears out his throat? all the dogs are just as guilty. the guilt ... the word caught in her throat. hazzea, she thought, and suddenly she heard herself say, i have to seethe pit, in a voice as small as a child's whisper. take me down, ser, if you would. a flicker of disapproval crossed the old man's face, but it was not his way to question his queen. as you command. the servants' steps were the quickest way down— not grand, but steep and straight and narrow, hidden in the walls. ser barristan brought a lantern, lest she fall. bricks of twenty different colors pressed close around them, fading to grey and black beyond the lantern light. thrice they passed unsullied guards, standing as if they had been carved from stone. the only sound was the soft scruff of their feet upon the steps. at ground level the great pyramid of meereen was a hushed place, full of dust and shadows. its outer walls were thirty feet thick. within them, sounds echoed off arches of many-colored bricks, and amongst the stables, stalls, and storerooms. they passed beneath three massive arches, down a torchlit ramp into the vaults beneath the pyramid, past cisterns, dungeons, and torture chambers where slaves had been scourged and skinned and burned with red-hot irons. finally they came to a pair of huge iron doors with rusted hinges, guarded by unsullied. at her command, one produced an iron key. the door opened, hinges shrieking. daenerys targaryen stepped into the hot heart of darkness and stopped at the lip of a deep pit. forty feet below, her dragons raised their heads. four eyes burned through the shadows— two of molten gold and two of bronze. ser barristan took her by the arm. no closer. you think they would harm me? i do not know, your grace, but i would sooner not risk your person to learn the answer. when rhaegal roared, a gout of yellow flame turned darkness into day for half a heartbeat. the fire licked along the walls, and dany felt the heat upon her face, like the blast from an oven. across the pit, viserion's wings unfolded, stirring the stale air. he tried to fly to her, but the chains snapped taut as he rose and slammed him down onto his belly. links as big as a man's fist bound his feet to the floor. the iron collar about his neck was fastened to the wall behind him. rhaegal wore matching chains. in the light of selmy's lantern, his scales gleamed like jade. smoke rose from between his teeth. bones were scattered on the floor at his feet, cracked and scorched and splintered. the air was uncomfortably hot and smelled of sulfur and charred meat. they are larger. dany's voice echoed off the scorched stone walls. a drop of sweat trickled down her brow and fell onto her breast. is it true that dragons never stop growing? if they have food enough, and space to grow. chained up in here, though ... the great masters had used the pit as a prison. it was large enough to hold five hundred men ... and more than ample for two dragons. for how long, though? what will happen when they grow too large for the pit? will they turn on one another with flame and claw? will they grow wan and weak, with withered flanks and shrunken wings? will their fires go out before the end? what sort of mother lets her children rot in darkness? /// look back, i am doomed, dany told herself ... but how could she not look back? / should have seen it coming. was i so blind, or did i close my eyes willfully, so i would not have to see the price of power? viserys had told her all the tales when she was little. he loved to talk of dragons. she knew how harrenhal had fallen. she knew about the field of fire and the dance of the dragons. one of her forebears, the third aegon, had seen his own mother devoured by his uncle's dragon. and there were songs beyond count of villages and kingdoms that lived in dread of dragons till some brave dragonslayer rescued them. at astapor the slaver's eyes had melted. on the road to yunkai, when daario tossed the heads of sailor the bald and prendahl na ghezn at her feet, her children made a feast of them. dragons had no fear of men. and a dragon large enough to gorge on sheep could take a child just as easily. her name had been hazzea. she was four years old. unless her father lied. he might have lied. no one had seen the dragon but him. his proof was burned bones, but burned bones proved nothing. he might have killed the little girl himself, and burned her afterward. he would not have been the first father to dispose of an unwanted girl child, the shavepate claimed. the sons of the harpy might have done it, and made it look like dragon's work to make the city hate me. dany wanted to believe that ... but if that was so, why had hazzea's father waited until the audience hall was almost empty to come forward? if his purpose had been to inflame the meereenese against her, he would have told his tale when the hall was full of ears to hear. the shavepate had urged her to put the man to death. at least rip out his tongue. this man's lie could destroy us all, magnificence. instead dany chose to pay the blood price. no one could tell her the worth of a daughter, so she set it at one hundred times the worth of a lamb. i would give hazzea back to you if i could, she told the father, but some things are beyond the power of even a queen. her bones shall be laid to rest in the temple of the graces, and a hundred candles shall burn day and night in her memory. come back to me each year upon her nameday, and your other children shall not want ... but this tale must never pass your lips again. men will ask, the grieving father had said. they will ask me where hazzea is and how she died. she died of a snakebite, reznak mo reznak insisted. a ravening wolf carried her off. a sudden sickness took her. tell them what you will, but never speak of dragons. viserion's claws scrabbled against the stones, and the huge chains rattled as he tried to make his way to her again. when he could not, he gave a roar, twisted his head back as far as he was able, and spat golden flame at the wall behind him. how soon till his fire burns hot enough to crack stone and melt iron ? once, not long ago, he had ridden on her shoulder, his tail coiled round her arm. once she had fed him morsels of charred meat from her own hand. he had been the first chained up. daenerys had led him to the pit herself and shut him up inside with several oxen. once he had gorged himself he grew drowsy. they had chained him whilst he slept. rhaegal had been harder. perhaps he could hear his brother raging in the pit, despite the walls of brick and stone between them. in the end, they had to cover him with a net of heavy iron chain as he basked on her terrace, and he fought so fiercely that it had taken three days to carry him down the servants' steps, twisting and snapping. six men had been burned in the struggle. and drogon ... the winged shadow, the grieving father called him. he was the largest of her three, the fiercest, the wildest, with scales as black as night and eyes like pits of fire. drogon hunted far afield, but when he was sated he liked to bask in the sun at the apex of the great pyramid, where once the harpy of meereen had stood. thrice they had tried to take him there, and thrice they had failed. two score of her bravest had risked themselves trying to capture him. almost all had suffered burns, and four of them had died. the last she had seen of drogon had been at sunset on the night of the third attempt. the black dragon had been flying north across the skahazadhan toward the tall grasses of the dothraki sea. he had not returned. mother of dragons, daenerys thought. mother of monsters. what have i unleashed upon the world? agueen i am, but my throne is made of burned bones, and it rests on guicksand. without dragons, how could she hope to hold meereen, much less win back westerns? i am the blood of the dragon, she thought. if they are monsters, so am i. the dancers shimmered, their sleek shaved bodies covered with a fine sheen of oil. blazing torches whirled from hand to hand to the beat of drums and the trilling of a flute. whenever two torches crossed in the air, a naked girl leapt between them, spinning. the torchlight shone off oiled limbs and breasts and buttocks. the three men were erect. the sight of their arousal was arousing, though daenerys targaryen found it comical as well. the men were all of a height, with long legs and flat bellies, every muscle as sharply etched as if it had been chiseled out of stone. even their faces looked the same, somehow ... which was passing strange, since one had skin as dark as ebony, while the second was as pale as milk, and the third gleamed like burnished copper. are they meant to inflame me? dany stirred amongst her silken cushions. against the pillars her unsullied stood like statues in their spiked caps, their smooth faces expressionless. not so the whole men. reznak mo reznak's mouth was open, and his lips glistened wetly as he watched. hizdahr zo loraq was saying something to the man beside him, yet all the time his eyes were on the dancing girls. the shavepate's ugly, oily face was as stern as ever, but he missed nothing. it was harder to know what her honored guest was dreaming. the pale, lean, hawk-faced man who shared her high table was resplendent in robes of maroon silk and cloth-of-gold, his bald head shining in the torchlight as he devoured a fig with small, precise, elegant bites. opals winked along the nose of xaro xhoan daxos as his head turned to follow the dancers. in his honor daenerys had donned a qartheen gown, a sheer confection of violet samite cut so as to leave her left breast bare. her silver-gold hair brushed lightly over her shoulder, falling almost to her nipple. half the men in the hall had stolen glances at her, but not xaro. it was the same in qarth. she could not sway the merchant prince that way. sway him i must, however. he had come from qarth upon thegalleas silken cloud with thirteen galleys sailing attendance, his fleet an answered prayer. meereen's trade had dwindled away to nothing since she had ended slavery, but xaro had the power to restore it. as the drums reached a crescendo, three of the girls leapt above the flames, spinning in the air. the male dancers caught them about the waists and slid them down onto their members. dany watched as the women arched their backs and coiled their legs around their partners while the flutes wept and the men thrust in time to the music. she had seen the act of love before; the dothraki mated as openly as their mares and stallions. this was the first time she had seen lust put to music, though. her face was warm. the wine, she told herself. yet somehow she found herself thinking of daario naharis. his messenger had come that morning. the stormcrows were returning from lhazar. her captain was riding back to her, bringing her the friendship of the lamb men. food and trade, she reminded herself. he did not fail me, nor will he. daario will help me save my city. the queen longed to see his face, to stroke his three-pronged beard, to tell him her troubles ... but the stormcrows were still many days away, beyond the khyzai pass, and she had a realm to rule. smoke hung between the purple pillars. the dancers knelt, heads bowed. you were splendid, dany told them. seldom have i seen such grace, such beauty. she beckoned to reznak mo reznak, and the seneschal scurried to her side. beads of sweat dotted his bald, wrinkled head. escort our guests to the baths, that they may refresh themselves, and bring them food and drink. it shall be my great honor, magnificence. daenerys held out her cup for irri to refill. the wine was sweet and strong, redolent with the smell of eastern spices, much superior to the thin ghiscari wines that had filled her cup of late. xaro perused the fruits on the platter jhiqui offered him and chose a persimmon. its orange skin matched the color of the coral in his nose. he took a bite and pursed his lips. tart. would my lord prefer something sweeter? sweetness cloys. tart fruit and tart women give life its savor. xaro took another bite, chewed, swallowed. daenerys, sweet queen, i cannot tell you what pleasure it gives me to bask once more in your presence. a child departed qarth, as lost as she was lovely. i feared she was sailing to her doom, yet now i find her here enthroned, mistress of an ancient city, surrounded by a mighty host that she raised up out of dreams. no, she thought, out of blood and fire. i am glad you came to me. it is good to see your face again, my friend. / will not trust you, but i need you. i need your thirteen, i need your ships, i need your trade. for centuries meereen and her sister cities yunkai and astapor had been the linchpins of the slave trade, the place where dothraki khals and the corsairs of the basilisk isles sold their captives and the rest of the world came to buy. without slaves, meereen had little to offer traders. copper was plentiful in the ghiscari hills, but the metal was not as valuable as it had been when bronze ruled the world. the cedars that had once grown tall along the coast grew no more, felled by the axes of the old empire or consumed by dragonfire when ghis made war against valyria. once the trees had gone, the soil baked beneath the hot sun and blew away in thick red clouds. it was these calamities that transformed my people into slavers, galazza galare had told her, at the temple of the graces. and i am the calamity that will change these slavers back into people, dany had sworn to herself. i had to come, said xaro in a languid tone. even far away in qarth, fearful tales had reached my ears. i wept to hear them. it is said that your enemies have promised wealth and glory and a hundred virgin slave girls to any man who slays you. the sons of the harpy. how does he know that? they scrawl on walls by night and cut the throats of honest freedmen as they sleep. when the sun comes up they hide like roaches. they fear my brazen beasts. skahaz mo kandaq had given her the new watch she had asked for, made up in equal numbers of freedmen and shavepate meereenese. they walked the streets both day and night, in dark hoods and brazen masks. the sons of the harpy had promised grisly death to any traitor who dared serve the dragon queen, and to their kith and kin as well, so the shavepate's men went about as jackals, owls, and other beasts, keeping their true faces hidden. i might have cause to fear the sons if they saw me wandering alone through the streets, but only if it was night and i was naked and unarmed. they are craven creatures. a craven's knife can slay a queen as easily as a hero's. i would sleep more soundly if i knew my heart's delight had kept her fierce horselords close around her. in qarth, you had three bloodriders who never left your side. wherever have they gone? aggo, jhoqo, and rakharo still serve me. he is playing games with me. dany could play as well. i am only a young girl and know little of such things, but older, wiser men tell me that to hold meereen i must control its hinterlands, all the land west of lhazar as far south as the yunkish hills. your hinterlands are not precious to me. your person is. should any ill befall you, this world would lose its savor. my lord is good to care so much, but i am well protected. dany gestured toward where barristan selmy stood with one hand resting on his sword hilt. barristan the bold, they call him. twice he has saved me from assassins. xaro gave selmy a cursory inspection. barristan the old, did you say? your bear knight was younger, and devoted to you. i do not wish to speak of jorah mormont. to be sure. the man was coarse and hairy. the merchant prince leaned across the table. let us speak instead of love, of dreams and desire and daenerys, the fairest woman in this world. i am drunk with the sight of you. she was no stranger to the overblown courtesies of qarth. if you are drunk, blame the wine. no wine is half so intoxicating as your beauty. my manse has seemed as empty as a tomb since daenerys departed, and all the pleasures of the queen of cities have been as ashes in my mouth. why did you abandon me? / was hounded from your city in fear for my life. it was time. qarth wished me gone. who? the pureborn? they have water in their veins. the spicers? there are curds between their ears. and the undying are all dead. you should have taken me to husband. i am almost certain that i asked you for your hand. begged you, even. only half a hundred times, dany teased. you gave up too easily, my lord. for i must marry, all agree. a khaleesi must have a khal, said irri, as she filled the queen's cup once again. this is known. shall i ask again? wondered xaro. no, i know that smile. it is a cruel queen who dices with men's hearts. humble merchants like myself are no more than stones beneath your jeweled sandals. a single tear ran slowly down his pale white cheek. dany knew him too well to be moved. qartheen men could weep at will. oh, stop that. she took a cherry from the bowl on the table and threw it at his nose. i may be a young girl, but i am not so foolish as to wed a man who finds a fruit platter more enticing than my breast. i saw which dancers you were watching. xaro wiped away his tear. the same ones your grace was following, i believe. you see, we are alike. if you will not take me for your husband, i am content to be your slave. i want no slave. i free you. his jeweled nose made a tempting target. this time dany threw an apricot at him. xaro caught it in the air and took a bite. whence came this madness? should i count myself fortunate that you did not free my own slaves when you were my guest in qarth? / was a beggar gueen and you were xaro of the thirteen, dany thought, and all you wanted were my dragons. your slaves seemed well treated and content. it was not till astapor that my eyes were opened. do you know how unsullied are made and trained? cruelly, i have no doubt. when a smith makes a sword, he thrusts the blade into the fire, beats on it with a hammer, then plunges it into iced water to temper the steel. if you would savor the sweet taste of the fruit, you must water the tree. this tree has been watered with blood. how else, to grow a soldier? your radiance enjoyed my dancers. would it surprise you to know that they are slaves, bred and trained in yunkai? they have been dancing since they were old enough to walk. how else to achieve such perfection? he took a swallow of his wine. they are expert in all the erotic arts as well. i had thought to make your grace a gift of them. by all means. dany was unsurprised. i shall free them. that made him wince. and what would they do with freedom? as well give a fish a suit of mail. they were made to dance. made by who? their masters? perhaps your dancers would sooner build or bake or farm. have you asked them? perhaps your elephants would sooner be nightingales. instead of sweet song, meereen's nights would be filled with thunderous trumpetings, and your trees would shatter beneath the weight of great grey birds. xaro sighed. daenerys, my delight, beneath that sweet young breast beats a tender heart ... but take counsel from an older, wiser head. things are not always as they seem. much that may seem evil can be good. consider rain. rain? does he take me for a fool, or just a child? we curse the rain when it falls upon our heads, yet without it we should starve. the world needs rain ... and slaves. you make a face, but it is true. consider qarth. in art, music, magic, trade, all that makes us more than beasts, qarth sits above the rest of mankind as you sit at the summit of this pyramid ... but below, in place of bricks, the magnificence that is the queen of cities rests upon the backs of slaves. ask yourself, if all men must grub in the dirt for food, how shall any man lift his eyes to contemplate the stars? if each of us must break his back to build a hovel, who shall raise the temples to glorify the gods? for some men to be great, others must be enslaved. he was too eloquent for her. dany had no answer for him, only the raw feeling in her belly. slavery is not the same as rain, she insisted. i have been rained on and i have been sold. it is not the same. no man wants to be owned. xaro gave a languid shrug. as it happens, when i came ashore in your sweet city, i chanced to see upon the riverbank a man who had once been a guest in my manse, a merchant who dealt in rare spices and choice wines. he was naked from the waist up, red and peeling, and seemed to be digging a hole. not a hole. a ditch, to bring water from the river to the fields. we mean to plant beans. the beanfields must have water. how kind of my old friend to help with the digging. and how very unlike him. is it possible he was given no choice in the matter? no, surely not. you have no slaves in meereen. dany flushed. your friend is being paid with food and shelter. i cannot give him back his wealth. meereen needs beans more than it needs rare spices, and beans require water. would you set my dancers to digging ditches as well? sweet queen, when he saw me, my old friend fell to his knees and begged me to buy him as a slave and take him back to qarth. she felt as if he'd slapped her. buy him, then. if it please you. i know it will please him. he put his hand upon her arm. there are truths only a friend may tell you. i helped you when you came to qarth a beggar, and i have crossed long leagues and stormy seas to help you once again. is there some place where we might speak frankly? dany could feel the warmth of his fingers. he was warm in qarth as well, she recalled, until the day he had no more use for me. she rose to her feet. come, she said, and xaro followed her through the pillars, to the wide marble steps that led up to her private chambers at the apex of the pyramid. oh most beautiful of women, xaro said, as they began to climb, there are footsteps behind us. we are followed. my old knight does not frighten you, surely? ser barristan is sworn to keep my secrets. she took him out onto the terrace that overlooked the city. a full moon swam in the black sky above meereen. shall we walk? dany slipped her arm through his. the air was heavy with the scent of night-blooming flowers. you spoke of help. trade with me, then. meereen has salt to sell, and wine ... ghiscari wine? xaro made a sour face. the sea provides all the salt that qarth requires, but i would gladly take as many olives as you cared to sell me. olive oil as well. i have none to offer. the slavers burned the trees. olives had been grown along the shores of slaver's bay for centuries; but the meereenese had put their ancient groves to the torch as dany's host advanced on them, leaving her to cross a blackened wasteland. we are replanting, but it takes seven years before an olive tree begins to bear, and thirty years before it can truly be called productive. what of copper? a pretty metal, but fickle as a woman. gold, now ... gold is sincere. qarth will gladly give you gold ... for slaves. meereen is a free city of free men. a poor city that once was rich. a hungry city that once was fat. a bloody city that once was peaceful. his accusations stung. there was too much truth in them. meereen will be rich and fat and peaceful once again, and free as well. go to the dothraki if you must have slaves. dothraki make slaves, ghiscari train them. and to reach qarth, the horselords must needs drive their captives across the red waste. hundreds would die, if not thousands ... and many horses too, which is why no khal will risk it. and there is this: qarth wants no khalasars seething round our walls. the stench of all those horses ... meaning no offense, khaleesi. a horse has an honest smell. that is more than can be said of some great lords and merchant princes. xaro took no notice of the sally. daenerys, let me be honest with you, as befits a friend. you will not make meereen rich and fat and peaceful. you will only bring it to destruction, as you did astapor. you are aware that there was battle joined at the horns of hazzat? the butcher king has fled back to his palace, his new unsullied running at his heels. this is known. brown ben plumm had sent back word of the battle from the field. the yunkai'i have bought themselves new sellswords, and two legions from new ghis fought beside them. two will soon become four, then ten. and yunkish envoys have been sent to myr and volantis to hire more blades. the company of the cat, the long lances, the windblown. some say that the wise masters have bought the golden company as well. her brother viserys had once feasted the captains of the golden company, in hopes they might take up his cause. they ate his food and heard his pleas and laughed at him. dany had only been a little girl, but she remembered. i have sellswords too. two companies. the yunkai'i will send twenty against you if they must. and when they march, they will not march alone. tolos and mantarys have agreed to an alliance. that was ill news, if true. daenerys had sent missions to tolos and mantarys, hoping to find new friends to the west to balance the enmity of yunkai to the south. her envoys had not returned. meereen has made alliance with lhazar. that only made him chuckle. the dothraki horselords call the lhazarene the lamb men. when you shear them, all they do is bleat. they are not a martial people. even a sheepish friend is better than none. the wise masters should follow their example. i spared yunkai before, but i will not make that mistake again. if they should dare attack me, this time i shall raze their yellow city to the ground. and whilst you are razing yunkai, my sweet, meereen shall rise behind you. do not close your eyes to your peril, daenerys. your eunuchs are fine soldiers, but they are too few to match the hosts that yunkai will send against you, once astapor has fallen. myfreedman— dany started. bedslaves, barbers, and brickmakers win no battles. he was wrong in that, she hoped. the freedmen had been a rabble once, but she had organized the men of fighting age into companies and commanded grey worm to make them into soldiers. let him think what he will. have you forgotten? i have dragons. do you? in qarth, you were seldom seen without a dragon on your shoulder ... yet now that shapely shoulder is as fair and bare as your sweet breast, i observe. my dragons have grown, my shoulders have not. they range far afield, hunting. hazzea, forgive me. she wondered how much xaro knew, what whispers he had heard. ask the good masters of astapor about my dragons if you doubt them. / saw a slaver's eyes melt and go running down his cheeks. tell me true, old friend, why did you seek me out if not to trade? to bring a gift, for the queen of my heart. say on. what trap is this, now? the gift you begged of me in qarth. ships. there are thirteen galleys in the bay. yours, if you will have them. i have brought you a fleet, to carry you home to westerns. a fleet. it was more than she could hope for, so of course it made her wary. in qarth, xaro had offered her thirty ships ... for a dragon. and what price do you ask for these ships? none. i no longer lust for dragons. i saw their work at astapor on my way here, when my silken cloud put in for water. the ships are yours, sweet queen. thirteen galleys, and men to pull the oars. thirteen. to be sure. xaro was one of the thirteen. no doubt he had convinced each of his fellow members to give up one ship. she knew the merchant prince too well to think that he would sacrifice thirteen of his own ships. i must consider this. may i inspect these ships? you have grown suspicious, daenerys. always. i have grown wise, xaro. inspect all you wish. when you are satisfied, swear to me that you shall return to westerns forthwith, and the ships are yours. swear by your dragons and your seven-faced god and the ashes of your fathers, and go. and if i should decide to wait a year, or three? a mournful look crossed xaro's face. that would make me very sad, my sweet delight ... for young and strong as you now seem, you shall not live so long. not here. he offers the honeycomb with one hand and shows the whip with the other. the yunkai'i are not so fearsome as all that. not all your enemies are in the yellow city. beware men with cold hearts and blue lips. you had not been gone from qarth a fortnight when pyat pree set out with three of his fellow warlocks, to seek for you in pentos. dany was more amused than afraid. it is good i turned aside, then. pentos is half a world from meereen. this is so, he allowed, yet soon or late word must reach them of the dragon queen of slaver's bay. is that meant to frighten me? i lived in fear for fourteen years, my lord. i woke afraid each morning and went to sleep afraid each night ... but my fears were burned away the day i came forth from the fire. only one thing frightens me now. and what is it that you fear, sweet queen? i am only a foolish young girl. dany rose on her toes and kissed his cheek. but not so foolish as to tell you that. my men shall look at these ships. then you shall have my answer. as you say. he touched her bare breast lightly, and whispered, let me stay and help persuade you. for a moment she was tempted. perhaps the dancers had stirred her after all. / could close my eyes and pretend that he was daario. a dream daario would be safer than the real one. but she pushed the thought aside. no, my lord. i thank you, but no. dany slipped from his arms. some other night, perhaps. some other night. his mouth was sad, but his eyes seemed more relieved than disappointed. /// were a dragon, i could fly to westerns, she thought when he was gone. / would have no need of xaro or his ships. dany wondered how many men thirteen galleys could hold. it had taken three to carry her and her khalasar from qarth to astapor, but that was before she had acquired eight thousand unsullied, a thousand sellswords, and a vast horde of freedmen. and the dragons, what am i to do with them? drogon, she whispered softly, where are you? for a moment she could almost see him sweeping across the sky, his black wings swallowing the stars. she turned her back upon the night, to where barristan selmy stood silent in the shadows. my brother once told me a westerosi riddle. who listens to everything yet hears nothing? a knight of the kingsguard. selmy's voice was solemn. you heard xaro make his offer? i did, your grace. the old knight took pains not to look at her bare breast as he spoke to her. serjorah would not turn his eyes away. he loved me as a woman, where ser barristan loves me only as his queen. mormont had been an informer, reporting to her enemies in westerns, yet he had given her good counsel too. what do you think of it? of him? of him, little and less. these ships, though ... your grace, with these ships we might be home before year's end. dany had never known a home. in braavos, there had been a house with a red door, but that was all. beware of qartheen bearing gifts, especially merchants of the thirteen. there is some trap here. perhaps these ships are rotten, or ... if they were so unsea worthy, they could not have crossed the sea from qarth, ser barristan pointed out, but your grace was wise to insist upon inspection. i will take admiral groleo to the galleys at first light with his captains and two score of his sailors. we can crawl over every inch of those ships. it was good counsel. yes, make it so. westerns. home. but if she left, what would happen to her city? meereen was never your city, her brother's voice seemed to whisper. your cities are across the sea. your seven kingdoms, where your enemies await you. you were born to serve them blood and fire. ser barristan cleared his throat and said, this warlock that the merchant spoke of ... pyat pree. she tried to recall his face, but all she could see were his lips. the wine of the warlocks had turned them blue. shade-of-the-evening, it was called. if a warlock's spell could kill me, i would be dead by now. i left their palace all in ashes. drogon saved me when they would have drained my life from me. drogon burned them all. as you say, your grace. still. i will be watchful. she kissed him on the cheek. i know you will. come, walk me back down to the feast. the next morning dany woke as full of hope as she had been since first she came to slaver's bay. daario would soon be at her side once more, and together they would sail for westerns. for home. one of her young hostages brought her morning meal, a plump shy girl named mezzara, whose father ruled the pyramid of merreq, and dany gave her a happy hug and thanked her with a kiss. xaro xhoan daxos has offered me thirteen galleys, she told irri and jhiqui as they were dressing her for court. thirteen is a bad number, khaleesi, murmured jhiqui, in the dothraki tongue. it is known. it is known/' irri agreed. thirty would be better/' daenerys agreed. three hundred better still. but thirteen may suffice to carry us to westerns. the two dothraki girls exchanged a look. the poison water is accursed, khaleesi, said irri. horses cannot drink it. i do not intend to drink it, dany promised them. only four petitioners awaited her that morning. as ever, lord ghael was the first to present himself, looking even more wretched than usual. your radiance, he moaned, as he fell to the marble at her feet, the armies of the yunkai'i descend on astapor. i beg you, come south with all your strength! i warned your king that this war of his was folly, dany reminded him. he would not listen. great cleon sought only to strike down the vile slavers of yunkai. great cleon is a slaver himself. i know that the mother of dragons will not abandon us in our hour of peril. lend us your unsullied to defend our walls. and if i do, who will defend my walls? many of my freedmen were slaves in astapor. perhaps some will wish to help defend your king. that is their choice, as free men. i gave astapor its freedom. it is up to you to defend it. we are all dead, then. you gave us death, not freedom. ghael leapt to his feet and spat into her face. strong belwas seized him by the shoulder and slammed him down onto the marble so hard that dany heard ghael's teeth crack. the shavepate would have done worse, but she stopped him. enough, she said, dabbing at her cheek with the end of her tokar. no one has ever died from spittle. take him away. they dragged him out feet first, leaving several broken teeth and a trail of blood behind. dany would gladly have sent the rest of the petitioners away... but she was still their queen, so she heard them out and did her best to give them justice. late that afternoon admiral groleo and ser barristan returned from their inspection of the galleys. dany assembled her council to hear them. grey worm was there for the unsullied, skahaz mo kandaq for the brazen beasts. in the absence of her bloodriders, a wizened jaqqa rhan called rommo, squint-eyed and bowlegged, came to speak for her dothraki. her freedmen were represented by the captains of the three companies she had formed— mollono yos dob of the stalwart shields, symon stripe-back of the free brothers, marselen of the mother's men. reznak mo reznak hovered at the queen's elbow, and strong belwas stood behind her with his huge arms crossed. dany would not lack for counsel. groleo had been a most unhappy man since they had broken up his ship to build the siege engines that won meereen for her. dany had tried to console him by naming him her lord admiral, but it was a hollow honor; the meereenese fleet had sailed for yunkai when dany's host approached the city, so the old pentoshi was an admiral without ships. yet now he was smiling through his ragged salt-streaked beard in a way that the queen could scarce remember. the ships are sound, then? she said, hoping. sound enough, your grace. they are old ships, aye, but most are well maintained. the hull of the pureborn princess is worm-eaten. i'd not want to take her beyond the sight of land. the narraqqa could stand a new rudder and lines, and the banded lizard has some cracked oars, but they will serve. the rowers are slaves, but if we offer them an honest oarsman's wage, most will stay with us. rowing's all they know. those who leave can be replaced from my own crews. it is a long hard voyage to westerns, but these ships are sound enough to get us there, i'd judge. reznak mo reznak gave a piteous moan. then it is true. your worship means to abandon us. he wrung his hands. the yunkai'i will restore the great masters the instant you are gone, and we who have so faithfully served your cause will be put to the sword, our sweet wives and maiden daughters raped and enslaved. not mine, grumbled skahaz shavepate. i will kill them first, with mine own hand. he slapped his sword hilt. dany felt as if he had slapped her face instead. if you fear what may follow when i leave, come with me to westerns. wherever the mother of dragons goes, the mother's men will go as well, announced marselen, missandei's remaining brother. how? asked symon stripeback, named for the tangle of scars that ridged his back and shoulders, a reminder of the whippings he had suffered as a slave in astapor. thirteen ships ... that's not enough. a hundred ships might not be enough. wooden horses are no good, objected rommo, the old jaqqa rhan. dothraki will ride. these ones could march overland along the shore, suggested grey worm. the ships could keep pace and resupply the column. that might serve until you reached the ruins of bhorash, said the shavepate. beyond that, your ships would need to turn south past tolos and the isle of cedars and sail around valyria, whilst the foot continued on to mantarys by the old dragon road. the demon road, they call it now, said mollono yos dob. the plump commander of the stalwart shields looked more like a scribe than a soldier, with his inky hands and heavy paunch, but he was as clever as they came. many and more of us would die. those left behind in meereen would envy them their easy deaths, moaned reznak. they will make slaves of us, or throw us in the pits. all will be as it was, or worse. where is your courage? ser barristan lashed out. her grace freed you from your chains. it is for you to sharpen your swords and defend your own freedom when she leaves. brave words, from one who means to sail into the sunset, symon stripeback snarled back. will you look back at our dying? your grace—  magnificence— your worship— enough. dany slapped the table. no one will be left to die. you are all my people. her dreams of home and love had blinded her. i will not abandon meereen to the fate of astapor. it grieves me to say so, but westerns must wait. groleo was aghast. we must accept these ships. if we refuse this gift ... ser barristan went to one knee before her. my queen, your realm has need of you. you are not wanted here, but in westerns men will flock to your banners by the thousands, great lords and noble knights.'she is come,' they will shout to one another, in glad voices.' prince rhaegar's sister has come home at last.' if they love me so much, they will wait for me. dany stood. reznak, summon xaroxhoan daxos. she received the merchant prince alone, seated on her bench of polished ebony, on the cushions ser barristan had brought her. four qartheen sailors accompanied him, bearing a rolled tapestry upon their shoulders. i have brought another gift for the queen of my heart, xaro announced. it has been in my family vaults since before the doom that took valyria. the sailors unrolled the tapestry across the floor. it was old, dusty, faded ... and huge. dany had to movetoxaro's side before the patterns became plain. a map? it is beautiful. it covered half the floor. the seas were blue, the lands were green, the mountains black and brown. cities were shown as stars in gold or silver thread. there is no smoking sea, she realized. valyria is not yet an island. there you see astapor, and yunkai, and meereen. xaro pointed at three silver stars beside the blue of slaver's bay. westerns is ... somewhere down there. his hand waved vaguely toward the far end of the hall. you turned north when you should have continued south and west, across the summer sea, but with my gift you shall soon be back where you belong. accept my galleys with a joyful heart, and bend your oars westward. would that i could. my lord, i will gladly have those ships, but i cannot give you the promise that you ask. she took his hand. give me the galleys, and i swear that qarth will have the friendship of meereen until the stars go out. let me trade with them, and you will have a good part of the profits. xaro's glad smile died upon his lips. what are you saying? are you telling me you will not go? i cannot go. tears welled from his eyes, creeping down his nose, past emeralds, amethysts, and black diamonds. i told the thirteen that you would heed my wisdom. it grieves me to learn that i was wrong. take these ships and sail away, or you will surely die screaming. you cannot know how many enemies you have made. / know one stands before me now, weeping mummer's tears. the realization made her sad. when i went to the hall of a thousand thrones to beg the pureborn for your life, i said that you were no more than a child, xaro went on, but egon emeros the exquisite rose and said,'she is a foolish child, mad and heedless and too dangerous to live.' when your dragons were small they were a wonder. grown, they are death and devastation, a flaming sword above the world. he wiped away the tears. i should have slain you in qarth. i was a guest beneath your roof and ate of your meat and mead, she said. in memory of all you did for me, i will forgive those words ... once ... but never presume to threaten me again. xaro xhoan daxos does not threaten. he promises. her sadness turned to fury. and i promise you that if you are not gone before the sun comes up, we will learn how well a liar's tears can quench dragonfire. leave me, xaro. quickly. he went but left his world behind. dany seated herself upon her bench again to gaze across the blue silk sea, toward distant westerns. one day, she promised herself. the next morning xaro's galleas was gone, but the gift that he had brought her remained behind in slaver's bay. long red streamers flew from the masts of the thirteen qartheen galleys, writhing in the wind. and when daenerys descended to hold court, a messenger from the ships awaited her. he spoke no word but laid at her feet a black satin pillow, upon which rested a single bloodstained glove. what is this? skahaz demanded. a bloody glove ... ... means war, said the queen. galazza galare arrived at the great pyramid attended by a dozen white graces, girls of noble birth who were still too young to have served their year in the temple's pleasure gardens. they made for a pretty portrait, the proud old woman all in green surrounded by the little girls robed and veiled in white, armored in their innocence. the queen welcomed them warmly, then summoned missandei to see that the girls were fed and entertained whilst she shared a private supper with the green grace. her cooks had prepared them a magnificent meal of honeyed lamb, fragrant with crushed mint and served with the small green figs she liked so much. two of dany's favorite hostages served the food and kept the cups filled— a doe-eyed little girl called qezza and a skinny boy named grazhar. they were brother and sister, and cousins of the green grace, who greeted them with kisses when she swept in, and asked them if they had been good. they are very sweet, the both of them, dany assured her. qezza sings for me sometimes. she has a lovely voice. and ser barristan has been instructing grazhar and the other boys in the ways of western chivalry. they are of my blood, the green grace said, as qezza filled her cup with a dark red wine. it is good to know they have pleased your radiance. i hope i may do likewise. the old woman's hair was white and her skin was parchment thin, but the years had not dimmed her eyes. they were as green as her robes; sad eyes, full of wisdom. if you will forgive my saying so, your radiance looks ... weary. are you sleeping? it was all dany could do not to laugh. not well. last night three qartheen galleys sailed up the skahazadhan under the cover of darkness. the mother's men loosed flights of fire arrows at their sails and flung pots of burning pitch onto their decks, but the galleys slipped by quickly and suffered no lasting harm. the qartheen mean to close the river to us, as they have closed the bay. and they are no longer alone. three galleys from new ghis have joined them, and a carrack out of tolos. the tolosi had replied to her request for an alliance by proclaiming her a whore and demanding that she return meereen to its great masters. even that was preferable to the answer of mantarys, which came by way of caravan in a cedar chest. inside she had found the heads of her three envoys, pickled. perhaps your gods can help us. ask them to send a gale and sweep the galleys from the bay. i shall pray and make sacrifice. mayhaps the gods of ghis will hear me. galazza galare sipped her wine, but her eyes did not leave dany. storms rage within the walls as well as without. more freedmen died last night, or so i have been told. three. saying it left a bitter taste in her mouth. the cowards broke in on some weavers, freedwomen who had done no harm to anyone. all they did was make beautiful things. i have a tapestry they gave me hanging over my bed. the sons of the harpy broke their loom and raped them before slitting their throats. this we have heard. and yet your radiance has found the courage to answer butchery with mercy. you have not harmed any of the noble children you hold as hostage. not as yet, no. dany had grown fond of her young charges. some were shy and some were bold, some sweet and some sullen, but all were innocent. if i kill my cupbearers, who will pour my wine and serve my supper? she said, trying to make light of it. the priestess did not smile. the shavepate would feed them to your dragons, it is said. a life for a life. for every brazen beast cut down, he would have a child die. dany pushed her food about her plate. she dare not glance over to where grazhar and qezza stood, for fear that she might cry. the shavepate has a harder heart than mine. they had fought about the hostages half a dozen times. the sons of the harpy are laughing in their pyramids, skahaz said, just this morning. what good are hostages if you will not take their heads? in his eyes, she was only a weak woman. hazzea was enough. what good is peace if it must be purchased with the blood of little children? these murders are not their doing, dany told the green grace, feebly. i am no butcher queen. and for that meereen gives thanks, said galazza galare. we have heard that the butcher king of astapor is dead. slain by his own soldiers when he commanded them to march out and attack the yunkai'i. the words were bitter in her mouth. he was hardly cold before another took his place, calling himself cleon the second. that one lasted eight days before his throat was opened. then his killer claimed the crown. so did the first cleon's concubine. king cutthroat and queen whore, the astapori call them. their followers are fighting battles in the streets, while the yunkai'i and their sellswords wait outside the walls. these are grievous times. your radiance, might i presume to offer you my counsel? you know how much i value your wisdom. then heed me now and marry. ah. dany had been expecting this. oftimes i have heard you say that you are only a young girl. to look at you, you still seem half a child, too young and frail to face such trials by yourself. you need a king beside you to help you bear these burdens. dany speared a chunk of lamb, took a bite from it, chewed slowly. tell me, can this king puff his cheeks up and blow xaro's galleys back to qarth? can he clap his hands and break the siege of astapor? can he put food in the bellies of my children and bring peace back to my streets? can you? the green grace asked. a king is not a god, but there is still much that a strong man might do. when my people look at you, they see a conqueror from across the seas, come to murder us and make slaves of our children. a king could change that. a highborn king of pure ghiscari blood could reconcile the city to your rule. elsewise, i fear, your reign must end as it began, in blood and fire. dany pushed her food about her plate. and who would the gods of ghis have me take as my king and consort? hizdahr zo loraq, galazza galare said firmly. dany did not trouble to feign surprise. why hizdahr? skahaz is noble born as well. skahaz is kandaq, hizdahr loraq. your radiance will forgive me, but only one who is not herself ghiscari would not understand the difference. oft have i heard that yours is the blood of aegon the conqueror, jaehaerys the wise, and daeron the dragon. the noble hizdahr is of the blood of mazdhan the magnificent, hazrakthe handsome, and zharaq the liberator. his forebears are as dead as mine. will hizdahr raise their shades to defend meereen against its enemies? i need a man with ships and swords. you offer me ancestors. we are an old people. ancestors are important to us. wed hizdahr zo loraq and make a son with him, a son whose father is the harpy, whose mother is the dragon. in him the prophecies shall be fulfilled, and your enemies will melt away like snow. he shall be the stallion that mounts the world. dany knew how it went with prophecies. they were made of words, and words were wind. there would be no son for loraq, no heir to unite dragon and harpy. when the sun rises in the west and sets in the east, when the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves. only then would her womb quicken once again ... ... but daenerys targaryen had other children, tens of thousands who had hailed her as their mother when she broke their chains. she thought of stalwart shield, of missandei's brother, of the woman rylona rhee, who had played the harp so beautifully. no marriage would ever bring them back to life, but if a husband could help end the slaughter, then she owed it to her dead to marry. /// wed hizdahr, will that turn skahaz against me? she trusted skahaz more than she trusted hizdahr, but the shavepate would be a disaster as a king. he was too quick to anger, too slow to forgive. she saw no gain in wedding a man as hated as herself. hizdahr was well respected, so far as she could see. what does my prospective husband think of this? she asked the green grace. what does he think of me? your grace need only ask him. the noble hizdahr awaits below. send down to him if that is your pleasure. you presume too much, priestess, the queen thought, but she swallowed her anger and made herself smile. why not? she sent for ser barristan and told the old knight to bring hizdahr to her. it is a long climb. have the unsullied help him up. by the time the nobleman had made the ascent, the green grace had finished eating. if it please your magnificence, i will take my leave. you and the noble hizdahr will have many things to discuss, i do not doubt. the old woman dabbed a smear of honey off her lips, gave qezza and grazhar each a parting kiss upon the brow, and fastened her sil ken veil across her face. i shall return to the temple of the graces and pray for the gods to show my queen the course of wisdom. when she was gone, dany let qezza fill her cup again, dismissed the children, and commanded that hizdahr zo loraq be admitted to her presence. and if he dares say one word about his precious fighting pits, i may have him thrown off the terrace. hizdahr wore a plain green robe beneath a quilted vest. he bowed low when he entered, his face solemn. have you no smile for me? dany asked him. am i as fearful as all that? i always grow solemn in the presence of such beauty. it was a good start. drink with me. dany filled his cup herself. you know why you are here. the green grace seems to feel that if i take you for my husband, all my woes will vanish. i would never make so bold a claim. men are born to strive and suffer. our woes only vanish when we die. i can be of help to you, however. i have gold and friends and influence, and the blood of old ghis flows in my veins. though i have never wed, i have two natural children, a boy and a girl, so i can give you heirs. i can reconcile the city to your rule and put an end to this nightly slaughter in the streets. can you? dany studied his eyes. why should the sons of the harpy lay down their knives for you? are you one of them? no. would you tell me if you were? he laughed. no. the shavepate has ways of finding the truth. i do not doubt that skahaz would soon have me confessing. a day with him, and i will be one of the harpy's sons. two days, and i will be the harpy. three, and it will turn out i slew your father too, back in the sunset kingdoms when i was yet a boy. then he will impale me on a stake and you can watch me die ... but afterward the killings will go on. hizdahr leaned closer. or you can marry me and let me try to stop them. why would you want to help me? for the crown? a crown would suit me well, i will not deny that. it is more than that, however. is it so strange that i would want to protect my own people, as you protect your freedmen? meereen cannot endure another war, your radiance. that was a good answer, and an honest one. i have never wanted war. i defeated the yunkai'i once and spared their city when i might have sacked it. i refused to join king cleon when he marched against them. even now, with astapor besieged, i stay my hand. and qarth ... i have never done the qartheen any harm ... not by intent, no, but qarth is a city of merchants, and they love the clink of silver coins, the gleam of yellow gold. when you smashed the slave trade, the blow was felt from westerns to asshai. qarth depends upon its slaves. so too tolos, new ghis, lys, tyrosh, volantis ... the list is long, my queen. let them come. in me they shall find a sterner foe than cleon. i would sooner perish fighting than return my children to bondage. there may be another choice. the yunkai'i can be persuaded to allow all your freedmen to remain free, i believe, if your worship will agree that the yellow city may trade and train slaves unmolested from this day forth. no more blood need flow. save for the blood of those slaves that the yunkai'i will trade and train, dany said, but she recognized the truth in his words even so. it may be that is the best end we can hope for. you have not said you love me. i will, if it would please your radiance. that is not the answer of a man in love. what is love? desire? no man with all his parts could ever look on you and not desire you, daenerys. that is not why i would marry you, however. before you came meereen was dying. our rulers were old men with withered cocks and crones whose puckered cunts were dry as dust. they sat atop their pyramids sipping apricot wine and talking of the glories of the old empire whilst the centuries slipped by and the very bricks of the city crumbled all around them. custom and caution had an iron grip upon us till you awakened us with fire and blood. a new time has come, and new things are possible. marry me. he is not hard to look at, dany told herself, and he has a king's tongue. kiss me, she commanded. he took her hand again, and kissed her fingers. not that way. kiss me as if i were your wife. hizdahr took her by the shoulders as tenderly as if she were a baby bird. leaning forward, he pressed his lips to hers. his kiss was light and dry and quick. dany felt no stirrings. shall i ... kiss you again? he asked when it was over. no. on her terrace, in her bathing pool, the little fish would nibble at her legs as she soaked. even they kissed with more fervor than hizdahr zo loraq. i do not love you. hizdahr shrugged. that may come, in time. it has been known to happen that way. not with us, she thought. not whilst daario is so close. it's him i want, not you. one day i will want to return to westeros, to claim the seven kingdoms that were my father's. one day all men must die, but it serves no good to dwell on death. i prefer to take each day as it comes. dany folded her hands together. words are wind, even words like love and peace. i put more trust in deeds. in my seven kingdoms, knights go on quests to prove themselves worthy of the maiden that they love. they seek for magic swords, for chests of gold, for crowns stolen from a dragon's hoard. hizdahr arched an eyebrow. the only dragons that i know are yours, and magic swords are even scarcer. i will gladly bring you rings and crowns and chests of gold if that is your desire. peace is my desire. you say that you can help me end the nightly slaughter in my streets. i say do it. put an end to this shadow war, my lord. that is your quest. give me ninety days and ninety nights without a murder, and i will know that you are worthy of a throne. can you do that? hizdahr looked thoughtful. ninety days and ninety nights without a corpse, and on the ninety-first we wed? perhaps, said dany, with a coy look. though young girls have been known to be fickle. i may still want a magic sword. hizdahr laughed. then you shall have that too, radiance. your wish is my command. best tell your seneschal to begin making preparations for our wedding. nothing would please the noble reznak more. if meereen knew that a wedding was in the offing, that alone might buy her a few nights' respite, even if hizdahr's efforts came to naught. the shavepate will not be happy with me, but reznak mo reznak will dance for joy. dany did not know which of those concerned her more. she needed skahaz and the brazen beasts, and she had come to mistrust all of reznak's counsel. beware the perfumed seneschal. has reznak made common cause with hizdahr and the green grace and set some trap to snare me? no sooner had hizdahr zo loraq taken his leave of her than ser barristan appeared behind her in his long white cloak. years of service in the kingsguard had taught the white knight how to remain unobtrusive when she was entertaining, but he was never far. he knows, she saw at once, and he disapproves. the lines around his mouth had deepened. so, she said to him, it seems that i may wed again. are you happy for me, ser? if that is your command, your grace. hizdahr is not the husband you would have chosen for me. it is not my place to choose your husband. it is not, she agreed, but it is important to me that you should understand. my people are bleeding. dying. a queen belongs not to herself, but to the realm. marriage or carnage, those are my choices. a wedding or a war. your grace, may i speak frankly? always. there is a third choice. westerns? he nodded. i am sworn to serve your grace, and to keep you safe from harm wherever you may go. my place is by your side, whether here or in king's landing ... but your place is back in westerns, upon the iron throne that was your father's. the seven kingdoms will never accept hizdahr zo loraq as king. no more than meereen will accept daenerys targaryen as queen. the green grace has the right of that. i need a king beside me, a king of old ghiscari blood. elsewise they will always see me as the uncouth barbarian who smashed through their gates, impaled their kin on spikes, and stole their wealth. in westerns you will be the lost child who returns to gladden her father's heart. your people will cheer when you ride by, and all good men will love you. westerns is far away. lingering here will never bring it any closer. the sooner we take our leave of this place— i know. i do. dany did not know how to make him see. she wanted westerns as much as he did, but first she must heal meereen. ninety days is a long time. hizdahr may fail. and if he does, the trying buys me time. time to make alliances, to strengthen my defenses, to— and if he does not fail? what will your grace do then? her duty. the word felt cold upon her tongue. you saw my brother rhaegar wed. tell me, did he wed for love or duty? the old knight hesitated. princess elia was a good woman, your grace. she was kind and clever, with a gentle heart and a sweet wit. i know the prince was very fond of her. fond, thought dany. the word spoke volumes. / could become fond of hizdahr zo loraq, in time. perhaps. ser barristan went on. i saw your father and your mother wed as well. forgive me, but there was no fondness there, and the realm paid dearly for that, my queen. why did they wed if they did not love each other? your grandsire commanded it. a woods witch had told him that the prince was promised would be born of their line. a woods witch? dany was astonished. she came to court with jenny of oldstones. a stunted thing, grotesque to look upon. a dwarf, most people said, though dear to lady jenny, who always claimed that she was one of the children of the forest. what became of her? summerhall. the word was fraught with doom. dany sighed. leave me now. i am very weary. as you command. ser barristan bowed and turned to go. but at the door, he stopped. forgive me. your grace has a visitor. shall i tell him to return upon the morrow? who is it? naharis. the stormcrows have returned to the city. daario. her heart gave a flutter in her chest. how long has ... when did he ... ? she could not seem to get the words out. ser barristan seemed to understand. your grace was with the priestess when he arrived. i knew you would not want to be disturbed. the captain's news can wait until the morrow. no. how could i ever hope to sleep, knowing that my captain so close? send him up at once. and ... i will have no more need of you this evening. i shall be safe with daario. oh, and send irri and jhiqui, if you would be so good. and missandei. / need to change, to make myself beautiful. she said as much to her handmaids when they came. what does your grace wish to wear? asked missandei. starlight and seafoam, dany thought, a wisp of silk that leaves my left breast bare for daario's delight. oh, and flowers for my hair. when first they met, the captain brought her flowers every day, all the way from yunkai to meereen. bring the grey linen gown with the pearls on the bodice. oh, and my white lion's pelt. she always felt safer wrapped in drogo's lionskin. daenerys received the captain on her terrace, seated on a carved stone bench beneath a pear tree. a half-moon floated in the sky above the city, attended by a thousand stars. daario naharis entered swaggering. he swaggers even when he is standing still. the captain wore striped pantaloons tucked into high boots of purple leather, a white silk shirt, a vest of golden rings. his trident beard was purple, his flamboyant mustachios gold, his long curls equal parts of both. on one hip he wore a stiletto, on the other a dothraki arakh. bright queen, he said, you have grown more beautiful in my absence. how is this thing possible? the queen was accustomed to such praise, yet somehow the compliment meant more coming from daario than from the likes of reznak, xaro, or hizdahr. captain. they tell us you did us good service in lhazar. / have missed you so much. your captain lives to serve his cruel queen. cruel? moonlight glimmered in his eyes. he raced ahead of all his men to see her face the sooner, only to be left languishing whilst she ate lamb and figs with some dried-up old woman. they never told me you were here, dany thought, or i might have played the fool and sent for you at once. i was supping with the green grace. it seemed best not to mention hizdahr. i had urgent need of her wise counsel. i have only one urgent need: daenerys. shall i send for food? you must be hungry. i have not eaten in two days, but now that i am here, it is enough for me to feast upon your beauty. my beauty will not fill up your belly. she plucked down a pear and tossed it at him. eat this. if my queen commands it. he took a bite of the pear, his gold tooth gleaming. juice ran down into his purple beard. the girl in her wanted to kiss him so much it hurt. his kisses would be hard and cruel, she told herself, and he would not care if i cried out or commanded him to stop. but the queen in her knew that would be folly. tell me of your journey. he gave a careless shrug. the yunkai'i sent some hired swords to close the khyzai pass. the long lances, they name themselves. we descended on them in the night and sent a few to hell. in lhazar i slew two of my own serjeants for plotting to steal the gems and gold plate my queen had entrusted to me as gifts for the lamb men. elsewise, all went as i had promised. how many men did you lose in the fighting? nine, said daario, but a dozen of the long lances decided they would sooner bestormcrows than corpses, so we came out three ahead. i told them they would live longer fighting with your dragons than against them, and they saw the wisdom in my words. that made her wary. they might be spying for yunkai. they are too stupid to be spies. you do not know them. neither do you. do you trust them? i trust all my men. just as far as i can spit. he spat out a seed and smiled at her suspicions. shall i bring their heads to you? i will, if you command it. one is bald and two have braids and one dyes his beard four different colors. what spy would wear such a beard, i ask you? the slinger can put a stone through a gnat's eye at forty paces, and the ugly one has a way with horses, but if my queen says that they must die ... i did not say that. i only ... see that you keep your eye on them, that's all. she felt foolish saying it. she always felt a little foolish when she was with daario. gawky and girlish and slow-witted. what must he think of me? she changed the subject. will the lamb men send us food? grain will come down the skahazadhan by barge, my queen, and other goods by caravan over the khyzai. not the skahazadhan. the river has been closed to us. the seas as well. you will have seen the ships out in the bay. the qartheen have driven off a third of our fishing fleet and seized another third. the others are too frightened to leave port. what little trade we still had has been cut off. daario tossed away the pear stem. qartheen have milk in their veins. let them see your dragons, and they'll run. dany did not want to talk about the dragons. farmers still came to her court with burned bones, complaining of missing sheep, though drogon had not returned to the city. some reported seeing him north of the river, above the grass of the dothraki sea. down in the pit, viserion had snapped one of his chains; he and rhaegal grew more savage every day. once the iron doors had glowed red-hot, her unsullied told her, and no one dared to touch them for a day. astapor is under siege as well. this i knew. one of the long lances lived long enough to tell us that men were eating one another in the red city. he said meereen's turn would come soon, so i cut his tongue out and fed it to a yellow dog. no dog will eat a liar's tongue. when the yellow dog ate his, i knew he spoke the truth. i have war inside the city too. she told him of the harpy's sons and the brazen beasts, of blood upon the bricks. my enemies are all around me, within the city and without. attack, he said at once. a man surrounded by foes cannot defend himself. try, and the axe will take you in the back whilst you are parrying the sword. no. when faced with many enemies, choose the weakest, kill him, ride over him, and escape. where should i escape to? into my bed. into my arms. into my heart. the hilts of daario's arakh and stiletto were wrought in the shape of golden women, naked and wanton. he brushed his thumbs across them in a way that was remarkably obscene and smiled a wicked smile. dany felt blood rushing to her face. it was almost as if he were caressing her. would he think me wanton too if i pulled him into bed? he made her want to be his wanton. / should never see him alone. he is too dangerous to have near me. the green grace says that i must take a ghiscari king, she said, flustered. she urges me to wed the noble hizdahr zo loraq. that one? daario chuckled. why not grey worm, if you want a eunuch in your bed? do you want a king? / want you. i want peace. i gave hizdahr ninety days to end the killings. if he does, i will take him for a husband. take me for your husband. i will do it in nine. you know i cannot do that, she almost said. you are fighting shadows when you should be fighting the men who cast them, daario went on. kill them all and take their treasures, i say. whisper the command, and your daario will make you a pile of their heads taller than this pyramid. if i knew who they were— zhak and pahl and merreq. them, and all the rest. the great masters. who else would it be? he is as bold as he is bloody. we have no proof this is their work. would you have me slaughter my own subjects? your own subjects would gladly slaughter you. he had been so long away, dany had almost forgotten what he was. sellswords were treacherous by nature, she reminded herself. fickle, faithless, brutal. he will never be more than he is. he will never be the stuff of kings. the pyramids are strong, she explained to him. we could take them only at great cost. the moment we attack one the others will rise against us. then winkle them out of their pyramids on some pretext. a wedding might serve. why not? promise your hand to hizdahr and all the great masters will come to see you married. when they gather in the temple of the graces, turn us loose upon them. dany was appalled. he is a monster. a gallant monster, but a monster still. do you take me for the butcher king? better the butcher than the meat. all kings are butchers. are queens so different? this queen is. daario shrugged. most queens have no purpose but to warm some king's bed and pop out sons for him. if that's the sort of queen you mean to be, best marry hizdahr. her anger flashed. have you forgotten who i am? no. have you? viserys would have his head off for that insolence. i am the blood of the dragon. do not presume to teach me lessons. when dany stood, the lion pelt slipped from her shoulders and tumbled to the ground. leave me. daario gave her a sweeping bow. i live to obey. when he was gone, daenerys called ser barristan back. i want the stormcrows back in the field. your grace? they have only now returned ... i want them gone. let them scout the yunkish hinterlands and give protection to any caravans coming over the khyzai pass. henceforth daario shall make his reports to you. give him every honor that is due him and see that his men are well paid, but on no account admit him to my presence. as you say, your grace. that night she could not sleep but turned and twisted restlessly in her bed. she even went so far as to summon irri, hoping her caresses might help ease her way to rest, but after a short while she pushed the dothraki girl away. irri was sweet and soft and willing, but she was not daario. what have i done? she thought, huddled in her empty bed. i have waited so long for him to come back, and i send him away. he would make a monster of me, she whispered, a butcher queen. but then she thought of drogon far away, and the dragons in the pit. there is blood on my hands too, and on my heart. we are not so different, daario and i. we are both monsters. each morning, from her western ramparts, the queen would count the sails on slaver's bay. today she counted five-and-twenty, though some were far away and moving, so it was hard to be certain. sometimes she missed one, or counted one twice. what does it matter? a strangler only needs ten fingers. all trade had stopped, and her fisherfolk did not dare put out into the bay. the boldest still dropped a few lines into the river, though even that was hazardous; more remained tied up beneath meereen's walls of many-colored brick. there were ships from meereen out in the bay too, warships and trading galleys whose captains had taken them to sea when dany's host first laid siege to the city, now returned to augment the fleets from qarth, tolos, and new ghis. her admiral's counsel had proved worse than useless. let them see your dragons, groleo said. let the yunkishmen have a taste of fire, and the trade will flow again. those ships are strangling us, and all my admiral can do is talk of dragons, dany said. you are my admiral, are you not? an admiral without ships. build ships. warships cannot be made from brick. the slavers burned every stand of timber within twenty leagues of here. then ride out two-and-twenty leagues. i will give you wagons, workers, mules, whatever you require. i am a sailor, not a shipwright. i was sent to fetch your grace back to pentos. instead you brought us here and tore my saduleon to pieces for some nails and scraps of wood. i will never see her like again. i may never see my home again, nor my old wife. it was not me who refused the ships this daxos offered. i cannot fight the qartheen with fishing boats. his bitterness dismayed her, so much so that dany found herself wondering if the grizzled pentoshi could be one of her three betrayers. no, he is only an old man, far from home and sick at heart. there must be something we can do. aye, and i've told you what. these ships are made of rope and pitch and canvas, of qohorik pine and teak from sothoros, old oak from great norvos, yew and ash and spruce. wood, your grace. wood burns. the dragons— i will hear no more about my dragons. leave me. go pray to your pentoshi gods for a storm to sink our foes. no sailor prays for storms, your grace. i am tired of hearing what you will not do. go. ser barristan remained. our stores are ample for the moment, he reminded her, and your grace has planted beans and grapes and wheat. your dothraki have harried the slavers from the hills and struck the shackles from their slaves. they are planting too, and will be bringing their crops to meereen to market. and you will have the friendship of lhazar. daario won that for me, for all that it is worth. the lamb men. would that lambs had teeth. that would make the wolves more cautious, no doubt. that made her laugh. how fare your orphans, ser? the old knight smiled. well, your grace. it is good of you to ask. the boys were his pride. four or five have the makings of knights. perhaps as many as a dozen. one would be enough if he were as true as you. the day might come soon when she would have need of every knight. will they joust for me? i should like that. viserys had told her stories of the tourneys he had witnessed in the seven kingdoms, but dany had never seen a joust herself. they are not ready, your grace. when they are, they will be pleased to demonstrate their prowess. i hope that day comes quickly. she would have kissed her good knight on the cheek, but just then missandei appeared beneath the arched doorway. missandei? your grace. skahaz awaits your pleasure. send him up. the shavepate was accompanied by two of his brazen beasts. one wore a hawk mask, the other the likeness of a jackal. only their eyes could be seen behind the brass. your radiance, hizdahr was seen to enter the pyramid of zhak last evening. he did not depart until well after dark. how many pyramids has he visited? asked dany. eleven. and how long since the last murder? six-and-twenty days. the shavepate's eyes brimmed with fury. it had been his notion to have the brazen beasts follow her betrothed and take note of all his actions. so far hizdahr has made good on his promises. how? the sons of the harpy have put down their knives, but why? because the noble hizdahr asked sweetly? he is one of them, i tell you. that's why they obey him. he may well be the harpy. if there is a harpy. skahaz was convinced that somewhere in meereen the sons of the harpy had a highborn overlord, a secret general commanding an army of shadows. dany did not share his belief. the brazen beasts had taken dozens of the harpy's sons, and those who had survived their capture had yielded names when questioned sharply ... too many names, it seemed to her. it would have been pleasant to think that all the deaths were the work of a single enemy who might be caught and killed, but dany suspected that the truth was otherwise. my enemies are legion. hizdahr zo loraq is a persuasive man with many friends. and he is wealthy. perhaps he has bought this peace for us with gold, or convinced the other highborn that our marriage is in their best interests. if he is not the harpy, he knows him. i can find the truth of that easy enough. give me your leave to put hizdahr to the question, and i will bring you a confession. no, she said. i do not trust these confessions. you've brought me too many of them, all of them worthless. your radiance— no, i said. the shavepate's scowl turned his ugly face even uglier. a mistake. the great master hizdahr plays your worship for a fool. do you want a serpent in your bed? / want daario in my bed, but i sent him away for the sake of you and yours. you may continue to watch hizdahr zo loraq, but no harm is to come to him. is that understood? i am not deaf, magnificence. i will obey. skahaz drew a parchment scroll from his sleeve. your worship should have a look at this. a list of all the meereenese ships in the blockade, with their captains. great masters all. dany studied the scroll. all the ruling families of meereen were named: hazkar, merreq, quazzar, zhak, rhazdar, ghazeen, pahl, even reznak and loraq. what am i to do with a list of names? every man on that list has kin within the city. sons and brothers, wives and daughters, mothers and fathers. let my brazen beasts seize them. their lives will win you back those ships. if i send the brazen beasts into the pyramids, it will mean open war inside the city. i have to trust in hizdahr. i have to hope for peace. dany held the parchment above a candle and watched the names go up in flame, while skahaz glowered at her. afterward, ser barristan told her that her brother rhaegar would have been proud of her. dany remembered the words ser jorah had spoken at astapor: rhaegar fought valiantly, rhaegar fought nobly, rhaegar fought honorably. and rhaegar died. when she descended to the purple marble hall, she found it almost empty. are there no petitioners today? dany asked reznak mo reznak. no one who craves justice or silver for a sheep? no, your worship. the city is afraid. there is nothing to fear. but there was much and more to fear as she learned that evening. as her young hostages miklaz and kezmya were laying out a simple supper of autumn greens and ginger soup for her, irri came to tell her that galazza galare had returned, with three blue graces from the temple. grey worm is come as well, khaleesi. they beg words with you, most urgently. bring them to my hall. and summon reznak and skahaz. did the green grace say what this was about? astapor, said irri. grey worm began the tale. he came out of the morning mists, a rider on a pale horse, dying. his mare was staggering as she approached the city gates, her sides pink with blood and lather, her eyes rolling with terror. her rider called out,'she is burning, she is burning,' and fell from the saddle. this one was sent for, and gave orders that the rider be brought to the blue graces. when your servants carried him inside the gates, he cried out again,'she is burning.' under his tokar he was a skeleton, all bones and fevered flesh. one of the blue graces took up the tale from there. the unsullied brought this man to the temple, where we stripped him and bathed him in cool water. his clothes were soiled, and my sisters found half an arrow in his thigh. though he had broken off the shaft, the head remained inside him, and the wound had mortified, filling him with poisons. he died within the hour, still crying out that she was burning. 'she is burning,' daenerys repeated. who is she? astapor, your radiance, said another of the blue graces. he said it, once. he said'astapor is burning.'  it might have been his fever talking. your radiance speaks wisely, said galazza galare, but ezzara saw something else. the blue grace called ezzara folded her hands. my queen, she murmured, his fever was not brought on by the arrow. he had soiled himself, not once but many times. the stains reached to his knees, and there was dried blood amongst his excrement. his horse was bleeding, grey worm said. this thing is true, your grace, the eunuch confirmed. the pale mare was bloody from his spur. that may be so, your radiance, said ezzara, but this blood was mingled with his stool. it stained his smallclothes. he was bleeding from the bowels/' said galazza galare. we cannot be certain, said ezzara, but it may be that meereen has more to fear than the spears of the yunkai'i. we must pray/' said the green grace. the gods sent this man to us. he comes as a harbinger. he comes as a sign. a sign of what? asked dany. a sign of wroth and ruin. she did not want to believe that. he was one man. one sick man with an arrow in his leg. a horse brought him here, not a god. a pale mare. dany rose abruptly. i thank you for your counsel and for all that you did for this poor man. the green grace kissed dany's fingers before she took her leave. we shall pray for astapor. and for me. oh, pray for me, my lady. if astapor had fallen, nothing remained to prevent yunkai from turning north. she turned to ser barristan. send riders into the hills to find my bloodriders. recall brown ben and the second sons as well. and the stormcrows, your grace? daario. yes. yes. just three nights ago she had dreamed of daario lying dead beside the road, staring sightlessly into the sky as crows quarreled above his corpse. other nights she tossed in her bed, imagining that he'd betrayed her, as he had once betrayed his fellow captains in the stormcrows. he brought me their heads. what if he had taken his company back to yunkai, to sell her for a pot of gold? he would not do that. would he? the stormcrows too. send riders after them at once. the second sons were the first to return, eight days after the queen sent forth her summons. when ser barristan told her that her captain desired words with her, she thought for a moment that it was daario, and her heart leapt. but the captain that he spoke of was brown ben plumm. brown ben had a seamed and weathered face, skin the color of old teak, white hair, and wrinkles at the corners of his eyes. dany was so pleased to see his leathery brown face that she hugged him. his eyes crinkled in amusement. i heard talk your grace was going to take a husband, he said, but no one told me it was me. they laughed together as reznak sputtered, but the laughter ceased when brown ben said, we caught three astapori. your worship had best hear what they say. bring them. daenerys received them in the grandeur of her hall as tall candles burned amongst the marble pillars. when she saw that the astapori were half-starved, she sent for food at once. these three were all that remained of a dozen who had set out together from the red city: a bricklayer, a weaver, and a cobbler. what befell the rest of your party? the queen asked. slain, said the cobbler. yunkai's sellswords roam the hills north of astapor, hunting down those who flee the flames. has the city fallen, then? its walls were thick. this is so, said the bricklayer, a stoop-backed man with rheumy eyes, but they were old and crumbling as well. the weaver raised her head. every day we told each other that the dragon queen was coming back. the woman had thin lips and dull dead eyes, set in a pinched and narrow face. cleon had sent for you, it was said, and you were coming. he sent for me, thought dany. that much is true, at least. outside our walls, the yunkai'i devoured our crops and slaughtered our herds, the cobbler went on. inside we starved. we ate cats and rats and leather. a horsehide was a feast. king cutthroat and queen whore accused each other of feasting on the flesh of the slain. men and women gathered in secret to draw lots and gorge upon the flesh of him who drew the black stone. the pyramid of nakloz was despoiled and set aflame by those who claimed that kraznys mo nakloz was to blame for all our woes. others blamed daenerys, said the weaver, but more of us still loved you.'she is on her way,' we said to one another.'she is coming at the head of a great host, with food for all.'  / can scarce feed my own folk. if i had marched to astapor, i would have lost meereen. the cobbler told them how the body of the butcher king had been disinterred and clad in copper armor, after the green grace of astapor had a vision that he would deliver them from the yunkai'i. armored and stinking, the corpse of cleon the great was strapped onto the back of a starving horse to lead the remnants of his new unsullied on a sortie, but they rode right into the iron teeth of a legion from new ghis and were cut down to a man. afterward the green grace was impaled upon a stake in the plaza of punishment and left until she died. in the pyramid of ullhor, the survivors had a great feast that lasted half the night, and washed the last of their food down with poison wine so none need wake again come morning. soon after came the sickness, a bloody flux that killed three men of every four, until a mob of dying men went mad and slew the guards on the main gate. the old brickmaker broke in to say, no. that was the work of healthy men, running to escape the flux. does it matter? asked the cobbler. the guards were torn apart and the gates thrown open. the legions of new ghis came pouring into astapor, followed by the yunkai'i and the sellswords on their horses. queen whore died fighting them with a curse upon her lips. king cutthroat yielded and was thrown into a fighting pit, to be torn apart by a pack of starving dogs. even then some said that you were coming, said the weaver. they swore they had seen you mounted on a dragon, flying high above the camps of the yunkai'i. every day we looked for you. / could not come, the queen thought. / dare not. and when the city fell? demanded skahaz. what then? the butchery began. the temple of the graces was full of the sick who had come to ask the gods to heal them. the legions sealed the doors and set the temple ablaze with torches. within the hour fires were burning in every corner of the city. as they spread they joined with one another. the streets were full of mobs, running this way and that to escape the flames, but there was no way out. the yunkai'i held the gates. yet you escaped, the shavepate said. how is that? the old man answered. i am by trade a brickmaker, as my father and his father were before me. my grandfather built our house up against the city walls. it was an easy thing to work loose a few bricks every night. when i told my friends, they helped me shore up the tunnel so it would not collapse. we all agreed that it might be good to have our own way out. / left you with a council to rule over you, dany thought, a healer, a scholar, and a priest. she could still recall the red city as she had first seen it, dry and dusty behind its red brick walls, dreaming cruel dreams, yet full of life. there were islands in the worm where lovers kissed, but in the plaza of punishment they peeled the skin off men in strips and left them hanging naked for the flies. it is good that you have come, she told the astapori. you will be safe in meereen. the cobbler thanked her for that, and the old brickmaker kissed her foot, but the weaver looked at her with eyes as hard as slate. she knows i lie, the queen thought. she knows i cannot keep them safe. astaporis burning, and meereen is next. there's more coming, brown ben announced when the astapori had been led away. these three had horses. most are afoot. how many are they? asked reznak. brown ben shrugged. hundreds. thousands. some sick, some burned, some wounded. the cats and the windblown are swarming through the hills with lance and lash, driving them north and cutting down the laggards. mouths on feet. and sick, you say? reznak wrung his hands. your worship must not allow them in the city. i wouldn't, said brown ben plumm. i'm no maester, mind you, but i know you got to keep the bad apples from the good. these are not apples, ben, said dany. these are men and women, sick and hungry and afraid. my children. i should have gone to astapor. your grace could not have saved them, said ser barristan. you warned king cleon against this war with yunkai. the man was a fool, and his hands were red with blood. and are my hands any cleaner? she remembered what daario had said— that all kings must be butchers, or meat. cleon was the enemy of our enemy. if i had joined him at the horns of hazzat, we might have crushed the yunkai'i between us. the shavepate disagreed. if you had taken the unsullied south to hazzat, the sons of the harpy- i know. i know. it is eroeh all over again. brown ben plumm was puzzled. who is eroeh? a girl i thought i'd saved from rape and torment. all i did was make it worse for her in the end. and all i did in astapor was make ten thousand eroehs. your grace could not have known— i am the queen. it was my place to know. what is done is done, said reznak mo reznak. your worship, i beg you, take the noble hizdahr for your king at once. he can speak with the wise masters, make a peace for us. on what terms? beware the perfumed seneschal, quaithe had said. the masked woman had foretold the coming of the pale mare, was she right about the noble reznak too? i may be a young girl innocent of war, but i am not a lamb to walk bleating into the harpy's den. i still have my unsullied. i have the stormcrows and the second sons. i have three companies of freedmen. them, and dragons, said brown ben plumm, with a grin. in the pit, in chains, wailed reznak mo reznak. what good are dragons that cannot be controlled? even the unsullied grow fearful when they must open the doors to feed them. what, o' the queen's little pets? brown ben's eyes crinkled in amusement. the grizzled captain of the second sons was a creature of the free companies, a mongrel with the blood of a dozen different peoples flowing through his veins, but he had always been fond of the dragons, and them of him. pets? screeched reznak. monsters, rather. monsters that feed on children. we cannot— silence, said daenerys. we will not speak of that. reznak shrank away from her, flinching from the fury in her tone. forgive me, magnificence, i did not ... brown ben plumm bulled over him. your grace, the yunkish got three free companies against our two, and there's talk the yunkishmen sent to volantis to fetch back the golden company. those bastards field ten thousand. yunkai's got four ghiscari legions too, maybe more, and i heard it said they sent riders across the dothraki sea to maybe bring some big khalasar down on us. we need them dragons, the way i see it. dany sighed. i am sorry, ben. i dare not loose the dragons. she could see that was not the answer that he wanted. plumm scratched at his speckled whiskers. if there's no dragons in the balance, well ... we should leave before them yunkish bastards close the trap ... only first, make the slavers pay to see our backs. they pay the khals to leave their cities be, why not us? sell meereen back to them and start west with wagons full o' gold and gems and such. you want me to loot meereen and flee? no, i will not do that. grey worm, are my freedmen ready for battle? the eunuch crossed his arms against his chest. they are not unsul-lied, but they will not shame you. this one will swear to that by spear and sword, your worship. good. that's good. daenerys looked at the faces of the men around her. the shavepate, scowling. ser barristan, with his lined face and sad blue eyes. reznak mo reznak, pale, sweating. brown ben, white-haired, grizzled, tough as old leather. grey worm, smooth-cheeked, stolid, expressionless. daario should be here, and my bloodriders, she thought. // there is to be a battle, the blood of my blood should be with me. she missed ser jorah mormont too. he lied to me, informed on me, but he loved me too, and he always gave good counsel. i defeated the yunkai'i before. i will defeat them again. where, though? how? you mean to take the field? the shavepate's voice was thick with disbelief. that would be folly. our walls are taller and thicker than the walls of astapor, and our defenders are more valiant. the yunkai'i will not take this city easily. ser barristan disagreed. i do not think we should allow them to invest us. theirs is a patchwork host at best. these slavers are no soldiers. if we take them unawares ... small chance of that, the shavepate said. the yunkai'i have many friends inside the city. they will know. how large an army can we muster? dany asked. not large enough, begging your royal pardon, said brown ben plumm. what does naharis have to say? if we' re going to make a fight o' this, we need his stormcrows. daario is still in the field. oh, gods, what have i done? have i sent him to his death? ben, i will need your second sons to scout our enemies. where they are, how fast they are advancing, how many men they have, and how they are disposed. we'll need provisions. fresh horses too. of course. ser barristan will see to it. brown ben scratched his chin. might be we could get some o' them to come over. if your grace could spare a few bags o' gold and gems ... just to give their captains a good taste, as it were ... well, who knows? buy them, why not? dany said. that sort of thing went on all the time amongst the free companies of the disputed lands, she knew. yes, very good. reznak, see to it. once the second sons ride out, close the gates and double the watch upon the walls. it shall be done, magnificence, said reznak mo reznak. what of these astapori? my children. they are coming here for help. for succor and protection. we cannot turn our backs on them. ser barristan frowned. your grace, i have known the bloody flux to destroy whole armies when left to spread unchecked. the seneschal is right. we cannot have the astapori in meereen. dany looked at him helplessly. it was good that dragons did not cry. as you say, then. we will keep them outside the walls until this ... this curse has run its course. set up a camp for them beside the river, west of the city. we will send them what food we can. perhaps we can separate the healthy from the sick. all of them were looking at her. will you make me say it twice? go and do as i've commanded you. dany rose, brushed past brown ben, and climbed the steps to the sweet solitude of her terrace. two hundred leagues divided meereen from astapor, yet it seemed to her that the sky was darker to the southwest, smudged and hazy with the smoke of the red city's passing. brick and blood built astapor, and brick and blood its people. the old rhyme rang in her head. ash and bone is astapor, and ash and bone its people. she tried to recall eroeh's face, but the dead girl's features kept turning into smoke. when daenerys finally turned away, ser barristan stood near her, wrapped in his white cloak against the chill of evening. can we make a fight of this? she asked him. men can always fight, your grace. ask rather if we can win. dying is easy, but victory comes hard. your freedmen are half-trained and un-blooded. your sellswords once served your foes, and once a man turns his cloak he will not scruple to turn it again. you have two dragons who cannot be controlled, and a third that may be lost to you. beyond these walls your only friends are the lhazarene, who have no taste for war. my walls are strong, though. no stronger than when we sat outside them. and the sons of the harpy are inside the walls with us. so are the great masters, both those you did not kill and the sons of those you did. i know. the queen sighed. what do you counsel, ser? battle, said ser barristan. meereen is overcrowded and full of hungry mouths, and you have too many enemies within. we cannot long withstand a siege, i fear. let me meet the foe as he comes north, on ground of my own choosing. meet the foe, she echoed, with the freedmen you've called half-trained and unblooded. we were all unblooded once, your grace. the unsullied will help stiffen them. if i had five hundred knights ... or five. and if i give you the unsullied, i will have no one but the brazen beasts to hold meereen. when ser barristan did not dispute her, dany closed her eyes. gods, she prayed, you took khal drogo, who was my sun-and-stars. you took our valiant son before he drew a breath. you have had your blood of me. help me now, i pray you. give me the wisdom to see the path ahead and the strength to do what i must to keep my children safe. the gods did not respond. when she opened her eyes again, daenerys said, i cannot fight two enemies, one within and one without. if i am to hold meereen, i must have the city behind me. the whole city. i need ... i need ... she could not say it. your grace? ser barristan prompted, gently. a gueen belongs not to herself but to her people. i need hizdahr zo loraq. the stench of the camp was so appalling it was all that dany could do not to gag. ser barristan wrinkled up his nose, and said, your grace should not be here, breathing these black humors. i am the blood of the dragon, dany reminded him. have you ever seen a dragon with the flux? viserys had oft claimed thattargaryens were untroubled by the pestilences that afflicted common men, and so far as she could tell, it was true. she could remember being cold and hungry and afraid, but never sick. even so, the old knight said, i would feel better if your grace would return to the city. the many-colored brick walls of meereen were half a mile back. the bloody flux has been the bane of every army since the dawn age. let us distribute the food, your grace. on the morrow. i am here now. i want to see. she put her heels into her silver. the others trotted after her. jhogo rode before her, aggo and rakharo just behind, long dothraki whips in hand to keep away the sick and dying. ser barristan was at her right, mounted on a dapple grey. to her left was symon stripeback of the free brothers and marselen of the mother's men. three score soldiers followed close behind the captains, to protect the food wagons. mounted men all, dothraki and brazen beasts and freedmen, they were united only by their distaste for this duty. the astapori stumbled after them in a ghastly procession that grew longer with every yard they crossed. some spoke tongues she did not understand. others were beyond speaking. many lifted their hands to dany, or knelt as her silver went by. mother, they called to her, in the dialects of astapor, lys, and old volantis, in guttural dothraki and the liquid syllables of qarth, even in the common tongue of westerns. mother, please ... mother, help my sister, she is sick ... give me food for my little ones ... please, my old father ... help him ... help her ... help me ... / have no more help to give, dany thought, despairing. the astapori had no place to go. thousands remained outside meereen's thick walls— men and women and children, old men and little girls and newborn babes. many were sick, most were starved, and all were doomed to die. daenerys dare not open her gates to let them in. she had tried to do what she could for them. she had sent them healers, blue graces and spell-singers and barber-surgeons, but some of those had sickened as well, and none of their arts had slowed the galloping progression of the flux that had come on the pale mare. separating the healthy from the sick had proved impractical as well. her stalwart shields had tried, pulling husbands away from wives and children from their mothers, even as the astapori wept and kicked and pelted them with stones. a few days later, the sick were dead and the healthy ones were sick. dividing the one from the other had accomplished nothing. even feeding them had grown difficult. every day she sent them what she could, but every day there were more of them and less food to give them. it was growing harder to find drivers willing to deliver the food as well. too many of the men they had sent into the camp had been stricken by the flux themselves. others had been attacked on the way back to the city. yesterday a wagon had been overturned and two of her soldiers killed, so today the queen had determined that she would bring the food herself. every one of her advisors had argued fervently against it, from reznak and the shavepate to ser barristan, but daenerys would not be moved. i will not turn away from them, she said stubbornly. a queen must know the sufferings of her people. suffering was the only thing they did not lack. there is scarcely a horse or mule left, though many rode from astapor, marselen reported to her. they've eaten every one, your grace, along with every rat and scavenger dog that they could catch. now some have begun to eat their own dead. man must not eat the flesh of man, said aggo. it is known, agreed rahkaro. they will be cursed. they're past cursing, said symon stripeback. little children with swollen stomachs trailed after them, too weak or scared to beg. gaunt men with sunken eyes squatted amidst sand and stones, shitting out their lives in stinking streams of brown and red. many shat where they slept now, too feeble to crawl to the ditches she'd commanded them to dig. two women fought over a charred bone. nearby a boy of ten stood eating a rat. he ate one-handed, the other clutching a sharpened stick lest anyone try to wrest away his prize. unburied dead lay everywhere. dany saw one man sprawled in the dirt under a black cloak, but as she rode past his cloak dissolved into a thousand flies. skeletal women sat upon the ground clutching dying infants. their eyes followed her. those who had the strength called out. mother ... please, mother ... bless you, mother ... bless me, dany thought bitterly. your city is gone to ash and bone, your people are dying all around you. i have no shelter for you, no medicine, no hope. only stale bread and wormy meat, hard cheese, a little milk. bless me, bless me. what kind of mother has no milk to feed her children? too many dead, aggo said. they should be burned. who will burn them? asked ser barristan. the bloody flux is everywhere. a hundred die each night. it is not good to touch the dead, said jhogo. this is known, aggo and rakharo said, together. that may be so, said dany, but this thing must be done, all the same. she thought a moment. the unsullied have no fear of corpses. i shall speak to grey worm. your grace, said ser barristan, the unsullied are your best fighters. we dare not loose this plague amongst them. let the astapori bury their own dead. they are too feeble, said symon stripeback. dany said, more food might make them stronger. symon shook his head. food should not be wasted on the dying, your worship. we do not have enough to feed the living. he was not wrong, she knew, but that did not make the words any easier to hear. this is far enough, the queen decided. we'll feed them here. she raised a hand. behind her the wagons bumped to a halt, and her riders spread out around them, to keep the astapori from rushing at the food. no sooner had they stopped than the press began to thicken around them, as more and more of the afflicted came limping and shambling toward the wagons. the riders cut them off. wait your turn, they shouted. no pushing. back. stay back. bread for everyone. wait your turn. dany could only sit and watch. ser, she said to barristan selmy, is there no more we can do? you have provisions. provisions for your grace's soldiers. we may well need to withstand a long siege. the stormcrows and the second sons can harry the yunkishmen, but they cannot hope to turn them. if your grace would allow me to assemble an army ... if there must be a battle, i would sooner fight it from behind the walls of meereen. let the yunkai'i try and storm my battlements. the queen surveyed the scene around her. if we were to share our food equally... ... the astapori would eat through their portion in days, and we would have that much less for the siege. dany gazed across the camp, to the many-colored brick walls of meereen. the air was thick with flies and cries. the gods have sent this pestilence to humble me. so many dead ... i will not have them eating corpses. she beckoned aggo closer. ride to the gates and bring me grey worm and fifty of his unsullied. khaleesi. the blood of your blood obeys. aggo touched his horse with his heels and galloped off. ser barristan watched with ill-concealed apprehension. you should not linger here overlong, your grace. the astapori are being fed, as you commanded. there's no more we can do for the poor wretches. we should repair back to the city. go if you wish, ser. i will not detain you. i will not detain any of you. dany vaulted down from the horse. i cannot heal them, but i can show them that their mother cares. jhogo sucked in his breath. khaleesi, no. the bell in his braid rang softly as he dismounted. you must not get any closer. do not let them touch you! do not! dany walked right past him. there was an old man on the ground a few feet away, moaning and staring up at the grey belly of the clouds. she knelt beside him, wrinkling her nose at the smell, and pushed back his dirty grey hair to feel his brow. his flesh is on fire. i need water to bathe him. seawater will serve. marselen, will you fetch some for me? i need oil as well, for the pyre. who will help me burn the dead? by the time aggo returned with grey worm and fifty of the unsullied loping behind his horse, dany had shamed all of them into helping her. symon stripeback and his men were pulling the living from the dead and stacking up the corpses, while jhogo and rakharo and their dothraki helped those who could still walk toward the shore to bathe and wash their clothes. aggo stared at them as if they had all gone mad, but grey worm knelt beside the queen and said, this one would be of help. before midday a dozen fires were burning. columns of greasy black smoke rose up to stain a merciless blue sky. dany's riding clothes were stained and sooty as she stepped back from the pyres. worship, grey worm said, this one and his brothers beg your leave to bathe in the salt sea when our work here is done, that we might be purified according to the laws of our great goddess. the queen had not known that the eunuchs had a goddess of their own. who is this goddess? one of the gods of ghis? grey worm looked troubled. the goddess is called by many names. she is the lady of spears, the bride of battle, the mother of hosts, but her true name belongs only to these poor ones who have burned their manhoods upon her altar. we may not speak of her to others. this one begs your forgiveness. as you wish. yes, you may bathe if that is your desire. thank you for your help. these ones live to serve you. when daenerys returned to her pyramid, sore of limb and sick of heart, she found missandei reading some old scroll whilst irri and jhiqui argued about rakharo. you are too skinny for him, jhiqui was saying. you are almost a boy. rakharo does not bed with boys. this is known. irri bristled back. it is known that you are almost a cow. rakharo does not bed with cows. rakharo is blood of my blood. his life belongs to me, not you, dany told the two of them. rakharo had grown almost half a foot during his time away from meereen and returned with arms and legs thick with muscle and four bells in his hair. he towered over aggo and jhogo now, as her handmaids had both noticed. now be quiet. i need to bathe. she had never felt more soiled. jhiqui, help me from these clothes, then take them away and burn them. irri, tell qezza to find me something light and cool to wear. the day was very hot. a cool wind was blowing on her terrace. dany sighed with pleasure as she slipped into the waters of her pool. at her command, missandei stripped off her clothes and climbed in after her. this one heard the astapori scratching at the walls last night, the little scribe said as she was washing dany's back. irri and jhiqui exchanged a look. no one was scratching, said jhiqui. scratching ... how could they scratch? with their hands/' said missandei. the bricks are old and crumbling. they are trying to claw their way into the city. this would take them many years, said irri. the walls are very thick. this is known. it is known, agreed jhiqui. i dream of them as well. dany took missandei's hand. the camp is a good half-mile from the city, my sweetling. no one was scratching at the walls. your grace knows best, said missandei. shall i wash your hair? it is almost time. reznak mo reznak and the green grace are coming to discuss— —the wedding preparations. dany sat up with a splash. i had almost forgotten. perhaps i wanted to forget. and after them, i am to dine with hizdahr. she sighed. irri, bring the green tokar, the silk one fringed with myrish lace. that one is being repaired, khaleesi. the lace was torn. the blue tokar has been cleaned. blue, then. they will be just as pleased. she was only half-wrong. the priestess and the seneschal were happy to see her garbed in a tokar, a proper meereenese lady for once, but what they really wanted was to strip her bare. daenerys heard them out, incredulous. when they were done, she said, i have no wish to give offense, but i will not present myself naked to hizdahr's mother and sisters. but, said reznak mo reznak, blinking, but you must, your worship. before a marriage it is traditional for the women of the man's house to examine the bride's womb and, ah ... her female parts. to ascertain that they are well formed and, ah ... ... fertile, finished galazza galare. an ancient ritual, your radiance. three graces shall be present to witness the examination and say the proper prayers. yes, said reznak, and afterward there is a special cake. a women's cake, baked only for betrothals. men are not allowed to taste it. i am told it is delicious. magical. and if my womb is withered and my female parts accursed, is there a special cake for that as well? hizdahr zo loraq may inspect my women's parts after we are wed. khal drogo found no fault with them, why should he? let his mother and his sisters examine one another and share the special cake. i shall not be eating it. nor shall i wash the noble hizdahr's noble feet. magnificence, you do not understand, protested reznak. the washing of the feet is hallowed by tradition. it signifies that you shall be your husband's handmaid. the wedding garb is fraught with meaning too. the bride is dressed in dark red veils above a tokar of white silk, fringed with baby pearls. the gueen of the rabbits must not be wed without her floppy ears. all those pearls will make me rattle when i walk. the pearls symbolize fertility. the more pearls your worship wears, the more healthy children she will bear. why would i want a hundred children? dany turned to the green grace. if we should wed by westerosi rites ... the gods of ghis would deem it no true union. galazza galare's face was hidden behind a veil of green silk. only her eyes showed, green and wise and sad. in the eyes of the city you would be the noble hizdahr's concubine, not his lawful wedded wife. your children would be bastards. your worship must marry hizdahr in the temple of the graces, with all the nobility of meereen on hand to bear witness to your union. get the heads of all the noble houses out of their pyramids on some pretext, daario had said. the dragon's words are fire and blood. dany pushed the thought aside. it was not worthy of her. as you wish, she sighed. i shall marry hizdahr in the temple of the graces wrapped in a white tokar fringed with baby pearls. is there anything else? one more small matter, your worship, said reznak. to celebrate your nuptials, it would be most fitting if you would allow the fighting pits to open once again. it would be your wedding gift to hizdahr and to your loving people, a sign that you had embraced the ancient ways and customs of meereen. and most pleasing to the gods as well, the green grace added in her soft and kindly voice. a bride price paid in blood. daenerys was weary of fighting this battle. even ser barristan did not think she could win. no ruler can make a people good, selmy had told her. baelor the blessed prayed and fasted and built the seven as splendid a temple as any gods could wish for, yet he could not put an end to war and want. a queen must listen to her people, dany reminded herself. after the wedding hizdahr will be king. let him reopen the fighting pits if he wishes. i want no part of it. let the blood be on his hands, not mine. she rose. if my husband wishes me to wash his feet, he must first wash mine. i will tell him so this evening. she wondered how her betrothed would take that. she need not have been concerned. hizdahr zo loraq arrived an hour after the sun had set. his own tokar was burgundy, with a golden stripe and a fringe of golden beads. dany told him of her meeting with reznak and the green grace as she was pouring wine for him. these rituals are empty, hizdahr declared, just the sort of thing we must sweep aside. meereen has been steeped in these foolish old traditions for too long. he kissed her hand and said, daenerys, my queen, i will gladly wash you from head to heel if that is what i must do to be your king and consort. to be my king and consort, you need only bring me peace. skahaz tells me you have had messages of late. i have. hizdahr crossed his long legs. he looked pleased with himself. yunkai will give us peace, but for a price. the disruption of the slave trade has caused great injury throughout the civilized world. yunkai and her allies will require an indemnity of us, to be paid in gold and gem-stones. gold and gems were easy. what else? the yunkai'i will resume slaving, as before. astapor will be rebuilt, as a slave city. you will not interfere. the yunkai'i resumed their slaving before i was two leagues from their city. did i turn back? king cleon begged me to join with him against them, and i turned a deaf ear to his pleas. / want no war with yunkai. how many times must i say it? what promises do they require? ah, there is the thorn in the bower, my queen, said hizdahr zo loraq. sad to say, yunkai has no faith in your promises. they keep plucking the same string on the harp, about some envoy that your dragons set on fire. only his tokar was burned, said dany scornfully. be that as it may, they do not trust you. the men of new ghis feel the same. words are wind, as you yourself have so oft said. no words of yours will secure this peace for meereen. your foes require deeds. they would see us wed, and they would see me crowned as king, to rule beside you. dany filled his wine cup again, wanting nothing so much as to pour the flagon over his head and drown his complacent smile. marriage or carnage. a wedding or a war. are those my choices? i see only one choice, your radiance. let us say our vows before the gods of ghis and make a new meereen together. the queen was framing her response when she heard a step behind her. the food, she thought. her cooks had promised her to serve the noble hizdahr's favorite meal, dog in honey, stuffed with prunes and peppers. but when she turned to look, it was ser barristan standing there, freshly bathed and clad in white, his longsword at his side. your grace, he said, bowing, i am sorry to disturb you, but i thought that you would want to know at once. the stormcrows have returned to the city, with word of the foe. the yunkishmen are on the march, just as we had feared. a flicker of annoyance crossed the noble face of hizdahr zo loraq. the queen is at her supper. these sellswords can wait. ser barristan ignored him. i asked lord daario to make his report to me, as your grace had commanded. he laughed and said that he would write it out in his own blood if your grace would send your little scribe to show him how to make the letters. blood? said dany, horrified. is that a jape? no. no, don't tell me, i must see him for myself. she was a young girl, and alone, and young girls can change their minds. convene my captains and commanders. hizdahr, i know you will forgive me. meereen must come first. hizdahr smiled genially. we will have other nights. a thousand nights. ser barristan will show you out. dany hurried off, calling for her handmaids. she would not welcome her captain home in a tokar. in the end she tried a dozen gowns before she found one she liked, but she refused the crown that jhiqui offered her. as daario naharis took a knee before her, dany's heart gave a lurch. his hair was matted with dried blood, and on his temple a deep cut glistened red and raw. his right sleeve was bloody almost to the elbow. you're hurt, she gasped. this? daario touched his temple. a crossbowman tried to put a quarrel through my eye, but i outrode it. i was hurrying home to my queen, to bask in the warmth of her smile. he shook his sleeve, spattering red droplets. this blood is not mine. one of my serjeants said we should go over to the yunkai'i, so i reached down his throat and pulled his heart out. i meant to bring it to you as a gift for my silver queen, but four of the cats cut me off and came snarling and spitting after me. one almost caught me, so i threw the heart into his face. very gallant, said ser barristan, in a tone that suggested it was anything but, but do you have tidings for her grace? hard tidings, ser grandfather. astapor is gone, and the slavers are coming north in strength. this is old news, and stale, growled the shavepate. your mother said the same of your father's kisses, daario replied. sweet queen, i would have been here sooner, but the hills are aswarm with yunkish sellswords. four free companies. your stormcrows had to cut their way through all of them. there is more, and worse. the yunkai'i are marching their host up the coast road, joined by four legions out of new ghis. they have elephants, a hundred, armored and towered. tolosi slingers too, and a corps of qartheen camelry. two more ghiscari legions took ship at astapor. if our captives told it true, they will be landed beyond theskahazadhan to cut us off from the dothraki sea. as he told his tale, from time to time a drop of bright red blood would patter against the marble floor, and dany would wince. how many men were killed? she asked when he was done. of ours? i did not stop to count. we gained more than we lost, though. moreturncloaks? more brave men drawn to your noble cause. my queen will like them. one is an axeman from the basilisk isles, a brute, bigger than belwas. you should see him. some westerosi too, a score or more. deserters from the windblown, unhappy with the yunkai'i. they'll make good stormcrows. if you say. dany would not quibble. meereen might soon have need of every sword. ser barristan frowned at daario. captain, you made mention of four free companies. we know of only three. the windblown, the long lances, and the company of the cat. ser grandfather knows how to count. the second sons have gone over to the yunkai'i. daario turned his head and spat. that's for brown ben plumm. when next i see his ugly face i will open him from throat to groin and rip out his black heart. dany tried to speak and found no words. she remembered ben's face the last time she had seen it. it was a warm face, a face i trusted. dark skin and white hair, the broken nose, the wrinkles at the corners of his eyes. even the dragons had been fond of old brown ben, who liked to boast that he had a drop of dragon blood himself. three treasons will you know. once for gold and once for blood and once for love. was plumm the third treason, or the second? and what did that make ser jorah, her gruff old bear? would she never have a friend that she could trust? what good are prophecies if you cannot make sense of them ? if i marry hizdahr before the sun comes up, will all these armies melt away like morning dew and let me rule in peace? daario's announcement had sparked an uproar. reznak was wailing, the shavepate was muttering darkly, her bloodriders were swearing vengeance. strong belwas thumped his scarred belly with his fist and swore to eat brown ben's heart with plums and onions. please, dany said, but only missandei seemed to hear. the queen got to her feet. be guiet! i have heard enough. your grace. ser barristan went to one knee. we are yours to command. what would you have us do? continue as we planned. gather food, as much as you can. if i lookback i am lost. we must close the gates and put every fighting man upon the walls. no one enters, no one leaves. the hall was quiet for a moment. the men looked at one another. then reznak said, what of the astapori? she wanted to scream, to gnash her teeth and tear her clothes and beat upon the floor. instead she said, close the gates. will you make me say it thrice? they were her children, but she could not help them now. leave me. daario, remain. that cut should be washed, and i have more questions for you. the others bowed and went. dany took daario naharis up the steps to her bedchamber, where irri washed his cut with vinegar and jhiqui wrapped it in white linen. when that was done she sent her handmaids off as well. your clothes are stained with blood, she told daario. take them off. only if you do the same. he kissed her. his hair smelled of blood and smoke and horse, and his mouth was hard and hot on hers. dany trembled in his arms. when they broke apart, she said, i thought you would be the one to betray me. once for blood and once for gold and once for love, the warlocks said. i thought ... i never thought brown ben. even my dragons seemed to trust him. she clutched her captain by the shoulders. promise me that you will never turn against me. i could not bear that. promise me. never, my love. she believed him. i swore that i should wed hizdahr zo loraq if he gave me ninety days of peace, but now ... i wanted you from the first time that i saw you, but you were a sellsword, fickle, treacherous. you boasted that you'd had a hundred women. a hundred? daario chuckled through his purple beard. i lied, sweet queen. it was a thousand. but never once a dragon. she raised her lips to his. what are you waiting for? the candle was almost gone. less than an inch remained, jutting from a pool of warm melted wax to cast its light over the queen's bed. the flame had begun to gutter. it will go out before much longer, dany realized, and when it does another night will be at its end. dawn always came too soon. she had not slept, could not sleep, would not sleep. she had not even dared to close her eyes, for fear it would be morning when she opened them again. if only she had the power, she would have made their nights go on forever, but the best that she could do was stay awake to try and savor every last sweet moment before daybreak turned them into no more than fading memories. beside her, daario naharis was sleeping as peacefully as a newborn babe. he had a gift for sleeping, he'd boasted, smiling in that cocksure way of his. in the field, he would sleep in the saddle oft as not, he claimed, so as to be well rested should he come upon a battle. sun or storm, it made no matter. a warrior who cannot sleep soon has no strength to fight, he said. he was never vexed by nightmares either. when dany told him howserwyn of the mirror shield was haunted by the ghosts of all the knights he'd killed, daario only laughed. if the ones i killed come bother me, i will kill them all again. he has a sellsword's conscience, she realized then. that is to say, none at all. daario lay upon his stomach, the light linen coverlets tangled about his long legs, his face half-buried in the pillows. dany ran her hand down his back, tracing the line of his spine. his skin was smooth beneath her touch, almost hairless. his skin is silk and satin. she loved the feel of him beneath her fingers. she loved to run her fingers through his hair, to knead the ache from his calves after a long day in the saddle, to cup his cock and feel it harden against her palm. if she had been some ordinary woman, she would gladly have spent her whole life touching daario, tracing his scars and making him tell her how he'd come by every one. / would give up my crown if he asked it of me, dany thought ... but he had not asked it, and never would. daario might whisper words of love when the two of them were as one, but she knew it was the dragon queen he loved. /// gave up my crown, he would not want me. besides, kings who lost their crowns oft lost their heads as well, and she could see no reason why it would be any different for a queen. the candle flickered one last time and died, drowned in its own wax. darkness swallowed the feather bed and its two occupants, and filled every corner of the chamber. dany wrapped her arms around her captain and pressed herself against his back. she drank in the scent of him, savoring the warmth of his flesh, the feel of his skin against her own. remember, she told herself. remember how he felt. she kissed him on his shoulder. daario rolled toward her, his eyes open. daenerys. he smiled a lazy smile. that was another of his talents; he woke all at once, like a cat. is it dawn? not yet. we have a while still. liar. i can see your eyes. could i do that if it were the black of night? daario kicked loose of the coverlets and sat up. the half-light. day will be here soon. i do not want this night to end. no? and why is that, my queen? you know. the wedding? he laughed. marry me instead. you know i cannot do that. you are a queen. you can do what you like. he slid a hand along her leg. how many nights remain to us? two. only two. you know as well as i. this night and the next, and we must end this. marry me, and we can have all the nights forever. /// could, i would. khal drogo had been her sun-and-stars, but he had been dead so long that daenerys had almost forgotten how it felt to love and be loved. daario had helped her to remember. / was dead and he brought me back to life. i was asleep and he woke me. my brave captain. even so, of late he grew too bold. on the day that he returned from his latest sortie, he had tossed the head of a yunkish lord at her feet and kissed her in the hall for all the world to see, until barristan selmy pulled the two of them apart. ser grandfather had been so wroth that dany feared blood might be shed. we cannot wed, my love. you know why. he climbed from her bed. marry hizdahr, then. i will give him a nice set of horns for his wedding gift. ghiscari men like to prance about in horns. they make them from their own hair, with combs and wax and irons. daario found his breeches and pulled them on. he did not trouble himself with smallclothes. once i am wed it will be high treason to desire me. dany pulled the coverlet up over her breasts. then i must be a traitor. he slipped a blue silk tunic over his head and straightened the prongs of his beard with his fingers. he had dyed it afresh for her, taking it from purple back to blue, as it had been when first she met him. i smell of you, he said, sniffing at his fingers and grinning. dany loved the way his gold tooth gleamed when he grinned. she loved the fine hairs on his chest. she loved the strength in his arms, the sound of his laughter, the way he would always look into her eyes and say her name as he slid his cock inside her. you are beautiful, she blurted as she watched him don his riding boots and lace them up. some days he let her do that for him, but not today, it seemed. that's done with too. not beautiful enough to marry. daario took his sword belt off the peg where he had hung it. where are you going? out into your city, he said, to drink a keg or two and pick a quarrel. it has been too long since i've killed a man. might be i should seek out your betrothed. dany threw a pillow at him. you will leave hizdahr be! as my queen commands. will you hold court today? no. on the morrow i will be a woman wed, and hizdahr will be king. let him hold court. these are his people. some are his, some are yours. the ones you freed. are you chiding me? the ones you call your children. they want their mother. you are. you are chicling me. only a little, bright heart. will you come hold court? after my wedding, perhaps. after the peace. this after that you speak of never comes. you should hold court. my new men do not believe that you are real. the ones who came over from the windblown. bred and born in westerns, most of them, full of tales about targaryens. they want to see one with their own eyes. the frog has a gift for you. the frog? she said, giggling. and who is he? he shrugged. some dornish boy. he squires for the big knight they call greenguts. i told him he could give his gift to me and i'd deliver it, but he wouldn't have it. oh, a clever frog.'give the gift to me.' she threw the other pillow at him. would i have ever seen it? daario stroked his gilded mustachio. would i steal from my sweet queen? if it were a gift worthy of you, i would have put it into your soft hands myself. as a token of your love? as to that i will not say, but i told him that he could give it to you. you would not make a liar of daario naharis? dany was helpless to refuse. as you wish. bring your frog to court tomorrow. the others too. the westerosi. it would be nice to hear the common tongue from someone besides ser barristan. as my queen commands. daario bowed deeply, grinned, and took his leave, his cloak swirling behind him. dany sat amongst the rumpled bedclothes with her arms about her knees, so forlorn that she did not hear when missandei came creeping in with bread and milk and figs. your grace? are you unwell? in the black of night this one heard you scream. dany took a fig. it was black and plump, still moist with dew. will hizdahr ever make me scream? it was the wind that you heard screaming. she took a bite, but the fruit had lost its savor now that daario was gone. sighing, she rose and called to irri for a robe, then wandered out onto her terrace. her foes were all about her. there were never less than a dozen ships drawn up on the shore. some days there were as many as a hundred, when the soldiers were disembarking. the yunkai'i were even bringing in wood by sea. behind their ditches, they were building catapults, scorpions, tall trebuchets. on still nights she could hear the hammers ringing through the warm, dry air. no siege towers, though. no battering rams. they would not try to take meereen by storm. they would wait behind their siege lines, flinging stones at her until famine and disease had brought her people to their knees. hizdahr will bring me peace. he must. that night her cooks roasted her a kid with dates and carrots, but dany could only eat a bite of it. the prospect of wrestling with meereen once more left her feeling weary. sleep came hard, even when daario came back, so drunk that he could hardly stand. beneath her coverlets she tossed and turned, dreaming that hizdahr was kissing her ... but his lips were blue and bruised, and when he thrust himself inside her, his manhood was cold as ice. she sat up with her hair disheveled and the bed-clothes atangle. her captain slept beside her, yet she was alone. she wanted to shake him, wake him, make him hold her, fuck her, help her forget, but she knew that if she did, he would only smile and yawn and say, it was just a dream, my queen. go back to sleep. instead she slipped into a hooded robe and stepped out onto her terrace. she went to the parapet and stood there gazing down upon the city as she had done a hundred times before. it will never be my city. it will never be my home. the pale pink light of dawn found her still out on her terrace, asleep upon the grass beneath a blanket of fine dew. i promised daario that i would hold court today, daenerys told her handmaids when they woke her. help me find my crown. oh, and some clothes to wear, something light and cool. she made her descent an hour later. all kneel for daenerys stormborn, the unburnt, queen of meereen, queen of the andals and the rhoynar and the first men, khaleesi of great grass sea, breaker of shackles and mother of dragons, missandei called. reznak mo reznak bowed and beamed. magnificence, every day you grow more beautiful. i think the prospect of your wedding has given you a glow. oh, my shining queen ! dany sighed. summon the first petitioner. it had been so long since she last held court that the crush of cases was almost overwhelming. the back of the hall was a solid press of people, and scuffles broke out over precedence. inevitably it was galazza galare who stepped forward, her head held high, her face hidden behind a shimmering green veil. your radiance, it might be best were we to speak in private. would that i had the time, said dany sweetly. i am to be wed upon the morrow. her last meeting with the green grace had not gone well. what would you have of me? i would speak to you about the presumption of a certain sellsword captain. she dares say that in open court? dany felt a blaze of anger. she has courage, i grant that, but if she thinks i am about to suffer another scolding, she could not be more wrong. the treachery of brown ben plumm has shocked us all, she said, but your warning comes too late. and now i know you will want to return to your temple to pray for peace. the green grace bowed. i shall pray for you as well. another slap, thought dany, color rising to her face. the rest was a tedium the queen knew well. she sat upon her cushions, listening, one foot jiggling with impatience. jhiqui brought a platter of figs and ham at midday. there seemed to be no end to the petitioners. for every two she sent off smiling, one left red-eyed or muttering. it was close to sunset before daario naharis appeared with his new stormcrows, the westerosi who had come over to him from the wind-blown. dany found herself glancing at them as yet another petitioner droned on and on. these are my people. i am their rightful queen. they seemed a scruffy bunch, but that was only to be expected of sellswords. the youngest could not have been more than a year older than her; the oldest must have seen sixty namedays. a few sported signs of wealth: gold arm rings, silken tunics, silver-studded sword belts. plunder. for the most part, their clothes were plainly made and showed signs of hard wear. when daario brought them forward, she saw that one of them was a woman, big and blond and all in mail. pretty meris, her captain named her, though pretty was the last thing dany would have called her. she was six feet tall and earless, with a slit nose, deep scars in both cheeks, and the coldest eyes the queen had ever seen. as for the rest ... hugh hungerford was slim and saturnine, long-legged, long-faced, clad in faded finery. webber was short and muscular, with spiders tattooed across his head and chest and arms. red-faced orson stone claimed to be a knight, as did lanky lucifer long. will of the woods leered at her even as he took a knee. dick straw had cornflower-blue eyes, hair as white as flax, and an unsettling smile. ginger jack's face was hidden behind a bristly orange beard, and his speech was unintelligible. he bit off half his tongue in his first battle, hungerford explained to her. the dornishmen seemed different. if it please your grace, said daario, these three are greenguts, gerrold, and frog. greenguts was huge and bald as a stone, with arms thick enough to rival even strong belwas. gerrold was a lean, tall youth with sun streaks in his hair and laughing blue-green eyes. that smile has won many a maiden's heart, i'll wager. his cloak was made of soft brown wool lined with sandsilk, a goodly garment. frog, the squire, was the youngest of the three, and the least impressive, a solemn, stocky lad, brown of hair and eye. his face was squarish, with a high forehead, heavy jaw, and broad nose. the stubble on his cheeks and chin made him look like a boy trying to grow his first beard. dany had no inkling why anyone would call him frog. perhaps he can jump farther than the others. you may rise, she said. daario tells me you come to us from dome. dornishmen will always have a welcome at my court. sunspear stayed loyal to my father when the usurper stole his throne. you must have faced many perils to reach me. too many, said gerrold, the handsome one with the sun-streaked hair. we were six when we left dome, your grace. i am sorry for your losses. the queen turned to his large companion. greenguts is a queer sort of name. a jape, your grace. from the ships. i was greensick the whole way from volantis. heaving and ... well, i shouldn't say. dany giggled. i think that i can guess, ser. it is ser, is it not? daario tells me that you are a knight. if it please your grace, we are all three knights. dany glanced at daario and saw anger flash across his face. he did not know. i have need of knights, she said. ser barristan's suspicions had awakened. knighthood is easily claimed this far from westerns. are you prepared to defend that boast with sword or lance? if need be, said gerrold, though i will not claim that any of us is the equal of barristan the bold. your grace, i beg your pardon, but we have come before you under false names. i knew someone else who did that once, said dany, a man called arstan whitebeard. tell me your true names, then. gladly ... but if we may beg the queen's indulgence, is there some place with fewer eyes and ears? games within games. as you wish. skahaz, clear my court. the shavepate roared out orders. his brazen beasts did the rest, herding the other westerosi and the rest of the day's petitioners from the hall. her counselors remained. now, dany said, your names. handsome young gerrold bowed. ser gerris drinkwater, your grace. my sword is yours. greenguts crossed his arms against his chest. and my warhammer. i'm ser archibald yronwood. and you, ser? the queen asked the boy called frog. if it please your grace, may i first present my gift? if you wish, daenerys said, curious, but as frog started forward daario naharis stepped in front of him and held out a gloved hand. give this gift to me. stone-faced, the stocky lad bent, unlaced his boot, and drew a yellowed parchment from a hidden flap within. this is your gift? a scrap of writing? daario snatched the parchment out of the dornishman's hands and unrolled it, squinting at the seals and signatures. very pretty, all the gold and ribbons, but i do not read your westerosi scratchings. bring it to the queen, ser barristan commanded. now. dany could feel the anger in the hall. i am only a young girl, and young girls must have their gifts, she said lightly. daario, please, you must not tease me. give it here. the parchment was written in the common tongue. the queen unrolled it slowly, studying the seals and signatures. when she saw the name ser willem darry, her heart beat a little faster. she read it over once, and then again. may we know what it says, your grace? asked ser barristan. it is a secret pact, dany said, made in braavos when i was just a little girl. ser willem darry signed for us, the man who spirited my brother and myself away from dragonstone before the usurper's men could take us. prince oberyn martell signed for dome, with the sealord of braavos as witness. she handed the parchment to ser barristan, so he might read it for himself. the alliance is to be sealed by a marriage, it says. in return for dome's help overthrowing the usurper, my brother viserys is to take prince doran's daughter arianne for his queen. the old knight read the pact slowly. if robert had known of this, he would have smashed sunspear as he once smashed pyke, and claimed the heads of prince doran and the red viper ... and like as not, the head of this dornish princess too. no doubt that was why prince doran chose to keep the pact a secret, suggested daenerys. if my brother viserys had known that he had a dornish princess waiting for him, he would have crossed to sunspear as soon as he was old enough to wed. and thereby brought robert's warhammer down upon himself, and dome as well, said frog. my father was content to wait for the day that prince viserys found his army. your father? prince doran. he sank back onto one knee. your grace, i have the honor to be quentyn martell, a prince of dome and your most leal subject. dany laughed. the dornish prince flushed red, whilst her own court and counselors gave her puzzled looks. radiance? said skahaz shavepate, in the ghiscari tongue. why do you laugh? they call him frog, she said, and we have just learned why. in the seven kingdoms there are children's tales of frogs who turn into enchanted princes when kissed by their true love. smiling at the dornish knights, she switched back to the common tongue. tell me, prince quentyn, are you enchanted? no, your grace. i feared as much. neither enchanted nor enchanting, alas. a pity he's the prince, and not the one with the wide shoulders and the sandy hair. you have come for a kiss, however. you mean to marry me. is that the way of it? the gift you bring me is your own sweet self. instead of viserys and your sister, you and i must seal this pact if i want dome. my father hoped that you might find me acceptable. daario naharis gave a scornful laugh. i say you are a pup. the queen needs a man beside her, not a mewling boy. you are no fit husband for a woman such as her. when you lick your lips, do you still taste your mother's milk? ser gerris drinkwater darkened at his words. mind your tongue, sellsword. you are speaking to a prince of dome. and to his wet nurse, i am thinking. daario brushed his thumbs across his sword hilts and smiled dangerously. skahaz scowled, as only he could scowl. this boy might serve for dome, but meereen needs a king of ghiscari blood. i know of this dome, said reznakmo reznak. dome is sand and scorpions, and bleak red mountains baking in the sun. prince quentyn answered him. dome is fifty thousand spears and swords, pledged to our queen's service. fifty thousand? mocked daario. i count three. enough, daenerys said. prince quentyn has crossed half the world to offer me his gift, i will not have him treated with discourtesy. she turned to the dornishmen. would that you had come a year ago. i am pledged to wed the noble hizdahr zo loraq. ser gerris said, it is not too late— i will be the judge of that, daenerys said. reznak, see that the prince and his companions are given quarters suitable to their high birth, and that their wants are attended to. as you wish, your radiance. the queen rose. then we are done for now. daario and ser barristan followed her up the steps to her apartments. this changes everything, the old knight said. this changes nothing, dany said, as irri removed her crown. what good are three men? three knights, said selmy. three liars, daario said darkly. they deceived me. and bought you too, i do not doubt. he did not trouble to deny it. dany unrolled the parchment and examined it again. braavos. this was done in braavos, while we were living in the house with the red door. why did that make her feel so strange? she found herself remembering her nightmare. sometimes there is truth in dreams. could hizdahr zo loraq be working for the warlocks, was that what the dream had meant? could the dream have been a sending? were the gods telling her to put hizdahr aside and wed this dornish prince instead? something tickled at her memory. ser barristan, what are the arms of house martell? a sun in splendor, transfixed by a spear. the sun's son. a shiver went through her. shadows and whispers. what else had quaithe said? the pale mare and the sun's son. there was a lion in it too, and a dragon. or am i the dragon? beware the perfumed seneschal. that she remembered. dreams and prophecies. why must they always be in riddles? i hate this. oh, leave me, ser. tomorrow is my wedding day. that night daario had her every way a man can have a woman, and she gave herself to him willingly. the last time, as the sun was coming up, she used her mouth to make him hard again, as doreah had taught her long ago, then rode him so wildly that his wound began to bleed again, and for one sweet heartbeat she could not tell whether he was inside of her, or her inside of him. but when the sun rose upon her wedding day so did daario naharis, donning his clothes and buckling on his sword belt with its gleaming golden wantons. where are you going? dany asked him. i forbid you to make a sortie today. my queen is cruel, her captain said. if i cannot slay your foes, how shall i amuse myself whilst you are being wed? by nightfall i shall have no foes. it is only dawn, sweet queen. the day is long. time enough for one last sortie. i will bring you back the head of brown ben plumm for a wedding gift. no heads, dany insisted. once you brought me flowers. let hizdahr bring you flowers. he is not one to stoop and pluck a dandelion, true, but he has servants who will be pleased to do it for him. do i have your leave to go? no. she wanted him to stay and hold her. one day he will go and not return, she thought. one day some archer will put an arrow through his chest, or ten men will fall on him with spears and swords and axes, ten would-be heroes. five of them would die, but that would not make her grief easier to bear. one day i will lose him, as i lost my sun-and-stars. but please gods, not today. come back to bed and kiss me. no one had ever kissed her like daario naharis. i am your queen, and i command you to fuck me. she had meant it playfully, but daario's eyes hardened at her words. fucking queens is king's work. your noble hizdahr can attend to that, once you're wed. and if he proves to be too highborn for such sweaty work, he has servants who will be pleased to do that for him as well. or perhaps you can call the dornish boy into your bed, and his pretty friend as well, why not? he strode from the bedchamber. he is going to make a sortie, dany realized, and if he takes ben plumm's head, he'll walk into the wedding feast and throw it at my feet. seven save me. why couldn't he be better born ? when he was gone, missandei brought the queen a simple meal of goat cheese and olives, with raisins for a sweet. your grace needs more than wine to break her fast. you are such a tiny thing, and you will surely need your strength today. that made daenerys laugh, coming from a girl so small. she relied so much on the little scribe that she oft forgot that missandei had only turned eleven. they shared the food together on her terrace. as dany nibbled on an olive, the naathi girl gazed at her with eyes like molten gold and said, it is not too late to tell them that you have decided not to wed. it is, though, the queen thought, sadly. hizdahr's blood is ancient and noble. our joining will join my freedmen to his people. when we become as one, so will our city. your grace does not love the noble hizdahr. this one thinks you would sooner have another for your husband. / must not think ofdaario today. a queen loves where she must, not where she will. her appetite had left her. take this food away, she told missandei. it is time i bathed. afterward, as jhiqui was patting daenerys dry, irri approached with her tokar. dany envied the dothraki maids their loose sandsilk trousers and painted vests. they would be much cooler than her in her tokar, with its heavy fringe of baby pearls. help me wind this round myself, please. i cannot manage all these pearls by myself. she should be eager with anticipation for her wedding and the night that would follow, she knew. she remembered the night of her first wedding, when khal drogo had claimed her maidenhead beneath the stranger stars. she remembered how frightened she had been, and how excited. would it be the same with hizdahr? no. i am not the girl i was, and he is not my sun-and-stars. missandei reemerged from inside the pyramid. reznak and skahaz beg the honor of escorting your grace to the temple of the graces. reznak has ordered your palanquin made ready. meereenese seldom rode within their city walls. they preferred palanquins, litters, and sedan chairs, borne upon the shoulders of their slaves. horses befoul the streets, one man ofzakh had told her, slaves do not. dany had freed the slaves, yet palanquins, litters, and sedan chairs still choked the streets as before, and none of them floated magically through the air. the day is too hot to be shut up in a palanquin, said dany. have my silver saddled. i would not go to my lord husband upon the backs of bearers. your grace, said missandei, this one is so sorry, but you cannot ride in a tokar. the little scribe was right, as she so often was. the tokar was not a garment meant for horseback. dany made a face. as you say. not the palanquin, though. i would suffocate behind those drapes. have them ready a sedan chair. if she must wear her floppy ears, let all the rabbits see her. when dany made her descent, reznak and skahaz dropped to their knees. your worship shines so brightly, you will blind every man who dares to look upon you, said reznak. the seneschal wore a tokar of maroon samite with golden fringes. hizdahr zo loraq is most fortunate in you ... and you in him, if i may be so bold as to say. this match will save our city, you will see. so we pray. i want to plant my olive trees and see them fruit. does it matter that hizdahr's kisses do not please me? peace will please me. am i a queen or just a woman? the crowds will be thick as flies today. the shavepate was clad in a pleated black skirt and a muscled breastplate, with a brazen helm shaped like a serpent's head beneath one arm. should i be afraid of flies? your brazen beasts will keep me safe from any harm. it was always dusk inside the base of the great pyramid. walls thirty feet thick muffled the tumult of the streets and kept the heat outside, so it was cool and dim within. her escort was forming up inside the gates. horses, mules, and donkeys were stabled in the western walls, elephants in the eastern. dany had acquired three of those huge, queer beasts with her pyramid. they reminded her of hairless grey mammoths, though their tusks had been bobbed and gilded, and their eyes were sad. she found strong belwas eating grapes, as barristan selmy watched a stableboy cinch the girth on his dapple grey. the three dornishmen were with him, talking, but they broke off when the queen appeared. their prince went to one knee. your grace, i must entreat you. my father's strength is failing, but his devotion to your cause is as strong as ever. if my manner or my person have displeased you, that is my sorrow, but— if you would please me, ser, be happy for me, daenerys said. this is my wedding day. they will be dancing in the yellow city, i do not doubt. she sighed. rise, my prince, and smile. one day i shall return to west-eros to claim my father's throne, and look to dome for help. but on this day the yunkai'i have my city ringed in steel. i may die before i see my seven kingdoms. hizdahr may die. westerns may be swallowed by the waves. dany kissed his cheek. come. it's time i wed. ser barristan helped her up onto her sedan chair. quentyn rejoined his fellow dornishmen. strong belwas bellowed for the gates to be opened, and daenerys targaryen was carried forth into the sun. selmy fell in beside her on his dapple grey. tell me, dany said, as the procession turned toward the temple of the graces, if my father and my mother had been free to follow their own hearts, whom would they have wed? it was long ago. your grace would not know them. you know, though. tell me. the old knight inclined his head. the queen your mother was always mindful of her duty. he was handsome in his gold-and-silver armor, his white cloak streaming from his shoulders, but he sounded like a man in pain, as if every word were a stone he had to pass. as a girl, though ... she was once smitten with a young knight from the stormlands who wore her favor at a tourney and named her queen of love and beauty. a brief thing. what happened to this knight? he put away his lance the day your lady mother wed your father. afterward he became most pious, and was heard to say that only the maiden could replace queen rhaella in his heart. his passion was impossible, of course. a landed knight is no fit consort for a princess of royal blood. and daario naharis is only a sellsword, not fit to buckle on the golden spurs of even a landed knight. and my father? was there some woman he loved better than his queen? ser barristan shifted in the saddle. not ... not loved. mayhaps wanted is a better word, but ... it was only kitchen gossip, the whispers of washer-women and stableboys ... i want to know. i never knew my father. i want to know everything about him. the good and ... the rest. as you command. the white knight chose his words with care. prince aerys ... as a youth, he was taken with a certain lady of easterly rock, a cousin of tywin lannister. when she and tywin wed, your father drank too much wine at the wedding feast and was heard to say that it was a great pity that the lord's right to the first night had been abolished. a drunken jape, no more, but tywin lannister was not a man to forget such words, or the ... the liberties your father took during the bedding. his face reddened. i have said too much, your grace. i— gracious gueen, well met! another procession had come up beside her own, and hizdahr zo loraq was smiling at her from his own sedan chair. my king. dany wondered where daario naharis was, what he was doing. if this were a story, he would gallop up just as we reached the temple, to challenge hizdahr for my hand. side by side the queen's procession and hizdahr zo loraq's made their slow way across meereen, until finally the temple of the graces loomed up before them, its golden domes flashing in the sun. how beautiful, the queen tried to tell herself, but inside her was some foolish little girl who could not help but look about for daario. if he loved you, he would come and carry you off at swordpoint, as rhaegar carried off his northern girl, the girl in her insisted, but the queen knew that was folly. even if her captain was mad enough to attempt it, the brazen beasts would cut him down before he got within a hundred yards of her. galazza galare awaited them outside the temple doors, surrounded by her sisters in white and pink and red, blue and gold and purple. there are fewer than there were. dany looked for ezzara and did not see her. has the bloody flux taken even her? though the queen had let the astapori starve outside her walls to keep the bloody flux from spreading, it was spreading nonetheless. many had been stricken: freedmen, sellswords, brazen beasts, even dothraki, though as yet none of the unsullied had been touched. she prayed the worst was past. the graces brought forth an ivory chair and a golden bowl. holding her tokar daintily so as not to tread upon its fringes, daenerys targaryen eased herself onto the chair's plush velvet seat, and hizdahr zo loraq went to his knees, unlaced her sandals, and washed her feet whilst fifty eunuchs sang and ten thousand eyes looked on. he has gentle hands, she mused, as warm fragrant oils ran between her toes. if he has a gentle heart as well, i may grow fond of him in time. when her feet were clean, hizdahr dried them with a soft towel, laced her sandals on again, and helped her stand. hand in hand, they followed the green grace inside the temple, where the air was thick with incense and the gods of ghis stood cloaked in shadows in their alcoves. four hours later, they emerged again as man and wife, bound together wrist and ankle with chains of yellow gold. the hall rang to yunkish laughter, yunkish songs, yunkish prayers. dancers danced; musicians played queer tunes with bells and squeaks and bladders; singers sang ancient love songs in the incomprehensible tongue of old ghis. wine flowed— not the thin pale stuff of slaver's bay but rich sweet vintages from the arbor and dreamwine from qarth, flavored with strange spices. the yunkai'i had come at king hizdahr's invitation, to sign the peace and witness the rebirth of meereen's far-famed fighting pits. her noble husband had opened the great pyramid to fete them. / hate this, thought daenerys targaryen. how did this happen, that i am drinking and smiling with men i'd sooner flay? a dozen different sorts of meat and fish were served: camel, crocodile, singing squid, lacquered ducks and spiny grubs, with goat and ham and horse for those whose tastes were less exotic. plus dog. no ghiscari feast was complete without a course of dog. hizdahr's cooks prepared dog four different ways. ghiscari will eat anything that swims or flies or crawls, but for man and dragon, daario had warned her, and i'd wager they'd eat dragon too if given half a chance. meat alone does not make a meal, though, so there were fruits and grains and vegetables as well. the air was redolent with the scents of saffron, cinnamon, cloves, pepper, and other costly spices. dany scarce touched a bite. this is peace, she told herself. this is what i wanted, what i worked for, this is why i married hizdahr. so why does it taste so much like defeat? it is only for a little while more, my love, hizdahr had assured her. the yunkai'i will soon be gone, and their allies and hirelings with them. we shall have all we desired. peace, food, trade. our port is open once again, and ships are being permitted to come and go. they are permitting that, yes, she had replied, but their warships remain. they can close their fingers around our throat again whenever they wish. they have opened a slave market within sight of my walls! outside our walls, sweet queen. that was a condition of the peace, that yunkai would be free to trade in slaves as before, unmolested. in their own city. not where i have to see it. the wise masters had established their slave pens and auction block just south of the skahazadhan, where the wide brown river flowed into slaver's bay. they are mocking me to my face, making a show of how powerless i am to stop them. posing and posturing, said her noble husband. a show, as you have said. let them have their mummery. when they are gone, we will make a fruit market of what they leave behind. when they are gone, dany repeated. and when will they be gone? riders have been seen beyond the skahazadhan. dothraki scouts, rakharo says, with a khalasar behind them. they will have captives. men, women, and children, gifts for the slavers. dothraki did not buy or sell, but they gave gifts and received them. that is why the yunkai'i have thrown up this market. they will leave here with thousands of new slaves. hizdahr zo loraq shrugged. but they will leave. that is the important part, my love. yunkai will trade in slaves, meereen will not, this is what we have agreed. endure this for a little while longer, and it shall pass. so daenerys sat silent through the meal, wrapped in a vermilion tokar and black thoughts, speaking only when spoken to, brooding on the men and women being bought and sold outside her walls, even as they feasted here within the city. let her noble husband make the speeches and laugh at the feeble yunkish japes. that was a king's right and a king's duty. much of the talk about the table was of the matches to be fought upon the morrow. barsena blackhair was going to face a boar, his tusks against her dagger. khrazz was fighting, as was the spotted cat. and in the day's final pairing, goghor the giant would go against belaquo bonebreaker. one would be dead before the sun went down. no queen has clean hands, dany told herself. she thought of doreah, of quaro, of eroeh ... of a little girl she had never met, whose name had been hazzea. better a few should die in the pit than thousands at the gates. this is the price of peace, i pay it willingly. if i look back, i am lost. the yunkish supreme commander, yurkhaz zo yunzak, might have been alive during aegon's conquest, to judge by his appearance. bent-backed, wrinkled, and toothless, he was carried to the table by two strapping slaves. the other yunkish lords were hardly more impressive. one was small and stunted, though the slave soldiers who attended him were grotesquely tall and thin. the third was young, fit, and dashing, but so drunk that dany could scarce understand a word he said. how could i have been brought to this pass by creatures such as these? thesellswords were a different matter. each of the four free companies serving yunkai had sent its commander. the windblown were represented by the pentoshi nobleman known as the tattered prince, the long lances by gylo rhegan, who looked more shoemaker than soldier and spoke in murmurs. bloodbeard, from the company of the cat, made enough noise for him and a dozen more. a huge man with a great bush of beard and a prodigious appetite for wine and women, he bellowed, belched, farted like a thunderclap, and pinched every serving girl who came within his reach. from time to time he would pull one down into his lap to squeeze her breasts and fondle her between the legs. the second sons were represented too. if daario were here, this meal would end in blood. no promised peace could ever have persuaded her captain to permit brown ben plumm to stroll back into meereen and leave alive. dany had sworn that no harm would come to the seven envoys and commanders, though that had not been enough for the yunkai'i. they had required hostages of her as well. to balance the three yunkish nobles and four sellsword captains, meereen sent seven of its own out to the siege camp: hizdahr's sister, two of his cousins, dany's bloodrider jhogo, her admiral groleo, the unsullied captain hero, and daario naharis. i will leave my girls with you, her captain had said, handing her his sword belt and its gilded wantons. keep them safe for me, beloved. we would not want them making bloody mischief amongst the yunkai'i. the shavepate was absent as well. the first thing hizdahr had done upon being crowned was to remove him from command of the brazen beasts, replacing him with his own cousin, the plump and pasty marghaz zo loraq. it is for the best. the green grace says there is blood between loraq and kandaq, and the shavepate never made a secret of his disdain for my lord husband. and daario ... daario had only grown wilder since her wedding. her peace did not please him, her marriage pleased him less, and he had been furious at being deceived by the dornishmen. when prince quentyn told them that the other westerosi had come over to the stormcrows at the command of the tattered prince, only the intercession of grey worm and his unsullied prevented daario from killing them all. the false deserters had been imprisoned safely in the bowels of the pyramid ... but daario's rage continued to fester. he will be safer as a hostage. my captain was not made for peace. dany could not risk his cutting down brown ben plumm, making mock of hizdahr before the court, provoking the yunkai'i, or otherwise upsetting the agreement that she had given up so much to win. daario was war and woe. henceforth, she must keep him out of her bed, out of her heart, and out of her. if he did not betray her, he would master her. she did not know which of those she feared the most. when the gluttony was done and all the half-eaten food had been cleared away— to be given to the poor who gathered below, at the queen's insistence— tall glass flutes were filled with a spiced liqueur from qarth as dark as amber. then began the entertainments. a troupe of yunkish castrati owned by yurkhaz zo yunzak sang them songs in the ancient tongue of the old empire, their voices high and sweet and impossibly pure. have you ever heard such singing, my love? hizdahr asked her. they have the voices of gods, do they not? yes, she said, though i wonder if they might not have preferred to have the fruits of men. all of the entertainers were slaves. that had been part of the peace, that slaveowners be allowed the right to bring their chattels into meereen without fear of having them freed. in return the yunkai'i had promised to respect the rights and liberties of the former slaves that dany had freed. a fair bargain, hizdahr said, but the taste it left in the queen's mouth was foul. she drank another cup of wine to wash it out. if it please you, yurkhaz will be pleased to give us the singers, i do not doubt, her noble husband said. a gift to seal our peace, an ornament to our court. he will give us these castrati, dany thought, and then he will march home and make some more. the world is full of boys. the tumblers who came next failed to move her either, even when they formed a human pyramid nine levels high, with a naked little girl on top. is that meant to represent my pyramid? the queen wondered. is the girl on top meant to be me? afterward her lord husband led his guests onto the lower terrace, so the visitors from the yellow city might behold meereen by night. wine cups in hand, the yunkai'i wandered the garden in small groups, beneath lemon trees and night-blooming flowers, and dany found herself face-to-face with brown ben plumm. he bowed low. worship. you look lovely. well, you always did. none of them yunkishmen are half so pretty. i thought i might bring a wedding gift for you, but the bidding went too high for old brown ben. i want no gifts from you. this one you might. the head of an old foe. your own? she said sweetly. you betrayed me. now that's a harsh way o' putting it, if you don't mind me saying. brown ben scratched at his speckled grey-and-white whiskers. we went over to the winning side, is all. same as we done before. it weren't all me, neither. i put it to my men. so they betrayed me, is that what you are saying? why? did i mistreat the second sons? did i cheat you on your pay? never that, said brown ben, but it's not all about the coin, your high-and-mightiness. i learned that a long time back, at my first battle. morning after the fight, i was rooting through the dead, looking for the odd bit o' plunder, as it were. came upon this one corpse, some axeman had taken his whole arm off at the shoulder. he was covered with flies, all crusty with dried blood, might be why no one else had touched him, but under them he wore this studded jerkin, looked to be good leather. i figured it might fit me well enough, so i chased away the flies and cut it off him. the damn thing was heavier than it had any right to be, though. under the lining, he'd sewn a fortune in coin. gold, your worship, sweet yellow gold. enough for any man to live like a lord for the rest o' his days. but what good did it do him? there he was with all his coin, lying in the blood and mud with his fucking arm cut off. and that's the lesson, see? silver's sweet and gold's our mother, but once you're dead they're worth less than that last shit you take as you lie dying. i told you once, there are old sellswords and there are bold sellswords, but there are no old bold sellswords. my boys didn't care to die, that's all, and when i told them that you couldn't unleash them dragons against the yunkishmen, well ... you saw me as defeated, dany thought, and who am i to say that you were wrong? i understand. she might have ended it there, but she was curious. enough gold to live like a lord, you said. what did you do with all that wealth? brown ben laughed. fool boy that i was, i told a man i took to be my friend, and he told our serjeant, and my brothers-in-arms come and relieved me o' that burden. serjeant said i was too young, that i'd only waste it all on whores and such. he let me keep the jerkin, though. he spat. you don't never want to trust a sellsword, m'lady. i have learned that much. one day i must be sure to thank you for the lesson. brown ben's eyes crinkled up. no need. i know the sort o' thanks you have in mind. he bowed again and moved away. dany turned to gaze out over her city. beyond her walls the yellow tents of the yunkai'i stood in orderly rows beside the sea, protected by the ditches their slaves had dug for them. two iron legions out of new ghis, trained and armed in the same fashion as unsullied, were encamped across the river to the north. two more ghiscari legions had made camp to the east, choking off the road to the khyzai pass. the horse lines and cookfires of the free companies lay to the south. by day thin plumes of smoke hung against the sky like ragged grey ribbons. by night distant fires could be seen. hard by the bay was the abomination, the slave market at her door. she could not see it now, with the sun set, but she knew that it was there. that just made her angrier. ser barristan? she said softly. the white knight appeared at once. your grace. how much did you hear? enough. he was not wrong. never trust a sellsword. or a queen, thought dany. is there some man in the second sons who might be persuaded to ... remove ... brown ben? as daario naharis once removed the other captains of the stormcrows? the old knight looked uncomfortable. perhaps. i would not know, your grace. no, she thought, you are too honest and too honorable. if not, the yunkai'i employ three other companies. rogues and cutthroats, scum of a hundred battlefields, ser barristan warned, with captains full as treacherous as plumm. i am only a young girl and know little of such things, but it seems to me that we want them to be treacherous. once, you'll recall, i convinced the second sons and stormcrows to join us. if your grace wishes a privy word with gylo rhegan or the tattered prince, i could bring them up to your apartments. this is not the time. too many eyes, too many ears. their absence would be noted even if you could separate them discreetly from the yunkai'i. we must find some quieter way of reaching out to them ... not tonight, but soon. as you command. though i fear this is not a task for which i am well suited. in king's landing work of this sort was left to lord littlefinger or the spider. we old knights are simple men, only good for fighting. he patted his sword hilt. our prisoners, suggested dany. the westerosi who came over from the windblown with the three dornishmen. we still have them in cells, do we not? use them. free them, you mean? is that wise? they were sent here to worm their way into your trust, so they might betray your grace at the first chance. then they failed. i do not trust them. i will never trust them. if truth be told, dany was forgetting how to trust. we can still use them. one was a woman. meris. send her back, as a ... a gesture of my regard. if their captain is a clever man, he will understand. the woman is the worst of all. all the better. dany considered a moment. we should sound out the long lances too. and the company of the cat. bloodbeard. ser barristan's frown deepened. if it please your grace, we want no part of him. your grace is too young to remember the ninepenny kings, but this bloodbeard is cut from the same savage cloth. there is no honor in him, only hunger ... for gold, for glory, for blood. you know more of such men than me, ser. if bloodbeard might be truly the most dishonorable and greedy of the sellswords, he might be the easiest to sway, but she was loath to go against ser barristan's counsel in such matters. do as you think best. but do it soon. if hizdahr's peace should break, i want to be ready. i do not trust the slavers. / do not trust my husband. they will turn on us at the first sign of weakness. the yunkai'i grow weaker as well. the bloody flux has taken hold amongst the tolosi, it is said, and spread across the river to the third ghiscari legion. the pale mare. daenerys sighed. quaithe warned me of the pale mare's coming. she told me of the dornish prince as well, the sun's son. she told me much and more, but all in riddles. i cannot rely on plague to save me from my enemies. set pretty meris free. at once. as you command. though ... your grace, if i may be so bold, there is another road ... the dornish road? dany sighed. the three dornishmen had been at the feast, as befit prince quentyn's rank, though reznak had taken care to seat them as far as possible from her husband. hizdahr did not seem to be of a jealous nature, but no man would be pleased by the presence of a rival suitor near his new bride. the boy seems pleasant and well spoken, but ... house martell is ancient and noble, and has been a leal friend to house targaryen for more than a century, your grace. i had the honor of serving with prince quentyn's great-uncle in your father's seven. prince lewyn was as valiant a brother-in-arms as any man could wish for. quentyn martell is of the same blood, if it please your grace. it would please me if he had turned up with these fifty thousand swords he speaks of. instead he brings two knights and a parchment. will a parchment shield my people from the yunkai'i? if he had come with a fleet ... sunspear has never been a sea power, your grace. no. dany knew enough of westerosi history to know that. nymeria had landed ten thousand ships upon dome's sandy shores, but when she wed her dornish prince she had burned them all and turned her back upon the sea forever. dome is too far away. to please this prince, i would need to abandon all my people. you should send him home. dornishmen are notoriously stubborn, your grace. prince quentyn's forebears fought your own for the better part of two hundred years. he will not go without you. then he will die here, daenerys thought, unless there is more to him than i can see. is he still within? drinking with his knights. bring him to me. it is time he met my children. a flicker of doubt passed across the long, solemn face of barristan selmy. as you command. her king was laughing with yurkhaz zo yunzak and the other yunkish lords. dany did not think that he would miss her, but just in case she instructed her handmaids to tell him that she was answering a call of nature, should he inquire after her. ser barristan was waiting by the steps with the dornish prince. martell's square face was flushed and ruddy. too much wine, the queen concluded, though he was doing his best to conceal that. apart from the line of copper suns that ornamented his belt, the dornishman was plainly dressed. they call him frog, dany recalled. she could see why. he was not a handsome man. she smiled. my prince. it is a long way down. are you certain that you wish to do this? if it would please your grace. then come. a pair of unsullied went down the steps before them, bearing torches; behind came two brazen beasts, one masked as a fish, the other as a hawk. even here in her own pyramid, on this happy night of peace and celebration, ser barristan insisted on keeping guards about her everywhere she went. the small company made the long descent in silence, stopping thrice to refresh themselves along the way. the dragon has three heads, dany said when they were on the final flight. my marriage need not be the end of all your hopes. i know why you are here. for you, said quentyn, all awkward gallantry. no, said dany. for fire and blood. one of the elephants trumpeted at them from his stall. an answering roar from below made her flush with sudden heat. prince quentyn looked up in alarm. the dragons know when she is near, ser barristan told him. every child knows its mother, dany thought. when the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves ... they call to me. come. she took prince quentyn by the hand and led him to the pit where two of her dragons were confined. remain outside, dany told ser barristan, as the unsullied were opening the huge iron doors. prince quentyn will protect me. she drew the dornish prince inside with her, to stand above the pit. the dragons craned their necks around, gazing at them with burning eyes. viserion had shattered one chain and melted the others. he clung to the roof of the pit like some huge white bat, his claws dug deep into the burnt and crumbling bricks. rhaegal, still chained, was gnawing on the carcass of a bull. the bones on the floor of the pit were deeper than the last time she had been down here, and the walls and floors were black and grey, more ash than brick. they would not hold much longer ... but behind them was only earth and stone. can dragons tunnel through rock, like the firewyrms of old valyria? she hoped not. the dornish prince had gone as white as milk. i ... i had heard that there were three. drogon is hunting. he did not need to hear the rest. the white one is viserion, the green is rhaegal. i named them for my brothers. her voice echoed off the scorched stonewalls. it sounded small— a girl's voice, not the voice of a queen and conqueror, nor the glad voice of a new-made bride. rhaegal roared in answer, and fire filled the pit, a spear of red and yellow. viserion replied, his own flames gold and orange. when he flapped his wings, a cloud of grey ash filled the air. broken chains clanked and clattered about his legs. quentyn martell jumped back a foot. a crueler woman might have laughed at him, but dany squeezed his hand and said, they frighten me as well. there is no shame in that. my children have grown wild and angry in the dark. you ... you mean to ride them? one of them. all i know of dragons is what my brother told me when i was a girl, and some i read in books, but it is said that even aegon the conqueror never dared mount vhagar or meraxes, nor did his sisters ride balerion the black dread. dragons live longer than men, some for hundreds of years, so balerion had other riders after aegon died ... but no rider ever flew two dragons. viserion hissed again. smoke rose between his teeth, and deep down in his throat they could see gold fire churning. they are ... they are fearsome creatures. they are dragons, quentyn. dany stood on her toes and kissed him lightly, once on each cheek. and so am i. the young prince swallowed. i ... i have the blood of the dragon in me as well, your grace. i can trace my lineage back to the first daenerys, the targaryen princess who was sister to king daeron the good and wife to the prince of dome. he built the water gardens for her. the water gardens? she knew little and less of dome or its history, if truth be told. my father's favorite palace. it would please me to show them to you one day. they are all of pink marble, with pools and fountains, overlooking the sea. they sound lovely. she drew him away from the pit. he does not belong here. he should never have come. you ought to return there. my court is no safe place for you, i fear. you have more enemies than you know. you made daario look a fool, and he is not a man to forget such a slight. i have my knights. my sworn shields. two knights. daario has five hundred stormcrows. and you would do well to beware of my lord husband too. he seems a mild and pleasant man, i know, but do not be deceived. hizdahr's crown derives from mine, and he commands the allegiance of some of the most fearsome fighters in the world. if one of them should think to win his favor by disposing of a rival ... i am a prince of dome, your grace. i will not run from slaves and sell swords. then you truly are a fool. prince frog. dany gave her wild children one last lingering look. she could hear the dragons screaming as she led the boy back to the door, and see the play of light against the bricks, reflections of their fires. if i look back, i am lost. ser barristan will have summoned a pair of sedan chairs to carry us back up to the banquet, but the climb can still be wearisome. behind them, the great iron doors closed with a resounding clang. tell me of this other daenerys. i know less than i should of the history of my father's kingdom. i never had a maester growing up. only a brother. it would be my pleasure, your grace, said quentyn. it was well past midnight before the last of their guests took their leave and dany retired to her own apartments to join her lord and king. hizdahr at least was happy, if somewhat drunk. i keep my promises, he told her, as irri and jhiqui were robing them for bed. you wished for peace, and it is yours. and you wished for blood, and soon enough i must give it to you, dany thought, but what she said was, i am grateful. the excitement of the day had inflamed her husband's passions. no sooner had her handmaids retired for the night than he tore the robe from her and tumbled her backwards into bed. dany slid her arms around him and let him have his way. drunk as he was, she knew he would not be inside her long. nor was he. afterward he nuzzled at her ear and whispered, gods grant that we have made a son tonight. the words of mirri maz duur rang in her head. when the sun rises in the west and sets in the east. when the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves. when your womb guickens again, and you bear a living child. then he will return, and not before. the meaning was plain enough; khal drogo was as like to return from the dead as she was to bear a living child. but there are some secrets she could not bring herself to share, even with a husband, so she let hizdahr zo loraq keep his hopes. her noble husband was soon fast asleep. daenerys could only twist and turn beside him. she wanted to shake him, wake him, make him hold her, kiss her, fuck her again, but even if he did, he would fall back to sleep again afterward, leaving her alone in the darkness. she wondered what daario was doing. was he restless as well? was he thinking about her? did he love her, truly? did he hate her for marrying hizdahr? / should never have taken him into my bed. he was only a sellsword, no fit consort for a queen, and yet ... / knew that all along, but i did it anyway. my queen? said a soft voice in the darkness. dany flinched. who is there? only missandei. the naathi scribe moved closer to the bed. this one heard you crying. crying? i was not crying. why would i cry? i have my peace, i have my king, i have everything a queen might wish for. you had a bad dream, that was all. as you say, your grace. she bowed and made to go. stay, said dany. i do not wish to be alone. his grace is with you, missandei pointed out. his grace is dreaming, but i cannot sleep. on the morrow i must bathe in blood. the price of peace. she smiled wanly and patted the bed. come. sit. talk with me. if it please you. missandei sat down beside her. what shall we talk of? home, said dany. naath. butterflies and brothers. tell me of the things that make you happy, the things that make you giggle, all your sweetest memories. remind me that there is still good in the world. missandei did her best. she was still talking when dany finally fell to sleep, to dream queer, half-formed dreams of smoke and fire. the morning came too soon. the sky was a merciless blue, without a wisp of cloud in sight. the bricks will soon be baking in the sun, thought dany. down on the sands, the fighters will feel the heat through the soles of their sandals. jhiqui slipped dany's silk robe from her shoulders and irri helped her into her bathing pool. the light of the rising sun shimmered on the water, broken by the shadow of the persimmon tree. even if the pits must open, must your grace go yourself? asked missandei as she was washing the queen's hair. half of meereen will be there to see me, gentle heart. your grace, said missandei, this one begs leave to say that half of meereen will be there to watch men bleed and die. she is not wrong, the queen knew, but it makes no matter. soon dany was as clean as she was ever going to be. she pushed herself to her feet, splashing softly. water ran down her legs and beaded on her breasts. the sun was climbing up the sky, and her people would soon be gathering. she would rather have drifted in the fragrant pool all day, eating iced fruit off silver trays and dreaming of a house with a red door, but a queen belongs to her people, not to herself. jhiqui brought a soft towel to pat her dry. khaleesi, which tokar will you want today? asked irri. the yellow silk. the queen of the rabbits could not be seen without her floppy ears. the yellow silk was light and cool, and it would be blistering down in the pit. the red sands will burn the soles of those about to die. and over it, the long red veils. the veils would keep the wind from blowing sand into her mouth. and the red will hide any blood spatters. as jhiqui brushed dany's hair and irri painted the queen's nails, they chattered happily about the day's matches. missandei reemerged. your grace. the king bids you join him when you are dressed. and prince quentyn has come with his dornish men. they beg a word, if that should please you. little about this day shall please me. some other day. at the base of the great pyramid, ser barristan awaited them beside an ornate open palanquin, surrounded by brazen beasts. ser grandfather, dany thought. despite his age, he looked tall and handsome in the armor that she'd given him. i would be happier if you had unsullied guards about you today, your grace, the old knight said, as hizdahr went to greet his cousin. half of these brazen beasts are untried freedmen. and the other half are meereenese of doubtful loyalty, he left unsaid. selmy mistrusted all the meereenese, even shavepates. and untried they shall remain unless we try them. a mask can hide many things, your grace. is the man behind the owl mask the same owl who guarded you yesterday and the day before? how can we know? how should meereen ever come to trust the brazen beasts if i do not? there are good brave men beneath those masks. i put my life into their hands. dany smiled for him. you fret too much, ser. i will have you beside me, what other protection do i need? i am one old man, your grace. strong belwas will be with me as well. as you say. ser barristan lowered his voice. your grace. we set the woman meris free, as you commanded. before she went, she asked to speak with you. i met with her instead. she claims this tattered prince meant to bring the windblown over to your cause from the beginning. that he sent her here to treat with you secretly, but the dornishmen unmasked them and betrayed them before she could make her own approach. treachery on treachery, the queen thought wearily. is there no end to it? how much of this do you believe, ser? little and less, your grace, but those were her words. will they come over to us, if need be? she says they will. but for a price. pay it. meereen needed iron, not gold. the tattered prince will want more than coin, your grace. meris says that he wants pentos. pentos? her eyes narrowed. how can i give him pentos? it is half a world away. he would be willing to wait, the woman meris suggested. until we march for westerns. and if i never march for westerns? pentos belongs to the pentoshi. and magister lllyrio is in pentos. he who arranged my marriage to khal drogo and gave me my dragon eggs. who sent me you, and belwas, and groleo. i owe him much and more. i will not repay that debt by giving his city to some sellsword. no. ser barristan inclined his head. your grace is wise. have you ever seen such an auspicious day, my love? hizdahr zo loraq commented when she rejoined him. he helped dany up onto the palanquin, where two tall thrones stood side by side. auspicious for you, perhaps. less so for those who must die before the sun goes down. all men must die, said hizdahr, but not all can die in glory, with the cheers of the city ringing in their ears. he lifted a hand to the soldiers on the doors. open. the plaza that fronted on her pyramid was paved with bricks of many colors, and the heat rose from them in shimmering waves. people swarmed everywhere. some rode litters or sedan chairs, some forked donkeys, many were afoot. nine of every ten were moving westward, down the broad brick thoroughfare to daznak's pit. when they caught sight of the palanquin emerging from the pyramid, a cheer went up from those nearest and spread across the plaza. how queer, the queen thought. they cheer me on the same plaza where i once impaled one hundred sixty-three great masters. a great drum led the royal procession to clear their way through the streets. between each beat, a shavepate herald in a shirt of polished copper disks cried for the crowd to part. bomm. they come! bomm. make way! bomm. the queen! bomm. the king! bomm. behind the drum marched brazen beasts four abreast. some carried cudgels, others staves; all wore pleated skirts, leathern sandals, and patchwork cloaks sewn from squares of many colors to echo the many-colored bricks of meereen. their masks gleamed in the sun: boars and bulls, hawks and herons, lions and tigers and bears, fork-tongued serpents and hideous basilisks. strong belwas, who had no love for horses, walked in front of them in his studded vest, his scarred brown belly jiggling with every step. irri and jhiqui followed ahorse, with aggo and rakharo, then reznak in an ornate sedan chair with an awning to keep the sun off his head. ser barristan selmy rode at dany's side, his armor flashing in the sun. a long cloak flowed from his shoulders, bleached as white as bone. on his left arm was a large white shield. a little farther back was quentyn martell, the dornish prince, with his two companions. the column crept slowly down the long brick street. bomm. they come! bomm. our queen. our king. bomm. make way. dany could hear her handmaids arguing behind her, debating who was going to win the day's final match. jhiqui favored the gigantic goghor, who looked more bull than man, even to the bronze ring in his nose. irri insisted that belaquo bonebreaker's flail would prove the giant's undoing. my handmaids are dothraki, she told herself. death rides with every khalasar. the day she wed khal drogo, the arakhs had flashed at her wedding feast, and men had died whilst others drank and mated. life and death went hand in hand amongst the horselords, and a sprinkling of blood was thought to bless a marriage. her new marriage would soon be drenched in blood. how blessed it would be. bomm, bomm, bomm, bomm, bomm, bomm, came the drumbeats, faster than before, suddenly angry and impatient. ser barristan drew his sword as the column ground to an abrupt halt between the pink-and-white pyramid of pahl and the green-and-black of naqqan. dany turned. why are we stopped? hizdahr stood. the way is blocked. a palanquin lay overturned athwart their way. one of its bearers had collapsed to the bricks, overcome by heat. help that man, dany commanded. get him off the street before he's stepped on and give him food and water. he looks as though he has not eaten in a fortnight. ser barristan glanced uneasily to left and right. ghiscari faces were visible on the terraces, looking down with cool and unsympathetic eyes. your grace, i do not like this halt. this may be some trap. the sons of the harpy— —have been tamed, declared hizdahr zo loraq. why should they seek to harm my queen when she has taken me for her king and consort? now help that man, as my sweet queen has commanded. he took dany by the hand and smiled. the brazen beasts did as they were bid. dany watched them at their work. those bearers were slaves before i came. i made them free. yet that palanquin is no lighter. true, said hizdahr, but those men are paid to bear its weight now. before you came, that man who fell would have an overseer standing over him, stripping the skin off his back with a whip. instead he is being given aid. it was true. a brazen beast in a boar mask had offered the litter bearer a skin of water. i suppose i must be thankful for small victories, the queen said. one step, then the next, and soon we shall be running. together we shall make a new meereen. the street ahead had finally cleared. shall we continue on? what could she do but nod? one step, then the next, but where is it i'm going? at the gates of daznak's pit two towering bronze warriors stood locked in mortal combat. one wielded a sword, the other an axe; the sculptor had depicted them in the act of killing one another, their blades and bodies forming an archway overhead. the mortal art, thought dany. she had seen the fighting pits many times from her terrace. the small ones dotted the face of meereen like pockmarks; the larger were weeping sores, red and raw. none compared to this one, though. strong belwas and ser barristan fell in to either side as she and her lord husband passed beneath the bronzes, to emerge at the top of a great brick bowl ringed by descending tiers of benches, each a different color. hizdahr zo loraq led her down, through black, purple, blue, green, white, yellow, and orange to the red, where the scarlet bricks took the color of the sands below. around them peddlers were selling dog sausages, roast onions, and unborn puppies on a stick, but dany had no need of such. hizdahr had stocked their box with flagons of chilled wine and sweetwater, with figs, dates, melons, and pomegranates, with pecans and peppers and a big bowl of honeyed locusts. strong belwas bellowed, locusts! as he seized the bowl and began to crunch them by the handful. those are very tasty, advised hizdahr. you ought to try a few yourself, my love. they are rolled in spice before the honey, so they are sweet and hot at once. that explains the way belwas is sweating, dany said. i believe i will content myself with figs and dates. across the pit the graces sat in flowing robes of many colors, clustered around the austere figure of galazza galare, who alone amongst them wore the green. the great masters of meereen occupied the red and orange benches. the women were veiled, and the men had brushed and lacquered their hair into horns and hands and spikes. hizdahr's kin of the ancient line of loraq seemed to favor tokars of purple and indigo and lilac, whilst those of pahl were striped in pink and white. the envoys from yunkai were all in yellow and filled the box beside the king's, each of them with his slaves and servants. meereenese of lesser birth crowded the upper tiers, more distant from the carnage. the black and purple benches, highest and most distant from the sand, were crowded with freedmen and other common folk. the sellswords had been placed up there as well, daenerys saw, their captains seated right amongst the common soldiers. she spied brown ben's weathered face and bloodbeard's fiery red whiskers and long braids. her lord husband stood and raised his hands. great masters! my queen has come this day, to show her love for you, her people. by her grace and with her leave, i give you now your mortal art. meereen! let queen daenerys hear your love! ten thousand throats roared out their thanks; then twenty thousand; then all. they did not call her name, which few of them could pronounce. mother! they cried instead; in the old dead tongue of ghis, the word was mhysa! they stamped their feet and slapped their bellies and shouted, mhysa, mhysa, mhysa, until the whole pit seemed to tremble. dany let the sound wash over her. / am not your mother, she might have shouted, back, i am the mother of your slaves, of every boy who ever died upon these sands whilst you gorged on honeyed locusts. behind her, reznak leaned in to whisper in her ear, magnificence, hear how they love you ! no, she knew, they love their mortal art. when the cheers began to ebb, she allowed to herself to sit. their box was in the shade, but her head was pounding. jhiqui, she called, sweet water, if you would. my throat is very dry. khrazz will have the honor of the day's first kill, hizdahr told her. there has never been a better fighter. strong belwas was better, insisted strong belwas. khrazz was meereenese, of humble birth— a tall man with a brush of stiff red-black hair running down the center of his head. his foe was an ebon-skinned spearman from the summer isles whose thrusts kept khrazz at bay for a time, but once he slipped inside the spear with his shortsword, only butchery remained. after it was done, khrazz cut the heart from the black man, raised it above his head red and dripping, and took a bite from it. khrazz believes the hearts of brave men make him stronger, said hizdahr. jhiqui murmured her approval. dany had once eaten a stallion's heart to give strength to her unborn son ... but that had not saved rhaego when the maegi murdered him in her womb. three treasons shall you know. she was the first, jorah was the second. brown ben plumm the third. was she done with betrayals? ah, said hizdahr, pleased. now comes the spotted cat. see how he moves, my queen. a poem on two feet. the foe hizdahr had found for the walking poem was as tall as goghor and as broad as belwas, but slow. they were fighting six feet from dany's box when the spotted cat hamstrung him. as the man stumbled to his knees, the cat put a foot on his back and a hand around his head and opened his throat from ear to ear. the red sands drank his blood, the wind his final words. the crowd screamed its approval. bad fighting, good dying, said strong belwas. strong belwas hates it when they scream. he had finished all the honeyed locusts. he gave a belch and took a swig of wine. pale qartheen, black summer islanders, copper-skinned dothraki, tyr oshi with blue beards, lamb men, jogos nhai, sullen braavosi, brindle-skinned half-men from the jungles of sothoros— from the ends of the world they came to die in daznak's pit. this one shows much promise, my sweet, hizdahr said of a lysene youth with long blond hair that fluttered in the wind ... but his foe grabbed a handful of that hair, pulled the boy off-balance, and gutted him. in death he looked even younger than he had with blade in hand. a boy, said dany. he was only a boy. six-and-ten, hizdahr insisted. a man grown, who freely chose to risk his life for gold and glory. no children die today in daznak's, as my gentle queen in her wisdom has decreed. another small victory. perhaps i cannot make my people good, she told herself, but i should at least try to make them a little less bad. daenerys would have prohibited contests between women as well, but barsena blackhair protested that she had as much right to risk her life as any man. the queen had also wished to forbid the follies, comic combats where cripples, dwarfs, and crones had at one another with cleavers, torches, and hammers (the more inept the fighters, the funnier the folly, it was thought), but hizdahr said his people would love her more if she laughed with them, and argued that without such frolics, the cripples, dwarfs, and crones would starve. so dany had relented. it had been the custom to sentence criminals to the pits; that practice she agreed might resume, but only for certain crimes. murderers and rapers may be forced to fight, and all those who persist in slaving, but not thieves or debtors. beasts were still allowed, though. dany watched an elephant make short work of a pack of six red wolves. next a bull was set against a bear in a bloody battle that left both animals torn and dying. the flesh is not wasted, said hizdahr. the butchers use the carcasses to make a healthful stew for the hungry. any man who presents himself at the gates of fate may have a bowl. a good law, dany said. you have so few of them. we must make certain that this tradition is continued. after the beast fights came a mock battle, pitting six men on foot against six horsemen, the former armed with shields and longswords, the latter with dothraki arakhs. the mock knights were clad in mail hauberks, whilst the mock dothraki wore no armor. at first the riders seemed to have the advantage, riding down two of their foes and slashing the ear from a third, but then the surviving knights began to attack the horses, and one by one the riders were unmounted and slain, to jhiqui's great disgust. that was no true khalasar, she said. these carcasses are not destined for your healthful stew, i would hope, dany said, as the slain were being removed. the horses, yes, said hizdahr. the men, no. horsemeat and onions makes you strong, said belwas. the battle was followed by the day's first folly, a tilt between a pair of jousting dwarfs, presented by one of the yunkish lords that hizdahr had invited to the games. one rode a hound, the other a sow. their wooden armor had been freshly painted, so one bore the stag of the usurper robert baratheon, the other the golden lion of house lannister. that was for her sake, plainly. their antics soon had belwas snorting laughter, though dany's smile was faint and forced. when the dwarf in red tumbled from the saddle and began to chase his sow across the sands, whilst the dwarf on the dog galloped after him, whapping at his buttocks with a wooden sword, she said, this is sweet and silly, but ... be patient, my sweet, said hizdahr. they are about to loose the lions. daenerys gave him a quizzical look. lions? three of them. the dwarfs will not expect them. she frowned. the dwarfs have wooden swords. wooden armor. how do you expect them to fight lions? badly, said hizdahr, though perhaps they will surprise us. more like they will shriek and run about and try to climb out of the pit. that is what makes this a folly. dany was not pleased. i forbid it. gentle queen. you do not want to disappoint your people. you swore to me that the fighters would be grown men who had freely consented to risk their lives for gold and honor. these dwarfs did not consent to battle lions with wooden swords. you will stop it. now. the king's mouth tightened. for a heartbeat dany thought she saw a flash of anger in those placid eyes. as you command. hizdahr beckoned to his pitmaster. no lions, he said when the man trotted over, whip in hand. not one, magnificence? where is the fun in that? my queen has spoken. the dwarfs will not be harmed. the crowd will not like it. then bring on barsena. that should appease them. your worship knows best. the pitmaster snapped his whip and shouted out commands. the dwarfs were herded off, pig and dog and all, as the spectators hissed their disapproval and pelted them with stones and rotten fruit. a roar went up as barsena blackhair strode onto the sands, naked save for breechclout and sandals. a tall, dark woman of some thirty years, she moved with the feral grace of a panther. barsena is much loved, hizdahr said, as the sound swelled to fill the pit. the bravest woman i have ever seen. strong belwas said, fighting girls is not so brave. fighting strong belwas would be brave. today she fights a boar, said hizdahr. aye, thought dany, because you could not find a woman to face her, no matter how plump the purse. and not with a wooden sword, it would seem. the boar was a huge beast, with tusks as long as a man's forearm and small eyes that swam with rage. she wondered whether the boar that had killed robert baratheon had looked as fierce. a terrible creature and a terrible death. for a heartbeat she felt almost sorry for the usurper. barsena is very quick, reznak said. she will dance with the boar, magnificence, and slice him when he passes near her. he will be awash in blood before he falls, you shall see. it began just as he said. the boar charged, barsena spun aside, her blade flashed silver in the sun. she needs a spear, ser barristan said, as barsena vaulted over the beast's second charge. that is no way to fight a boar. he sounded like someone's fussy old grandsire, just as daario was always saying. barsena's blade was running red, but the boar soon stopped. he is smarter than a bull, dany realized. he will not charge again. barsena came to the same realization. shouting, she edged closer to the boar, tossing her knife from hand to hand. when the beast backed away, she cursed and slashed at his snout, trying to provoke him ... and succeeding. this time her leap came an instant too late, and a tusk ripped her left leg open from knee to crotch. a moan went up from thirty thousand throats. clutching at her torn leg, barsena dropped her knife and tried to hobble off, but before she had gone two feet the boar was on her once again. dany turned her face away. was that brave enough? she asked strong belwas, as a scream rang out across the sand. fighting pigs is brave, but it is not brave to scream so loud. it hurts strong belwas in the ears. the eunuch rubbed his swollen stomach, crisscrossed with old white scars. it makes strong belwas sick in his belly too. the boar buried his snout in barsena's belly and began rooting out her entrails. the smell was more than the queen could stand. the heat, the flies, the shouts from the crowd ... / cannot breathe. she lifted her veil and let it flutter away. she took her tokar off as well. the pearls rattled softly against one another as she unwound the silk. khaleesi? irri asked. what are you doing? taking off my floppy ears. a dozen men with boar spears came trotting out onto the sand to drive the boar away from the corpse and back to his pen. the pitmaster was with them, a long barbed whip in his hand. as he snapped it at the boar, the queen rose. ser barristan, will you see me safely back to my garden? hizdahr looked confused. there is more to come. a folly, six old women, and three more matches. belaquo and goghor! belaquo will win, irri declared. it is known. it is not known, jhiqui said. belaquo will die. one will die, or the other will, said dany. and the one who lives will die some other day. this was a mistake. strong belwas ate too many locusts. there was a queasy look on belwas's broad brown face. strong belwas needs milk. hizdahr ignored the eunuch. magnificence, the people of meereen have come to celebrate our union. you heard them cheering you. do not cast away their love. it was my floppy ears they cheered, not me. take me from this abbatoir, husband. she could hear the boar snorting, the shouts of the spear-men, the crack of the pitmaster's whip. sweet lady, no. stay only a while longer. for the folly, and one last match. close your eyes, no one will see. they will be watching belaquo and ghogor. this is no time for— a shadow rippled across his face. the tumult and the shouting died. ten thousand voices stilled. every eye turned skyward. a warm wind brushed dany's cheeks, and above the beating of her heart she heard the sound of wings. two spearmen dashed for shelter. the pitmaster froze where he stood. the boar went snuffling back to barsena. strong belwas gave a moan, stumbled from his seat, and fell to his knees. above them all the dragon turned, dark against the sun. his scales were black, his eyes and horns and spinal plates blood red. ever the largest of her three, in the wild drogon had grown larger still. his wings stretched twenty feet from tip to tip, black as jet. he flapped them once as he swept back above the sands, and the sound was like a clap of thunder. the boar raised his head, snorting ... and flame engulfed him, black fire shot with red. dany felt the wash of heat thirty feet away. the beast's dying scream sounded almost human. drogon landed on the carcass and sank his claws into the smoking flesh. as he began to feed, he made no distinction between barsena and the boar. oh, gods, moaned reznak, he's eating her\ the seneschal covered his mouth. strong belwas was retching noisily. a queer look passed across hizdahr zo loraq's long, pale face— part fear, part lust, part rapture. he licked his lips. dany could see the pahls streaming up the steps, clutching their tokars and tripping over the fringes in their haste to be away. others followed. some ran, shoving at one another. more stayed in their seats. one man took it on himself to be a hero. he was one of the spearmen sent out to drive the boar back to his pen. perhaps he was drunk, or mad. perhaps he had loved barsena blackhair from afar or had heard some whisper of the girl hazzea. perhaps he was just some common man who wanted bards to sing of him. he darted forward, his boar spear in his hands. red sand kicked up beneath his heels, and shouts rang out from the seats. drogon raised his head, blood dripping from his teeth. the hero leapt onto his back and drove the iron spearpoint down at the base of the dragon's long scaled neck. dany and drogon screamed as one. the hero leaned into his spear, using his weight to twist the point in deeper. drogon arched upward with a hiss of pain. his tail lashed sideways. she watched his head crane around at the end of that long serpentine neck, saw his black wings unfold. the dragonslayer lost his footing and went tumbling to the sand. he was trying to struggle back to his feet when the dragon's teeth closed hard around his forearm. no was all the man had time to shout. drogon wrenched his arm from his shoulder and tossed it aside as a dog might toss a rodent in a rat pit. kill it, hizdahr zo loraq shouted to the other spearmen. kill the beast! ser barristan held her tightly. look away, your grace. let me go\ dany twisted from his grasp. the world seemed to slow as she cleared the parapet. when she landed in the pit she lost a sandal. running, she could feel the sand between her toes, hot and rough. ser barristan was calling after her. strong belwas was still vomiting. she ran faster. the spearmen were running too. some were rushing toward the dragon, spears in hand. others were rushing away, throwing down their weapons as they fled. the hero was jerking on the sand, the bright blood pouring from the ragged stump of his shoulder. his spear remained in drogon's back, wobbling as the dragon beat his wings. smoke rose from the wound. as the other spears closed in, the dragon spat fire, bathing two men in black flame. his tail lashed sideways and caught the pitmaster creeping up behind him, breaking him in two. another attacker stabbed at his eyes until the dragon caught him in his jaws and tore his belly out. the meereenese were screaming, cursing, howling. dany could hear someone pounding after her. drogon, she screamed. drogon. his head turned. smoke rose between his teeth. his blood was smoking too, where it dripped upon the ground. he beat his wings again, sending up a choking storm of scarlet sand. dany stumbled into the hot red cloud, coughing. he snapped. no was all that she had time to say. no, not me, don't you know me? the black teeth closed inches from her face. he meant to tear my head off. the sand was in her eyes. she stumbled over the pitmaster's corpse and fell on her backside. drogon roared. the sound filled the pit. a furnace wind engulfed her. the dragon's long scaled neck stretched toward her. when his mouth opened, she could see bits of broken bone and charred flesh between his black teeth. his eyes were molten. / am looking into hell, but i dare not look away. she had never been so certain of anything. /// run from him, he will burn me and devour me. in westerns the septons spoke of seven hells and seven heavens, but the seven kingdoms and their gods were far away. if she died here, dany wondered, would the horse god of the doth raki part the grass and claim her for his starry khalasar, so she might ride the nightlands beside her sun-and-stars? or would the angry gods of ghis send their harpies to seize her soul and drag her down to torment? drogon roared full in her face, his breath hot enough to blister skin. off to her right dany heard barristan selmy shouting, me! try me. over here. me! in the smoldering red pits of drogon's eyes, dany saw her own reflection. how small she looked, how weak and frail and scared. / cannot let him see my fear. she scrabbled in the sand, pushing against the pitmaster's corpse, and her fingers brushed against the handle of his whip. touching it made her feel braver. the leather was warm, alive. drogon roared again, the sound so loud that she almost dropped the whip. his teeth snapped at her. dany hit him. no, she screamed, swinging the lash with all the strength that she had in her. the dragon jerked his head back. no, she screamed again. no! the barbs raked along his snout. drogon rose, his wings covering her in shadow. dany swung the lash at his scaled belly, back and forth until her arm began to ache. his long serpentine neck bent like an archer's bow. with a hisssssss, he spat black fire down at her. dany darted underneath the flames, swinging the whip and shouting, no, no, no. get down! his answering roar was full of fear and fury, full of pain. his wings beat once, twice ... ... and folded. the dragon gave one last hiss and stretched out flat upon his belly. black blood was flowing from the wound where the spear had pierced him, smoking where it dripped onto the scorched sands. he is fire made flesh, she thought, and so am i. daenerys targaryen vaulted onto the dragon's back, seized the spear, and ripped it out. the point was half-melted, the iron red-hot, glowing. she flung it aside. drogon twisted under her, his muscles rippling as he gathered his strength. the air was thick with sand. dany could not see, she could not breathe, she could not think. the black wings cracked like thunder, and suddenly the scarlet sands were falling away beneath her. dizzy, dany closed her eyes. when she opened them again, she glimpsed the meereenese beneath her through a haze of tears and dust, pouring up the steps and out into the streets. the lash was still in her hand. she flicked it against drogon's neck and cried, higher! her other hand clutched at his scales, her fingers scrabbling for purchase. drogon's wide black wings beat the air. dany could feel the heat of him between her thighs. her heart felt as if it were about to burst. yes, she thought, yes, now, now, do it, do it, take me, take me, fly! the hill was a stony island in a sea of green. it took dany half the morning to climb down. by the time she reached the bottom she was winded. her muscles ached, and she felt as if she had the beginnings of a fever. the rocks had scraped her hands raw. they are better than they were, though, she decided as she picked at a broken blister. her skin was pink and tender, and a pale milky fluid was leaking from her cracked palms, but her burns were healing. the hill loomed larger down here. dany had taken to calling it drag-onstone, after the ancient citadel where she'd been born. she had no memories of that dragonstone, but she would not soon forget this one. scrub grass and thorny bushes covered its lower slopes; higher up a jagged tangle of bare rock thrust steep and sudden into the sky. there, amidst broken boulders, razor-sharp ridges, and needle spires, drogon made his lair inside a shallow cave. he had dwelt there for some time, dany had realized when she first saw the hill. the air smelled of ash, every rock and tree in sight was scorched and blackened, the ground strewn with burned and broken bones, yet it had been home to him. dany knew the lure of home. two days ago, climbing on a spire of rock, she had spied water to the south, a slender thread that glittered briefly as the sun was going down. a stream, dany decided. small, but it would lead her to a larger stream, and that stream would flow into some little river, and all the rivers in this part of the world were vassals of the skahazadhan. once she found the skahazadhan she need only follow it downstream to slaver's bay. she would sooner have returned to meereen on dragon's wings, to be sure. but that was a desire drogon did not seem to share. the dragonlords of old valyria had controlled their mounts with binding spells and sorcerous horns. daenerys made do with a word and a whip. mounted on the dragon's back, she oft felt as if she were learning to ride all over again. when she whipped her silver mare on her right flank the mare went left, for a horse's first instinct is to flee from danger. when she laid the whip across drogon's right side he veered right, for a dragon's first instinct is always to attack. sometimes it did not seem to matter where she struck him, though; sometimes he went where he would and took her with him. neither whip nor words could turn drogon if he did not wish to be turned. the whip annoyed him more than it hurt him, she had come to see; his scales had grown harder than horn. and no matter how far the dragon flew each day, come nightfall some instinct drew him home to dragonstone. his home, not mine. her home was back in meereen, with her husband and her lover. that was where she belonged, surely. keep walking. if i look back i am lost. memories walked with her. clouds seen from above. horses small as ants thundering through the grass. a silver moon, almost close enough to touch. rivers running bright and blue below, glimmering in the sun. will i ever see such sights again? on drogon's back she felt whole. up in the sky the woes of this world could not touch her. how could she abandon that? it was time, though. a girl might spend her life at play, but she was a woman grown, a queen, a wife, a mother to thousands. her children had need of her. drogon had bent before the whip, and so must she. she had to don her crown again and return to her ebon bench and the arms of her noble husband. hizdahr, of the tepid kisses. the sun was hot this morning, the sky blue and cloudless. that was good. dany's clothes were hardly more than rags, and offered little in the way of warmth. one of her sandals had slipped off during her wild flight from meereen and she had left the other up by drogon's cave, preferring to go barefoot rather than half-shod. her tokar and veils she had abandoned in the pit, and her linen undertunic had never been made to withstand the hot days and cold nights of the dothraki sea. sweat and grass and dirt had stained it, and dany had torn a strip off the hem to make a bandage for her shin. / must look a ragged thing, and starved, she thought, but if the days stay warm, i will not freeze. hers had been a lonely sojourn, and for most of it she had been hurt and hungry ... yet despite it all she had been strangely happy here. a few aches, an empty belly, chills by night ... what does it matter when you can fly? i would do it all again. jhiqui and irri would be waiting atop her pyramid back in meereen, she told herself. her sweet scribe missandei as well, and all her little pages. they would bring her food, and she could bathe in the pool beneath the persimmon tree. it would be good to feel clean again. dany did not need a glass to know that she was filthy. she was hungry too. one morning she had found some wild onions growing halfway down the south slope, and later that same day a leafy reddish vegetable that might have been some queer sort of cabbage. whatever it was, it had not made her sick. aside from that, and one fish that she had caught in the spring-fed pool outside of drogon's cave, she had survived as best she could on the dragon's leavings, on burned bones and chunks of smoking meat, half-charred and half-raw. she needed more, she knew. one day she kicked at a cracked sheep's skull with the side of a bare foot and sent it bouncing over the edge of the hill. and as she watched it tumbledown the steep slope toward the sea of grass, she realized she must follow. dany set off through the tall grass at a brisk pace. the earth felt warm between her toes. the grass was as tall as she was. it never seemed so high when i was mounted on my silver, riding beside my sun-and-stars at the head of his khalasar. as she walked, she tapped her thigh with the pitmaster's whip. that, and the rags on her back, were all she had taken from meereen. though she walked through a green kingdom, it was not the deep rich green of summer. even here autumn made its presence felt, and winter would not be far behind. the grass was paler than she remembered, a wan and sickly green on the verge of going yellow. after that would come brown. the grass was dying. daenerys targaryen was no stranger to the dothraki sea, the great ocean of grass that stretched from the forest of qohor to the mother of mountains and the womb of the world. she had seen it first when she was still a girl, newly wed to khal drogo and on her way to vaes dothrak to be presented to the crones of the dosh khaleen. the sight of all that grass stretching out before her had taken her breath away. the sky was blue, the grass was green, and i was full of hope. ser jorah had been with her then, her gruff old bear. she'd had irri and jhiqui and doreah to care for her, her sun-and-stars to hold her in the night, his child growing inside her. rhaego. i was going to name him rhaego, and the dosh khaleen said he would be the stallion who mounts the world. not since those half-remembered days in braavos when she lived in the house with the red door had she been as happy. but in the red waste, all her joy had turned to ashes. her sun-and-stars had fallen from his horse, the maegi mirri maz duur had murdered rhaego in her womb, and dany had smothered the empty shell of khal drogo with her own two hands. afterward drogo's great khalasar had shattered. ko pono named himself khal pono and took many riders with him, and many slaves as well. ko jhaqo named himself khal jhaqo and rode off with even more. mago, his bloodrider, raped and murdered eroeh, a girl daenerys had once saved from him. only the birth of her dragons amidst the fire and smoke of khal drogo's funeral pyre had spared dany herself from being dragged back to vaes dothrak to live out the remainder of her days amongst the crones of the dosh khaleen. the fire burned away my hair, but elsewise it did not touch me. it had been the same in daznak's pit. that much she could recall, though much of what followed was a haze. so many people, screaming and shoving. she remembered rearing horses, a food cart spilling melons as it overturned. from below a spear came flying, followed by a flight of crossbow bolts. one passed so close that dany felt it brush her cheek. others skittered off drogon's scales, lodged between them, or tore through the membrane of his wings. she remembered the dragon twisting beneath her, shuddering at the impacts, as she tried desperately to cling to his scaled back. the wounds were smoking. dany saw one of the bolts burst into sudden flame. another fell away, shaken loose by the beating of his wings. below, she saw men whirling, wreathed in flame, hands up in the air as if caught in the throes of some mad dance. a woman in a green tokar reached for a weeping child, pulling him down into her arms to shield him from the flames. dany saw the color vividly, but not the woman's face. people were stepping on her as they lay tangled on the bricks. some were on fire. then all of that had faded, the sounds dwindling, the people shrinking, the spears and arrows falling back beneath them as drogon clawed his way into the sky. up and up and up he'd borne her, high above the pyramids and pits, his wings outstretched to catch the warm air rising from the city's sun baked bricks. if i fall and die, it will still have been worth it, she had thought. north they flew, beyond the river, drogon gliding on torn and tattered wings through clouds that whipped by like the banners of some ghostly army. dany glimpsed the shores of slaver's bay and the old valyrian road that ran beside it through sand and desolation until it vanished in the west. the road home. then there was nothing beneath them but grass rippling in the wind. was that first flight a thousand years ago? sometimes it seemed as if it must be. the sun grew hotter as it rose, and before long her head was pounding. dany's hair was growing out again, but slowly. i need a hat, she said aloud. up on dragonstone she had tried to make one for herself, weaving stalks of grass together as she had seen dothraki women do during her time with drogo, but either she was using the wrong sort of grass or she simply lacked the necessary skill. her hats all fell to pieces in her hands. try again, she told herself. you will do better the next time. you are the blood of the dragon, you can make a hat. she tried and tried, but her last attempt had been no more successful than her first. it was afternoon by the time dany found the stream she had glimpsed atop the hill. it was a rill, a rivulet, a trickle, no wider than her arm ... and her arm had grown thinner every day she spent on dragonstone. dany scooped up a handful of water and splashed it on her face. when she cupped her hands, her knuckles squished in the mud at the bottom of the strea m. she might have wished for colder, clearer water ... but no, if she were going to pin her hopes on wishes, she would wish for rescue. she still clung to the hope that someone would come after her. ser barristan might come seeking her; he was the first of her queensguard, sworn to defend her life with his own. and her bloodriders were no strangers to the dothraki sea, and their lives were bound to her own. her husband, the noble hizdahr zo loraq, might dispatch searchers. and daario ... dany pictured him riding toward her through the tall grass, smiling, his golden tooth gleaming with the last light of the setting sun. only daario had been given to the yunkai'i, a hostage to ensure no harm came to the yunkish captains. daario and hero, jhogo and groleo, and three of hizdahr's kin. by now, surely, all of her hostages would have been released. but ... she wondered if her captain's blades still hung upon the wall beside her bed, waiting for daario to return and claim them. / will leave my girls with you, he had said. keep them safe for me, beloved. and she wondered how much the yunkai'i knew about what her captain meant to her. she had asked ser barristan that question the afternoon the hostages went forth. they will have heard the talk, he had replied. naharis may even have boasted of your grace's ... of your great ... regard ... for him. if you will forgive my saying so, modesty is not one of the captain's virtues. he takes great pride in his ... his swordsmanship. he boasts of bedding me, you mean. but daario would not have been so foolish as to make such a boast amongst her enemies. it makes no matter. by now the yunkai'i will be marching home. that was why she had done all that she had done. for peace. she turned back the way she'd come, to where dragonstone rose above the grasslands like a clenched fist. it looks so close. i've been walking for hours, yet it still looks as if i could reach out and touch it. it was not too late to go back. there were fish in the spring-fed pool by drogon's cave. she had caught one her first day there, she might catch more. and there would be scraps, charred bones with bits of flesh still on them, the remnants of drogon's kills. no, dany told herself. /// look back i am lost. she might live for years amongst the sunbaked rocks of dragonstone, riding drogon by day and gnawing at his leavings every evenfall as the great grass sea turned from gold to orange, but that was not the life she had been born to. so once again she turned her back upon the distant hill and closed her ears to the song of flight and freedom that the wind sang as it played amongst the hill's stony ridges. the stream was trickling south by southeast, as near as she could tell. she followed it. take me to the river, that is all i ask of you. take me to the river, and i will do the rest. the hours passed slowly. the stream bent this way and that, and dany followed, beating time upon her leg with the whip, trying not to think about how far she had to go, or the pounding in her head, or her empty belly. take one step. take the next. another step. another. what else could she do? it was quiet on her sea. when the wind blew the grass would sigh as the stalks brushed against each other, whispering in a tongue that only gods could understand. now and again the little stream would gurgle where it flowed around a stone. mud squished between her toes. insects buzzed around her, lazy dragonflies and glistening green wasps and stinging midges almost too small to see. she swatted at them absently when they landed on her arms. once she came upon a rat drinking from the stream, but it fled when she appeared, scurrying between the stalks to vanish in the high grass. sometimes she heard birds singing. the sound made her belly rumble, but she had no nets to snare them with, and so far she had not come on any nests. once i dreamed of flying, she thought, and now i've flown, and dream of stealing eggs. that made her laugh. men are mad and gods are madder, she told the grass, and the grass murmured its agreement. thrice that day she caught sight of drogon. once he was so far off that he might have been an eagle, slipping in and out of distant clouds, but dany knew the look of him by now, even when he was no more than a speck. the second time he passed before the sun, his black wings spread, and the world darkened. the last time he flew right above her, so close she could hear the sound of his wings. for half a heartbeat dany thought that he was hunting her, but he flew on without taking any notice of her and vanished somewhere in the east. just as well, she thought. evening took her almost unawares. as the sun was gilding the distant spires of dragonstone, dany stumbled onto a low stone wall, overgrown and broken. perhaps it had been part of a temple, or the hall of the village lord. more ruins lay beyond it— an old well, and some circles in the grass that marked the sites where hovels had once stood. they had been built of mud and straw, she judged, but long years of wind and rain had worn them away to nothing. dany found eight before the sun went down, but there might have been more farther out, hidden in the grass. the stone wall had endured better than the rest. though it was nowhere more than three feet high, the angle where it met another, lower wall still offered some shelter from the elements, and night was coming on fast. dany wedged herself into that corner, making a nest of sorts by tearing up handfuls of the grass that grew around the ruins. she was very tired, and fresh blisters had appeared on both her feet, including a matched set upon her pinky toes. it must be from the way i walk, she thought, giggling. as the world darkened, dany settled in and closed her eyes, but sleep refused to come. the night was cold, the ground hard, her belly empty. she found herself thinking of meereen, of daario, her love, and hizdahr, her husband, of irri and jhiqui and sweet missandei, ser barristan and reznak and skahaz shavepate. do they fear me dead? i flew off on a dragon's back. will they think he ate me? she wondered if hizdahr was still king. his crown had come from her, could he hold it in her absence? he wanted drogon dead. i heard him. kill it, he screamed, kill the beast, and the look upon his face was lustful. and strong belwas had been on his knees, heaving and shuddering. poison. it had to be poison. the honeyed locusts. hizdahr urged them on me, but belwas ate them all. she had made hizdahr her king, taken him into her bed, opened the fighting pits for him, he had no reason to want her dead. yet who else could it have been? reznak, her perfumed seneschal? the yunkai'i? the sons of the harpy? off in the distance, a wolf howled. the sound made her feel sad and lonely, but no less hungry. as the moon rose above the grasslands, dany slipped at last into a restless sleep. she dreamed. all her cares fell away from her, and all her pains as well, and she seemed to float upward into the sky. she was flying once again, spinning, laughing, dancing, as the stars wheeled around her and whispered secrets in her ear. to go north, you must journey south. to reach the west, you must go east. to go forward, you must go back. to touch the light you must pass beneath the shadow. quaithe? dany called. where are you, quaithe? then she saw. her mask is made of starlight. remember who you are, daenerys, the stars whispered in a woman's voice. the dragons know. do you? the next morning she woke stiff and sore and aching, with ants crawling on her arms and legs and face. when she realized what they were, she kicked aside the stalks of dry brown grass that had served as her bed and blanket and struggled to her feet. she had bites all over her, little red bumps, itchy and inflamed. where did all the ants come from? dany brushed them from her arms and legs and belly. she ran a hand across her stubbly scalp where her hair had burned away, and felt more ants on her head, and one crawling down the back of her neck. she knocked them off and crushed them under her bare feet. there were so many ... it turned out that their anthill was on the other side of her wall. she wondered how the ants had managed to climb over it and find her. to them these tumbledown stones must loom as huge as the wall of westerns. the biggest wall in all the world, her brother viserys used to say, as proud as if he'd built it himself. viserys told her tales of knights so poor that they had to sleep beneath the ancient hedges that grew along the byways of the seven kingdoms. dany would have given much and more for a nice thick hedge. preferably one without an anthill. the sun was only just coming up. a few bright stars lingered in the cobalt sky. perhaps one of them is khal drogo, sitting on his fiery stallion in the night lands and smiling down on me. dragonstone was still visible above the grasslands. it looks so close. i must be leagues away by now, but it looks as if i could be back in an hour. she wanted to lie back down, close her eyes, and give herself up to sleep. no. i must keep going. the stream. just follow the stream. dany took a moment to make certain of her directions. it would not do to walk the wrong way and lose her stream. my friend, she said aloud. if i stay close to my friend i won't get lost. she would have slept beside the water if she dared, but there were animals who came down to the stream to drink at night. she had seen their tracks. dany would make a poor meal for a wolf or lion, but even a poor meal was better than none. once she was certain which way was south, she counted off her paces. the stream appeared at eight. dany cupped her hands to drink. the water made her belly cramp, but cramps were easier to bear than thirst. she had no other drink but the morning dew that glistened on the tall grass, and no food at all unless she cared to eat the grass. / could try eating ants. the little yellow ones were too small to provide much in the way of nourishment, but there were red ants in the grass, and those were bigger. i am lost at sea, she said as she limped along beside her meandering rivulet, so perhaps i'll find some crabs, or a nice fat fish. her whip slapped softly against her thigh, wap wap wap. one step at a time, and the stream would see her home. just past midday she came upon a bush growing by the stream, its twisted limbs covered with hard green berries. dany squinted at them suspiciously, then plucked one from a branch and nibbled at it. its flesh was tart and chewy, with a bitter aftertaste that seemed familiar to her. in the khalasar, they used berries like these to flavor roasts, she decided. saying it aloud made her more certain of it. her belly rumbled, and dany found herself picking berries with both hands and tossing them into her mouth. an hour later, her stomach began to cramp so badly that she could not go on. she spent the rest of that day retching up green slime. if i stay here, i will die. i may be dying now. would the horse god of the dothraki part the grass and claim her for his starry khalasar, so she might ride the night-lands with khal drogo? in westeros the dead of house targaryen were given to the flames, but who would light her pyre here? my flesh will feed the wolves and carrion crows, she thought sadly, and worms will burrow through my womb. her eyes went back to dragonstone. it looked smaller. she could see smoke rising from its wind-carved summit, miles away. drogon has returned from hunting. sunset found her squatting in the grass, groaning. every stool was looser than the one before, and smelled fouler. by the time the moon came up she was shitting brown water. the more she drank, the more she shat, but the more she shat, the thirstier she grew, and her thirst sent her crawling to the stream to suck up more water. when she closed her eyes at last, dany did not know whether she would be strong enough to open them again. she dreamt of her dead brother. viserys looked just as he had the last time she'd seen him. his mouth was twisted in anguish, his hair was burnt, and his face was black and smoking where the molten gold had run down across his brow and cheeks and into his eyes. you are dead, dany said. murdered. though his lips never moved, somehow she could hear his voice, whispering in her ear. you never mourned me, sister. it is hard to die unmourned. i loved you once. once, he said, so bitterly it made her shudder. you were supposed to be my wife, to bear me children with silver hair and purple eyes, to keep the blood of the dragon pure. i took care of you. i taught you who you were. i fed you. i sold our mother's crown to keep you fed. you hurt me. you frightened me. only when you woke the dragon. i loved you. you sold me. you betrayed me. no. you were the betrayer. you turned against me, against your own blood. they cheated me. your horsey husband and his stinking savages. they were cheats and liars. they promised me a golden crown and gave me this. he touched the molten gold that was creeping down his face, and smoke rose from his finger. you could have had your crown, dany told him. my sun-and-stars would have won it for you if only you had waited. / waited long enough. i waited my whole life. i was their king, their rightful king. they laughed at me. you should have stayed in pentos with magister lllyrio. khal drogo had to present me to the dosh khaleen, but you did not have to ride with us. that was your choice. your mistake. do you want to wake the dragon, you stupid little whore? drogo's khalasar was mine. i bought them from him, a hundred thousand screamers. i paid for them with your maidenhead. you never understood. dothraki do not buy and sell. they give gifts and receive them. if you had waited ... / did wait. for my crown, for my throne, for you. all those years, and all i ever got was a pot of molten gold. why did they give the dragon's eggs to you? they should have been mine. if i'd had a dragon, i would have taught the world the meaning of our words. viserys began to laugh, until his jaw fell away from his face, smoking, and blood and molten gold ran from his mouth. when she woke, gasping, her thighs were slick with blood. for a moment she did not realize what it was. the world had just begun to lighten, and the tall grass rustled softly in the wind. no, please, let me sleep some more. i'm so tired. she tried to burrow back beneath the pile of grass she had torn up when she went to sleep. some of the stalks felt wet. had it rained again? she sat up, afraid that she had soiled herself as she slept. when she brought her fingers to her face, she could smell the blood on them. am i dying? then she saw the pale crescent moon, floating high above the grass, and it came to her that this was no more than her moon blood. if she had not been so sick and scared, that might have come as a relief. instead she began to shiver violently. she rubbed her fingers through the dirt, and grabbed a handful of grass to wipe between her legs. the dragon does not weep. she was bleeding, but it was only woman's blood. the moon is still a crescent, though. how can that be? she tried to remember the last time she had bled. the last full moon? the one before? the one before that? no, it cannot have been so long as that. i am the blood of the dragon, she told the grass, aloud. once, the grass whispered back, until you chained your dragons in the dark. drogon killed a little girl. her name was ... her name ... dany could not recall the child's name. that made her so sad that she would have cried if all her tears had not been burned away. i will never have a little girl. i was the mother of dragons. aye, the grass said, but you turned against your children. her belly was empty, her feet sore and blistered, and it seemed to her that the cramping had grown worse. her guts were full of writhing snakes biting at her bowels. she scooped up a handful of mud and water in trembling hands. by midday the water would be tepid, but in the chill of dawn it was almost cool and helped her keep her eyes open. as she splashed her face, she saw fresh blood on her thighs. the ragged hem of her under-tunic was stained with it. the sight of so much red frightened her. moon blood, it's only my moon blood, but she did not remember ever having such a heavy flow. could it be the water? if it was the water, she was doomed. she had to drink or die of thirst. walk, dany commanded herself. follow the stream and it will take you to the skahazadhan. that's where daario will find you. but it took all her strength just to get back to her feet, and when she did all she could do was stand there, fevered and bleeding. she raised her eyes to the empty blue sky, squinting at the sun. half the morning gone already, she realized, dismayed. she made herself take a step, and then another, and then she was walking once again, following the little stream. the day grew warmer, and the sun beat down upon her head and the burnt remnants of her hair. water splashed against the soles of her feet. she was walking in the stream. how long had she been doing that? the soft brown mud felt good between her toes and helped to soothe her blisters. in the stream or out of it, i must keep walking. water flows downhill. the stream will take me to the river, and the river will take me home. except it wouldn't, not truly. meereen was not her home, and never would be. it was a city of strange men with strange gods and stranger hair, of slavers wrapped in fringed tokars, where grace was earned through whoring, butchery was art, and dog was a delicacy. meereen would always be the harpy's city, and daenerys could not be a harpy. never, said the grass, in the gruff tones of jorah mormont. you were warned, your grace. let this city be, i said. your war is in westerns, i told you. the voice was no more than a whisper, yet somehow dany felt that he was walking just behind her. my bear, she thought, my old sweet bear, who loved me and betrayed me. she had missed him so. she wanted to see his ugly face, to wrap her arms around him and press herself against his chest, but she knew that if she turned around ser jorah would be gone. i am dreaming, she said. a waking dream, a walking dream. i am alone and lost. lost, because you lingered, in a place that you were never meant to be, murmured ser jorah, as softly as the wind. alone, because you sent me from your side. you betrayed me. you informed on me, for gold. for home. home was all i ever wanted. and me. you wanted me. dany had seen it in his eyes. / did, the grass whispered, sadly. you kissed me. i never said you could, but you did. you sold me to my enemies, but you meant it when you kissed me. / gave you good counsel. save your spears and swords for the seven kingdoms, i told you. leave meereen to the meereenese and go west, i said. you would not listen. i had to take meereen or see my children starve along the march. dany could still see the trail of corpses she had left behind her crossing the red waste. it was not a sight she wished to see again. i had to take meereen to feed my people. you took meereen, he told her, yet still you lingered. to be a queen. you are a gueen, her bear said. in westerns. it is such a long way, she complained. i was tired, jorah. i was weary of war. i wanted to rest, to laugh, to plant trees and see them grow. i am only a young girl. no. you are the blood of the dragon. the whispering was growing fainter, as if ser jorah were falling farther behind. dragons plant no trees. remember that. remember who you are, what you were made to be. remember your words. fire and blood, daenerys told the swaying grass. a stone turned under her foot. she stumbled to one knee and cried out in pain, hoping against hope that her bear would gather her up and help her to her feet. when she turned her head to look for him, all she saw was trickling brown water ... and the grass, still moving slightly. the wind, she told herself, the wind shakes the stalks and makes them sway. only no wind was blowing. the sun was overhead, the world still and hot. midges swarmed in the air, and a dragonfly floated over the stream, darting here and there. and the grass was moving when it had no cause to move. she fumbled in the water, found a stone the size of her fist, pulled it from the mud. it was a poor weapon but better than an empty hand. from the corner of her eye dany saw the grass move again, off to her right. the grass swayed and bowed low, as if before a king, but no king appeared to her. the world was green and empty. the world was green and silent. the world was yellow, dying. i should get up, she told herself. / have to walk. i have to follow the stream. through the grass came a soft silvery tinkling. bells, dany thought, smiling, remembering khal drogo, her sunand-stars, and the bells he braided into his hair. when the sun rises in the west and sets in the east, when the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves, when my womb guickens again and i bear a living child, khal drogo will return to me. but none of those things had happened. bells, dany thought again. her bloodriders had found her. aggo, she whispered. jhogo. rakharo. might daario have come with them? the green sea opened. a rider appeared. his braid was black and shiny, his skin as dark as burnished copper, his eyes the shape of bitter almonds. bells sang in his hair. he wore a medallion belt and painted vest, with an arakh on one hip and a whip on the other. a hunting bow and a quiver of arrows were slung from his saddle. one rider, and alone. a scout. he was one who rode before the khalasar to find the game and the good green grass, and sniff out foes wherever they might hide. if he found her there, he would kill her, rape her, or enslave her. at best, he would send her back to the crones of the dosh khaleen, where good khaleesiwere supposed to go when their khals had died. he did not see her, though. the grass concealed her, and he was looking elsewhere. dany followed his eyes, and there the shadow flew, with wings spread wide. the dragon was a mile off, and yet the scout stood frozen until his stallion began to whicker in fear. then he woke as if from a dream, wheeled his mount about, and raced off through the tall grass at a gallop. dany watched him go. when the sound of his hooves had faded away to silence, she began to shout. she called until her voice was hoarse ... and drogon came, snorting plumes of smoke. the grass bowed down before him. dany leapt onto his back. she stank of blood and sweat and fear, but none of that mattered. to go forward i must go back, she said. her bare legs tightened around the dragon's neck. she kicked him, and drogon threw himself into the sky. her whip was gone, so she used her hands and feet and turned him north by east, the way the scout had gone. drogon went willingly enough; perhaps he smelled the rider's fear. in a dozen heartbeats they were past the dothraki, as he galloped far below. to the right and left, dany glimpsed places where the grass was burned and ashen. drogon has come this way before, she realized. like a chain of grey islands, the marks of his hunting dotted the green grass sea. a vast herd of horses appeared below them. there were riders too, a score or more, but they turned and fled at the first sight of the dragon. the horses broke and ran when the shadow fell upon them, racing through the grass until their sides were white with foam, tearing the ground with their hooves ... but as swift as they were, they could not fly. soon one horse began to lag behind the others. the dragon descended on him, roaring, and all at once the poor beast was aflame, yet somehow he kept on running, screaming with every step, until drogon landed on him and broke his back. dany clutched the dragon's neck with all her strength to keep from sliding off. the carcass was too heavy for him to bear back to his lair, so drogon consumed his kill there, tearing at the charred flesh as the grasses burned around them, the air thick with drifting smoke and the smell of burnt horsehair. dany, starved, slid off his back and ate with him, ripping chunks of smoking meat from the dead horse with bare, burned hands. in meereen i was a queen in silk, nibbling on stuffed dates and honeyed lamb, she remembered. what would my noble husband think if he could see me now? hizdahr would be horrified, no doubt. but daario ... daario would laugh, carve off a hunk of horsemeat with his arakh, and squat down to eat beside her. as the western sky turned the color of a blood bruise, she heard the sound of approaching horses. dany rose, wiped her hands on her ragged undertunic, and went to stand beside her dragon. that was how khal jhaqo found her, when half a hundred mounted warriors emerged from the drifting smoke. 