lightning split the northern sky, etching the black tower of the night lamp against the blue-white sky. six heartbeats later came the thunder, like a distant drum. the guards marched davos seaworth across a bridge of black basalt and under an iron portcullis showing signs of rust. beyond lay a deep salt moat and a drawbridge supported by a pair of massive chains. green waters surged below, sending up plumes of spray to smash against the foundations of the castle. then came a second gatehouse, larger than the first, its stones bearded with green algae. davos stumbled across a muddy yard with his hands bound at the wrists. a cold rain stung his eyes. the guards prodded him up the steps, into breakwater's cavernous stone keep. once inside, the captain removed his cloak and hung it from a peg, so as not to leave puddles on the threadbare myrish carpet. davos did the same, fumbling at the clasp with his bound hands. he had not forgotten the courtesies he had learned on dragonstone during his years of service. they found the lord alone in the gloom of his hall, making a supper of beer and bread and sister's stew. twenty iron sconces were mounted along his thick stone walls, but only four held torches, and none of them was lit. two fat tallow candles gave a meagre, flickering light. davos could hear the rain lashing at the walls, and a steady dripping where the roof had sprung a leak. m'lord, said the captain, we found this man in the belly o' the whale, trying to buy his way off island. he had twelve dragons on him, and this thing too. the captain put it on the table by the lord: a wide ribbon of black velvet trimmed with cloth-of-gold, and bearing three seals; a crowned stag stamped in golden beeswax, a flaming heart in red, a hand in white. davos waited wet and dripping, his wrists chafing where the wet rope dug into his skin. one word from this lord and he would soon be hanging from the gallows gate of sisterton, but at least he was out of the rain, with solid stone beneath his feet in place of a heaving deck. he was soaked and sore and haggard, worn thin by grief and betrayal, and sick to death of storms. the lord wiped his mouth with the back of his hand and picked up the ribbon for a closer squint. lightning flashed outside, making the arrow loops blaze blue and white for half a heartbeat. one, two, three, four, davos counted, before the thunder came. when it quieted, he listened to the dripping, and the duller roar beneath his feet, where the waves were smashing against breakwater's huge stone arches and swirling through its dungeons. he might well end up down there, fettered to a wet stone floor and left to drown when the tide came rushing in. no, he tried to tell himself, a smuggler might die that way, but not a king's hand. i'm worth more if he sells me to his gueen. the lord fingered the ribbon, frowning at the seals. he was an ugly man, big and fleshy, with an oarsman's thick shoulders and no neck. coarse grey stubble, going white in patches, covered his cheeks and chin. above a massive shelf of brow he was bald. his nose was lumpy and red with broken veins, his lips thick, and he had a sort of webbing between the three middle fingers of his right hand. davos had heard that some of the lords of the three sisters had webbed hands and feet, but he had always put that down as just another sailor's story. the lord leaned back. cut him free, he said, and peel those gloves off him. i want to see his hands. the captain did as he was told. as he jerked up his captive's maimed left hand the lightning flashed again, throwing the shadow of davos seaworth's shortened fingers across the blunt and brutal face of godric borrell, lord of sweetsister. any man can steal a ribbon, the lord said, but those fingers do not lie. you are the onion knight. i have been called that, my lord. davos was a lord himself, and had been a knight for long years now, but deep down he was still what he had always been, a smuggler of common birth who had bought his knighthood with a hold of onions and salt fish. i have been called worse things too. aye. traitor. rebel. turncloak. he bristled at the last. i have never turned my cloak, my lord. i am a king's man. only if stannis is a king. the lord weighed him with hard black eyes. most knights who land upon my shores seek me in my hall, not in the belly of the whale. a vile smuggler's den, that place. are you returning to your old trade, onion knight? no, my lord. i was looking for passage to white harbor. the king sent me, with a message for its lord. then you are in the wrong place, with the wrong lord. lord godric seemed amused. this is sisterton, on sweetsister. i know it is. there was nothing sweet about sisterton, though. it was a vile town, a sty, small and mean and rank with the odors of pig shit and rotting fish. davos remembered it well from his smuggling days. the three sisters had been a favorite haunt of smugglers for hundreds of years, and a pirate's nest before that. sisterton's streets were mud and planks, its houses daub-and-wattle hovels roofed with straw, and by the gallows gate there were always hanged men with their entrails dangling out. you have friends here, i do not doubt, said the lord. every smuggler has friends on the sisters. some of them are my friends as well. the ones who aren't, them i hang. i let them strangle slowly, with their guts slapping up against their knees. the hall grew bright again, as lightning lit the windows. two heartbeats later came the thunder. if it is white harbor that you want, why are you in sisterton? what brought you here? a king's command and a friend's betrayal, davos might have said. instead he answered, storms. nine-and-twenty ships had set sail from the wall. if half of them were still afloat, davos would be shocked. black skies, bitter winds, and lashing rains had hounded them all the way down the coast. the galleys oledo and old mother's son had been driven onto the rocks of skagos, the isle of unicorns and cannibals where even the blind bastard had feared to land; the great cog saathos saan had foundered off the grey cliffs. stannis will be paying for them, salladhor saan had fumed. he will be paying for them with good gold, every one. it was as if some angry god was exacting payment for their easy voyage north, when they had ridden a steady southerly from dragonstone to the wall. another gale had ripped away the rigging of the bountiful harvest, forcing salla to have her taken under tow. ten leagues north of widow's watch the seas rose again, slamming the harvest into one of the galleys towing her and sinking both. the rest of the lysene fleet had been scattered across the narrow sea. some would straggle into one port or another. others would never be seen again. salladhor the beggar, that's what your king has made me, salladhor saan complained to davos, as the remnants of his fleet limped across the bite. salladhor the smashed. where are my ships? and my gold, where is all the gold that i was promised? when davos had tried to assure him that he would have his payment, salla had erupted. when, when? on the morrow, on the new moon, when the red comet comes again? he is promising me gold and gems, always promising, but this gold i have not seen. i have his word, he is saying, oh yes, his royal word, he writes it down. can salladhor saan eat the king's word? can he quench his thirst with parchments and waxy seals? can he tumble promises into a feather bed and fuck them till they squeal? davos had tried to persuade him to stay true. if salla abandoned stannis and his cause, he pointed out, he abandoned all hope of collecting the gold that was due him. a victorious king tommen was not like to pay his defeated uncle's debts, after all. salla's only hope was to remain loyal to stannis baratheon until he won the iron throne. elsewise he would never see a groat of his money. he had to be patient. perhaps some lord with honey on his tongue might have swayed the lysene pirate prince, but davos was an onion knight, and his words had only provoked salla to fresh outrage. on dragonstone i was patient, he said, when the red woman burned wooden gods and screaming men. all the long way to the wall i was patient. at eastwatch i was patient ... and cold, so very cold. bah, i say. bah to your patience, and bah to your king. my men are hungry. they are wishing to fuck their wives again, to count their sons, to see the stepstones and the pleasure gardens of lys. ice and storms and empty promises, these they are not wanting. this north is much too cold, and getting colder. / knew the day would come, davos told himself. / was fond of the old rogue, but never so great a fool as to trust him. storms. lord godric said the word as fondly as another man might say his lover's name. storms were sacred on the sisters before the andals came. our gods of old were the lady of the waves and the lord of the skies. they made storms every time they mated. he leaned forward. these kings never bother with the sisters. why should they? we are small and poor. and yet you're here. delivered to me by the storms. delivered to you by a friend, davos thought. lord godric turned to his captain. leave this man with me. he was never here. no, m'lord. never. the captain took his leave, his wet boots leaving damp footprints across the carpet. beneath the floor the sea was rumbling and restless, pounding at the castle's feet. the outer door closed with a sound like distant thunder, and again the lightning came, as if in answer. my lord, said davos, if you would send me on to white harbor, his grace would count it as an act of friendship. i could send you to white harbor, the lord allowed. or i could send you to some cold wet hell. sisterton is hell enough. davos feared the worst. the three sisters were fickle bitches, loyal only to themselves. supposedly they were sworn to the arryns of the vale, but the eyrie's grasp upon the islands was tenuous at best. sunderland would require me to hand you over if he knew of you. borrell did fealty for sweetsister, as longthorpe did for longsister and torrent for littlesister; all were sworn to triston sunderland, the lord of the three sisters. he'd sell you to the queen for a pot of that lannister gold. poor man needs every dragon, with seven sons all determined to be knights. the lord picked up a wooden spoon and attacked his stew again. i used to curse the gods who gave me only daughters until i heard triston bemoaning the cost of destriers. you would be surprised to know how many fish it takes to buy a decent suit of plate and mail. / had seven sons as well, but four are burned and dead. lord sunderland is sworn to the eyrie/' davos said. by rights he should deliver me to lady arryn. he would stand a better chance with her than with the lannisters, he judged. though she had taken no part in the war of the five kings, lysa arryn was a daughter of riverrun, and aunt to the young wolf. lysa arryn's dead, lord godric said, murdered by some singer. lord littlefinger rules the vale now. where are the pirates? when davos did not answer, he rapped his spoon against the table. the lyseni. torrent spied their sails from littlesister, and before him the flints from widow's watch. orange sails, and green, and pink. salladhor saan. where is he? at sea. salla would be sailing around the fingers and down the narrow sea. he was returning to the stepstones with what few ships remained him. perhaps he would acquire a few more along the way, if he came upon some likely merchantmen. a little piracy to help the leagues go by. his grace has sent him south, to trouble the lannisters and their friends. the lie was one he had rehearsed as he rowed toward sisterton through the rain. soon or late the world would learn that salladhor saan had abandoned stannis baratheon, leaving him without a fleet, but they would not hear it from the lips of davos seaworth. lord godric stirred his stew. did that old pirate saan make you swim to shore? i came ashore in an open boat, my lord. salla had waited until the beacon of the night lamp shone off the valyrian's port bow before he put him off. their friendship had been worth that much, at least. the lyseni would gladly have taken him south with him, he avowed, but davos had refused. stannis needed wyman manderly, and had trusted davos to win him. he would not betray that trust, he told salla. bah, the pirate prince replied, he will kill you with these honors, old friend. he will kill you. i have never had a king's hand beneath my roof before, lord godric said. would stannis ransom you, i wonder? would he? stannis had given davos lands and titles and offices, but would he pay good gold to buy back his life? he has no gold. else he'd still have salla. you will find his grace at castle black if my lord would like to ask that of him. borrell grunted. is the imp at castle black as well? the imp? davos did not understand the question. he is at king's landing, condemned to die for the murder of his nephew. the wall is the last to learn, my father used to say. the dwarf's escaped. he twisted through the bars of his cell and tore his own father apart with his bare hands. a guardsman saw him flee, red from head to heel, as if he'd bathed in blood. the queen will make a lord of any man who kills him. davos struggled to believe what he was hearing. you are telling me that tywin lannister is dead? at his son's hand, aye. the lord took a drink of beer. when there were kings on the sisters, we did not suffer dwarfs to live. we cast them all into the sea, as an offering to the gods. the septons made us stop that. a pack of pious fools. why would the gods give a man such a shape but to mark him as a monster? lord tywin dead. this changes all. my lord, will you grant me leave to send a raven to the wall? his grace will want to know of lord tywin's death. he'll know. but not from me. nor you, so long as you are here beneath my leaky roof. i'll not have it said that i gave stannis aid and counsel. the sunderlands dragged the sisters into two of the blackfyre rebellions, and we all suffered grievously for that. lord godric waved his spoon toward a chair. sit. before you fall, ser. my hall is cold and damp and dark, but not without some courtesy. we'll find dry clothes for you, but first you'll eat. he shouted, and a woman entered the hall. we have a guest to feed. bring beer and bread and sister's stew. the beer was brown, the bread black, the stew a creamy white. she served it in a trencher hollowed out of a stale loaf. it was thick with leeks, carrots, barley, and turnips white and yellow, along with clams and chunks of cod and crabmeat, swimming in a stock of heavy cream and butter. it was the sort of stew that warmed a man right down to his bones, just the thing for a wet, cold night. davos spooned it up gratefully. you have tasted sister's stew before? i have, my lord. the same stew was served all over the three sisters, in every inn and tavern. this is better than what you've had before. gella makes it. my daughter's daughter. are you married, onion knight? i am, my lord. a pity. gella's not. homely women make the best wives. there's three kinds of crabs in there. red crabs and spider crabs and conquerors. i won't eat spider crab, except in sister's stew. makes me feel half a cannibal. his lordship gestured at the banner hanging above the cold black hearth. a spider crab was embroidered there, white on a grey-green field. we heard tales that stannis burned his hand. the hand who went before me. melisandre had given alester florent to her god on dragonstone, to conjure up the wind that bore them north. lord florent had been strong and silent as the queen's men bound him to the post, as dignified as any half-naked man could hope to be, but as the flames licked up his legs he had begun to scream, and his screams had blown them all the way to eastwatch-by-the-sea, if the red woman could be believed. davos had misliked that wind. it had seemed to him to smell of burning flesh, and the sound of it was anguished as it played amongst the lines. it could as easily have been me. i did not burn, he assured lord godric, though eastwatch almost froze me. the wall will do that. the woman brought them a fresh loaf of bread, still hot from the oven. when davos saw her hand, he stared. lord godric did not fail to make note of it. aye, she has the mark. like all borrells, for five thousand years. my daughter's daughter. not the one who makes the stew. he tore the bread apart and offered half to davos. eat. it's good. it was, though any stale crust would have tasted just as fine to davos; it meant he was a guest here, for this one night at least. the lords of the three sisters had a black repute, and none more so than godric borrell, lord of sweetsister, shield of sisterton, master of breakwater castle, and keeper of the night lamp ... but even robber lords and wreckers were bound by the ancient laws of hospitality. / will see the dawn, at least, davos told himself. / have eaten of his bread and salt. though there were stranger spices than salt in this sister's stew. is it saffron that i'm tasting? saffron was worth more than gold. davos had only tasted it once before, when king robert had sent a half a fish to him at a feast on dragonstone. aye. from qarth. there's pepper too. lord godric took a pinch between his thumb and forefinger and sprinkled his own trencher. cracked black pepper from volantis, nothing finer. take as much as you require if you're feeling peppery. i've got forty chests of it. not to mention cloves and nutmeg, and a pound of saffron. took it off a sloe-eyed maid. he laughed. he still had all his teeth, davos saw, though most of them were yellow and one on the top was black and dead. she was making for braavos, but a gale swept her into the bite and she smashed up against some of my rocks. so you see, you are not the only gift the storms have brought me. the sea's a treacherous cruel thing. not as treacherous as men, thought davos. lord godric's forebears had been pirate kings until the starks came down on them with fire and sword. these days the sistermen left open piracy to salladhor saan and his ilk and confined themselves to wrecking. the beacons that burned along the shores of the three sisters were supposed to warn of shoals and reefs and rocks and lead the way to safety, but on stormy nights and foggy ones, some sistermen would use false lights to draw unwary captains to their doom. the storms did you a kindness, blowing you to my door, lord godric said. you'd have found a cold welcome in white harbor. you come too late, ser. lord wyman means to bend his knee, and not to stannis. he took a swallow of his beer. the manderlys are no northmen, not down deep.'twas no more than nine hundred years ago when they came north, laden down with all their gold and gods. they'd been great lords on the mander until they overreached themselves and the green hands slapped them down. the wolf king took their gold, but he gave them land and let them keep their gods. he mopped at his stew with a chunk of bread. if stannis thinks the fat man will ride the stag, he's wrong. the lionstar put in at sisterton twelve days ago to fill her water casks. do you know her? crimson sails and a gold lion on her prow. and full of freys, making for white harbor. freys? that was the last thing that davos would have expected. the freys killed lord wyman's son, we heard. aye, lord godric said, and the fat man was so wroth that he took a vow to live on bread and wine till he had his vengeance. but before the day was out, he was stuffing clams and cakes into his mouth again. there's ships that go between the sisters and white harbor all the time. we sell them crabs and fish and goat cheese, they sell us wood and wool and hides. from all i hear, his lordship's fatter than ever. so much for vows. words are wind, and the wind from manderly's mouth means no more than the wind escaping out his bottom. the lord tore off another chunk of bread to swipe out his trencher. the freys were bringing the fat fool a bag of bones. some call that courtesy, to bring a man his dead son's bones. had it been my son, i would have returned the courtesy and thanked the freys before i hanged them, but the fat man's too noble for that. he stuffed the bread into his mouth, chewed, swallowed. i had the freys to supper. one sat just where you're sitting now. rhaegar, he named himself. i almost laughed right in his face. he'd lost his wife, he said, but he meant to get himself a new one in white harbor. ravens have been flying back and forth. lord wyman and lord walder have made a pact, and mean to seal it with a marriage. davos felt as though the lord had punched him in the belly. if he tells it true, my king is lost. stannis baratheon had desperate need of white harbor. if winterfell was the heart of the north, white harbor was its mouth. its firth had remained free of ice even in the depths of winter for centuries. with winter coming on, that could mean much and more. so could the city's silver. the lannisters had all the gold of easterly rock, and had wed the wealth of highgarden. king stannis's coffers were exhausted. / must try, at least. there may be some way that i can stop this marriage. i have to reach white harbor, he said. your lordship, i beg you, help me. lord godric began to eat his trencher, tearing it apart in his big hands. the stew had softened the stale bread. i have no love for northmen, he announced. the maesters say the rape of the three sisters was two thousand years ago, but sisterton has not forgotten. we were a free people before that, with our kings ruling over us. afterward, we had to bend our knees to the eyrie to get the northmen out. the wolf and the falcon fought over us for a thousand years, till between the two of them they had gnawed all the fat and flesh off the bones of these poor islands. as for your king stannis, when he was robert's master of ships he sent a fleet into my port without my leave and made me hang a dozen fine friends. men like you. he went so far as to threaten to hang me if it should happen that some ship went aground because the night lamp had gone black. i had to eat his arrogance. he ate some of the trencher. now he comes north humbled, with his tail between his legs. why should i give him any aid? answer me that. because he is your rightful king, davos thought. because he is a strong man and a just one, the only man who can restore the realm and defend it against the peril that gathers in the north. because he has a magic sword that glows with the light of the sun. the words caught in his throat. none of them would sway the lord of sweetsister. none of them would get him a foot closer to white harbor. what answer does he want? must i promise him gold we do not have? a highborn husband for his daughter's daughter? lands, honors, titles? lord alester florent had tried to play that game, and the king had burned him for it. the hand has lost his tongue, it seems. he has no taste for sister's stew, or truth. lord godric wiped his mouth. the lion is dead, said davos, slowly. there's your truth, my lord. tywin lannister is dead. what if he is? who rules now in king's landing? not tommen, he is just a child. is it ser kevan? candlelight gleamed in lord godric's black eyes. if it were, you'd be in chains. it's the queen who rules. davos understood. he nurses doubts. he does not want to find himself upon the losing side. stannis held storm's end against the tyrells and the redwynes. he took dragonstone from the last targaryens. he smashed the iron fleet off fair isle. this child king will not prevail against him. this child king commands the wealth of easterly rock and the power of highgarden. he has the boltons and the freys. lord godric rubbed his chin. still ... in this world only winter is certain. ned stark told my father that, here in this very hall. ned stark was here? at the dawn of robert's rebellion. the mad king had sent to the eyrie for stark's head, but jon arryn sent him back defiance. gulltown stayed loyal to the throne, though. to get home and call his banners, stark had to cross the mountains to the fingers and find a fisherman to carry him across the bite. a storm caught them on the way. the fisherman drowned, but his daughter got stark to the sisters before the boat went down. they say he left her with a bag of silver and a bastard in her belly. jon snow, she named him, after arryn. be that as it may. my father sat where i sit now when lord eddard came to sisterton. our maester urged us to send stark's head to aerys, to prove our loyalty. it would have meant a rich reward. the mad king was open-handed with them as pleased him. by then we knew that jon arryn had taken gulltown, though. robert was the first man to gain the wall, and slew marq grafton with his own hand. 'this baratheon is fearless,' i said.'he fights the way a king should fight.' our maester chuckled at me and told us that prince rhaegar was certain to defeat this rebel. that was when stark said,'in this world only winter is certain. we may lose our heads, it's true ... but what if we prevail?' my father sent him on his way with his head still on his shoulders.'if you lose,' he told lord eddard,'you were never here.'  no more than i was, said davos seaworth. the merry midwife stole into white harbor on the evening tide, her patched sail rippling with every gust of wind. she was an old cog, and even in her youth no one had ever called her pretty. her figurehead showed a laughing woman holding an infant by one foot, but the woman's cheeks and the babe's bottom were both pocked by wormholes. uncounted layers of drab brown paint covered her hull; her sails were grey and tattered. she was not a ship to draw a second glance, unless it was to wonder how she stayed afloat. the merry midwife was known in white harbor too. for years she had plied a humble trade between there and sisterton. it was not the sort of arrival that davos seaworth had anticipated when he'd set sail with salla and his fleet. all this had seemed simpler then. the ravens had not brought king stannis the allegiance of white harbor, so his grace would send an envoy to treat with lord manderly in person. as a show of strength, davos would arrive aboard salla'sgalleas valyrian, with the rest of the lysene fleet behind her. every hull was striped: black and yellow, pink and blue, green and white, purple and gold. the lyseni loved bright hues, and salladhor saan was the most colorful of all. salladhor the splendid, davos thought, but the storms wrote an end to all of that. instead he would smuggle himself into the city, as he might have done twenty years before. until he knew how matters stood here, it was more prudent to play the common sailor, not the lord. white harbor's walls of whitewashed stone rose before them, on the eastern shore where the white knife plunged into the firth. some of the city's defenses had been strengthened since the last time davos had been here, half a dozen years before. the jetty that divided the inner and outer harbors had been fortified with a long stone wall, thirty feet tall and almost a mile long, with towers every hundred yards. there was smoke rising from seal rock as well, where once there had been only ruins. that could be good or bad, depending on what side lord wyman chooses. davos had always been fond of this city, since first he'd come here as a cabin boy on cobblecat. though small compared to oldtown and king's landing, it was clean and well-ordered, with wide straight cobbled streets that made it easy for a man to find his way. the houses were built of whitewashed stone, with steeply pitched roofs of dark grey slate. roro uhoris, the cobblecat's cranky old master, used to claim that he could tell one port from another just by the way they smelled. cities were like women, he insisted; each one had its own unique scent. oldtown was as flowery as a perfumed dowager. lannisport was a milkmaid, fresh and earthy, with woodsmoke in her hair. king's landing reeked like some unwashed whore. but white harbor's scent was sharp and salty, and a little fishy too. she smells the way a mermaid ought to smell, roro said. she smells of the sea. she still does, thought davos, but he could smell the peat smoke drifting off seal rock too. the sea stone dominated the approaches to the outer harbor, a massive grey-green upthrust looming fifty feet above the waters. its top was crowned with a circle of weathered stones, a ringfort of the first men that had stood desolate and abandoned for hundreds of years. it was not abandoned now. davos could see scorpions and spitfires behind the standing stones, and crossbowmen peering between them. it must be cold up there, and wet. on all his previous visits, seals could be seen basking on the broken rocks below. the blind bastard always made him count them whenever the cobblecat set sail from white harbor; the more seals there were, roro said, the more luck they would have on their voyage. there were no seals now. the smoke and the soldiers had frightened them away. a wiser man would see a caution in that. if i had a thimble full of sense, i would have gone with salla. he could have made his way back south, to marya and their sons. / have lost four sons in the king's service, and my fifth serves as his sguire. i should have the right to cherish the two boys who still remain. it has been too long since i saw them. at eastwatch, the black brothers told him there was no love between the manderlys of white harbor and the boltons of the dreadfort. the iron throne had raised roose bolton up to warden of the north, so it stood to reason that wyman manderly should declare for stannis. white harbor cannot stand alone. the city needs an ally, a protector. lord wyman needs king stannis as much as stannis needs him. or so it seemed at eastwatch. sisterton had undermined those hopes. if lord borrell told it true, if the manderlys meant to join their strength to the boltons and the freys ... no, he would not dwell on that. he would know the truth soon enough. he prayed he had not come too late. that jetty wall conceals the inner harbor, he realized, as the merry midwife was pulling down her sail. the outer harbor was larger, but the inner harbor offered better anchorage, sheltered by the city wall on one side and the looming mass of the wolf's den on another, and now by the jetty wall as well. at eastwatch-by-the-sea, cotter pyke told davos that lord wyman was building war galleys. there could have been a score of ships concealed behind those walls, waiting only a command to put to sea. behind the city's thick white walls, the new castle rose proud and pale upon its hill. davos could see the domed roof of the sept of the snows as well, surmounted by tall statues of the seven. the manderlys had brought the faith north with them when they were driven from the reach. white harbor had its godswood too, a brooding tangle of root and branch and stone locked away behind the crumbling black walls of the wolf's den, an ancient fortress that served only as a prison now. but for the most part the septons ruled here. the merman of house manderly was everywhere in evidence, flying from the towers of the new castle, above the seal gate, and along the city walls. at eastwatch, the northmen insisted that white harbor would never abandon its allegiance to winterfell, but davos saw no sign of the direwolf of stark. there are no lions either. lord wyman cannot have declared for tommen yet, or he would have raised his standard. the dockside wharves were swarming. a clutter of small boats were tied up along the fish market, off-loading their catches. he saw three river runners too, long lean boats built tough to brave the swift currents and rocky shoots of the white knife. it was the seagoing vessels that interested him most, however; a pair of carracks as drab and tattered as the merry midwife, the trading galley storm dancer, the cogs brave magister and horn of plenty, a galleas from braavos marked by her purple hull and sails ... ... and there beyond, the warship. the sight of her sent a knife through his hopes. her hull was black and gold, her figurehead a lion with an upraised paw. lionstar, read the letters on her stern, beneath a fluttering banner that bore the arms of the boy king on the iron throne. a year ago, he would not have been able to read them, but maester pylos had taught him some of the letters back on drag-onstone. for once, the reading gave him little pleasure. davos had been praying that the galley had been lost in the same storms that had ravaged salla's fleet, but the gods had not been so kind. the freys were here, and he would need to face them. the merry midwife tied up to the end of a weathered wooden pier in the outer harbor, well away from lionstar. as her crew made her fast to the pilings and lowered a gangplank, her captain sauntered up to davos. casso mogat was a mongrel of the narrow sea, fathered on a sisterton whore by an ibbenese whaler. only five feet tall and very hirsute, he dyed his hair and whiskers a mossy green. it made him look like a tree stump in yellow boots. despite his appearance, he seemed a good sailor, though a hard master to his crew. how long will you be gone? a day at least. it may be longer. davos had found that lords liked to keep you waiting. they did it to make you anxious, he suspected, and to demonstrate their power. the midwife will linger here three days. no longer. they will look for me back in sisterton. if things go well, i could be back by the morrow. and if these things go badly? / may not be back at all. you need not wait for me. a pair of customs men were clambering aboard as he went down the gangplank, but neither gave him so much as a glance. they were there to see the captain and inspect the hold; common seamen did not concern them, and few men looked as common as davos. he was of middling height, his shrewd peasant's face weathered by wind and sun, his grizzled beard and brown hair well salted with grey. his garb was plain as well: old boots, brown breeches and blue tunic, a woolen mantle of undyed wool, fastened with a wooden clasp. he wore a pair of salt-stained leather gloves to hide the stubby fingers of the hand that stannis had shortened, so many years ago. davos hardly looked a lord, much less a king's hand. that was all to the good until he knew how matters stood here. he made his way along the wharf and through the fish market. the brave magister was taking on some mead. the casks stood four high along the pier. behind one stack he glimpsed three sailors throwing dice. farther on the fishwives were crying the day's catch, and a boy was beating time on a drum as a shabby old bear danced in a circle for a ring of river runners. two spearmen had been posted at the seal gate, with the badge of house manderly upon their breasts, but they were too intent on flirting with a dockside whore to pay davos any mind. the gate was open, the portcullis raised. he joined the traffic passing through. inside was a cobbled square with a fountain at its center. a stone merman rose from its waters, twenty feet tall from tail to crown. his curly beard was green and white with lichen, and one of the prongs of his trident had broken off before davos had been born, yet somehow he still managed to impress. old fishfoot was what the locals called him. the square was named for some dead lord, but no one ever called it anything but fishfoot yard. the yard was teeming this afternoon. a woman was washing her small-clothes in fishfoot's fountain and hanging them off his trident to dry. beneath the arches of the peddler's colonnade the scribes and money changers had set up for business, along with a hedge wizard, an herb woman, and a very bad juggler. a man was selling apples from a barrow, and a woman was offering herring with chopped onions. chickens and children were everywhere underfoot. the huge oak-and-iron doors of the old mint had always been closed when davos had been in fishfoot yard before, but today they stood open. inside he glimpsed hundreds of women, children, and old men, huddled on the floor on piles of furs. some had little cookfires going. davos stopped beneath the colonnade and traded a halfpenny for an apple. are people living in the old mint? he asked the apple seller. them as have no other place to live. smallfolk from up the white knife, most o' them. hornwood's people too. with that bastard o' bolton running loose, they all want to be inside the walls. i don't know what his lordship means to do with all o' them. most turned up with no more'n the rags on their backs. davos felt a pang of guilt. they came here for refuge, to a city untouched by the fighting, and here i turn up to drag them back into the war. he took a bite of the apple and felt guilty about that as well. how do they eat? the apple seller shrugged. some beg. some steal. lots o' young girls taking up the trade, the way girls always do when it's all they got to sell. any boy stands five feet tall can find a place in his lordship's barracks, long as he can hold a spear. he's raising men, then. that might be good ... or bad, depending. the apple was dry and mealy, but davos made himself take another bite. does lord wyman mean to join the bastard? well, said the apple seller, the next time his lordship comes down here hunkering for an apple, i'll be sure and ask him. i heard his daughter was to wed some frey. his granddaughter. i heard that too, but his lordship forgot t' invite me to the wedding. here, you going to finish that? i'll take the rest back. them seeds is good. davos tossed him back the core. a bad apple, but it was worth half a penny to learn that manderlyis raising men. he made his way around old fishfoot, past where a young girl was selling cups of fresh milk from her nanny goat. he was remembering more of the city now that he was here. down past where old fishfoot's trident pointed was an alley where they sold fried cod, crisp and golden brown outside and flaky white within. over there was a brothel, cleaner than most, where a sailor could enjoy a woman without fear of being robbed or killed. off the other way, in one of those houses that clung to the walls of the wolf's den like barnacles to an old hull, there used to be a brewhouse where they made a black beer so thick and tasty that a cask of it could fetch as much as arbor gold in braavos and the port of ibben, provided the locals left the brewer any to sell. it was wine he wanted, though— sour, dark, and dismal. he strolled across the yard and down a flight of steps, to a winesink called the lazy eel, underneath a warehouse full of sheepskins. back in his smuggling days, the eel had been renowned for offering the oldest whores and vilest wine in white harbor, along with meat pies full of lard and gristle that were inedible on their best days and poisonous on their worst. with fare like that, most locals shunned the place, leaving it for sailors who did not know any better. you never saw a city guardsman down in the lazy eel, or a customs officer. some things never change. inside the eel, time stood still. the barrel-vaulted ceiling was stained black with soot, the floor was hard-packed earth, the air smelled of smoke and spoiled meat and stale vomit. the fat tallow candles on the tables gave off more smoke than light, and the wine that davos ordered looked more brown than red in the gloom. four whores were seated near the door, drinking. one gave him a hopeful smile as he entered. when davos shook his head, the woman said something that made her companions laugh. after that none of them paid him any mind. aside from the whores and the proprietor, davos had the eel to himself. the cellar was large, full of nooks and shadowed alcoves where a man could be alone. he took his wine to one of them and sat with his back to a wall to wait. before long, he found himself staring at the hearth. the red woman could see the future in the fire, but all that davos seaworth ever saw were the shadows of the past: the burning ships, the fiery chain, the green shadows flashing across the belly of the clouds, the red keep brooding overall. davos was a simple man, raised up by chance and war and stannis. he did not understand why the gods would take four lads as young and strong as his sons, yet spare their weary father. some nights he thought he had been left to rescue edric storm ... but by now king robert's bastard boy was safe in the stepstones, yet davos still remained. do the gods have some other task for me? he wondered. if so. white harbor may be some part of it. he tried the wine, then poured half his cup onto the floor beside his foot. as dusk fell outside, the benches at the eel began to fill with sailors. davos called to the proprietor for another cup. when he brought it, he brought him a candle too. you want food? the man asked. we got meat pies. what kind of meat is in them? the usual kind. it's good. the whores laughed. it's grey, he means, one said. shut your bloody yap. you eat them. i eat all kinds o' shit. don't mean i like it. davos blew the candle out as soon as the proprietor moved off, and sat back in the shadows. seamen were the worst gossips in the world when the wine was flowing, even wine as cheap as this. all he need do was listen. most of what he heard he'd learned in sisterton, from lord godric or the denizens of the belly of the whale. tywin lannister was dead, butchered by his dwarf son; his corpse had stunk so badly that no one had been able to enter the great sept of baelor for days afterward; the lady of the eyrie had been murdered by a singer; littlefinger ruled the vale now, but bronze yohn royce had sworn to bring him down; balon greyjoy had died as well, and his brothers were fighting for the seastone chair; sandor clegane had turned outlaw and was plundering and killing in the lands along the trident; myr and lys and tyrosh were embroiled in another war; a slave revolt was raging in the east. other tidings were of greater interest. robett glover was in the city and had been trying to raise men, with little success. lord manderly had turned a deaf ear to his pleas. white harbor was weary of war, he was reported to have said. that was bad. the ryswells and the dustins had surprised the ironmen on the fever river and put their longships to the torch. that was worse. and now the bastard of bolton was riding south with hother umber to join them for an attack on moat cailin. the whoresbane his own self, claimed a riverman who'd just brought a load of hides and timber down the white knife, with three hundred spear-men and a hundred archers. some hornwood men have joined them, and cerwyns too. that was worst of all. lord wyman best send some men to fight if he knows what's good for him, said the old fellow at the end of the table. lord roose, he's the warden now. white harbor's honor bound to answer his summons. what did any bolton ever know o' honor? said the eel's proprietor as he filled their cups with more brown wine. lord wyman won't go no place. he's too bloody fat. i heard how he was ailing. all he does is sleep and weep, they say. he's too sick to get out o' his bed most days. too fat, you mean. fat or thin's got naught to do with it, said the eel's proprietor. the lions got his son. no one spoke of king stannis. no one even seemed to know that his grace had come north to help defend the wall. wildlings and wights and giants had been all the talk at eastwatch, but here no one seemed to be giving them so much as a thought. davos leaned into the firelight. i thought the freys killed his son. that's what we heard in sisterton. they killed ser wendel, said the proprietor. his bones are resting in the snowy sept with candles all around them, if you want to have a look. ser wylis, though, he's still a captive. worse and worse. he had known that lord wyman had two sons, but he'd thought that both of them were dead. if the iron throne has a hostage ... davos had fathered seven sons himself, and lost four on the blackwater. he knew he would do whatever gods or men required of him to protect the other three. steffon and stannis were thousands of leagues from the fighting and safe from harm, but devan was at castle black, a squire to the king. the king whose cause may rise or fall with white harbor. his fellow drinkers were talking about dragons now. you're bloody mad, said an oarsman off storm dancer. the beggar king's been dead for years. some dothraki horselord cut his head off. so they tell us, said the old fellow. might be they're lying, though. he died half a world away, if he died at all. who's to say? if a king wanted me dead, might be i'd oblige him and pretend to be a corpse. none of us has ever seen his body. i never saw joffrey's corpse, nor robert's, growled the eel's proprietor. maybe they're all alive as well. maybe baelor the blessed's just been having him a little nap all these years. the old fellow made a face. prince viserys weren't the only dragon, were he? are we sure they killed prince rhaegar's son? a babe, he was. wasn't there some princess too? asked a whore. she was the same one who'd said the meat was grey. two, said the old fellow. one was rhaegar's daughter, t'other was his sister. daena, said the riverman. that was the sister. daena of dragon-stone. or was it daera? daena was old king baelor's wife, said the oarsman. i rowed on a ship named for her once. the princess daena. if she was a king's wife, she'd be a queen. baelor never had a queen. he was holy. don't mean he never wed his sister, said the whore. he just never bedded her, is all. when they made him king, he locked her up in a tower. his other sisters too. there was three. daenela, the proprietor said loudly. that was her name. the mad king's daughter, i mean, not baelor's bloody wife. daenerys, davos said. she was named for the daenerys who wed the prince of dome during the reign of daeron the second. i don't know what became of her. i do, said the man who'd started all the talk of dragons, a braavosi oarsman in a somber woolen jack. when we were down to pentos we moored beside a trader called the sloe-eyed maid, and i got to drinking with her captain's steward. he told me a pretty tale about some slip of a girl who come aboard in qarth, to try and book passage back to westerns for her and three dragons. silver hair she had, and purple eyes.'i took her to the captain my own self,' this steward swore to me,'but he wasn't having none of that. there's more profit in cloves and saffron, he tells me, and spices won't set fire to your sails.'  laughter swept the cellar. davos did not join in. he knew what had befallen the sloe-eyed maid. the gods were cruel to let a man sail across half the world, then send him chasing a false light when he was almost home. that captain was a bolder man than me, he thought, as he made his way to the door. one voyage to the east, and a man could live as rich as a lord until the end of his days. when he'd been younger, davos had dreamed of making such voyages himself, but the years went dancing by like moths around a flame, and somehow the time had never been quite right. one day, he told himself. one day when the war is done and king stannis sits the iron throne and has no more need of onion knights. i'll take devan with me. steff and stanny too if they're old enough. we'll see these dragons and all the wonders of the world. outside the wind was gusting, making the flames shiver in the oil lamps that lit the yard. it had grown colder since the sun went down, but davos remembered eastwatch, and how the wind would come screaming off the wall at night, knifing through even the warmest cloak to freeze a man's blood right in his veins. white harbor was a warm bath by comparison. there were other places he might get his ears filled: an inn famous for its lamprey pies, the alehouse where the wool factors and the customs men did their drinking, a mummer's hall where bawdy entertainments could be had for a few pennies. but davos felt that he had heard enough. i've come too late. old instinct made him reach for his chest, where once he'd kept his fingerbones in a little sack on a leather thong. there was nothing there. he had lost his luck in the fires of the blackwater, when he'd lost his ship and sons. what must i do now? he pulled his mantle tighter. do i climb the hill and present myself at the gates of the new castle, to make a futile plea ? return to sisterton ? make my way back to marya and my boys? buy a horse and ride the kingsroad, to tellstannis that he has no friends in white harbor, and no hope? queen selyse had feasted salla and his captains, the night before the fleet had set sail. cotter pyke had joined them, and four other high officers of the night's watch. princess shireen had been allowed to attend as well. as the salmon was being served, ser axell florent had entertained the table with the tale of a targaryen princeling who kept an ape as a pet. this prince liked to dress the creature in his dead son's clothes and pretend he was a child, ser axell claimed, and from time to time he would propose marriages for him. the lords so honored always declined politely, but of course they did decline. even dressed in silk and velvet, an ape remains an ape, ser axell said. a wiser prince would have known that you cannot send an ape to do a man's work. the queen's men laughed, and several grinned at davos. / am no ape, he'd thought. / am as much a lord as you, and a better man. but the memory still stung. the seal gate had been closed for the night. davos would not be able to return to the merry midwife till dawn. he was here for the night. he gazed up at old fishfoot with his broken trident. / have come through rain and wrack and storm. i will not go back without doing what i came for, no matter how hopeless it may seem. he might have lost his fingers and his luck, but he was no ape in velvet. he was a king's hand. castle stair was a street with steps, a broad white stone way that led up from the wolf's den by the water to the new castle on its hill. marble mermaids lit the way as davos climbed, bowls of burning whale oil cradled in their arms. when he reached the top, he turned to look behind him. from here he could see down into the harbors. both of them. behind the jetty wall, the inner harbor was crowded with war galleys. davos counted twenty-three. lord wyman was a fat man, but not an idle one, it seemed. the gates of the new castle had been closed, but a postern opened when he shouted, and a guard emerged to ask his business. davos showed him the black and gold ribbon that bore the royal seals. i need to see lord manderly at once, he said. my business is with him, and him alone. his lordship will hear you now, smuggler. the knight wore silver armor, his greaves and gauntlet inlaid with niello to suggest flowing fronds of seaweed. the helm beneath his arm was the head of the merling king, with a crown of mother-of-pearl and a jutting beard of jet and jade. his own beard was as grey as the winter sea. davos rose. may i know your name, ser? ser marlon manderly. he was a head taller than davos and three stones heavier, with slate-grey eyes and a haughty way of speaking. i have the honor to be lord wyman's cousin and commander of his garrison. follow me. davos had come to white harbor as an envoy, but they had made him a captive. his chambers were large, airy, and handsomely furnished, but there were guards outside his doors. from his window he could see the streets of white harbor beyond the castle walls, but he was not allowed to walk them. he could see the harbor too, and had watched merry midwife make her way down the firth. casso mogat had waited four days instead of three before departing. another fortnight had passed since then. lord manderly's household guard wore cloaks of blue-green wool and carried silver tridents in place of common spears. one went before him, one behind, and one to either side. they walked past the faded banners, broken shields, and rusted swords of a hundred ancient victories, and a score of wooden figures, cracked and worm-riddled, that could only have adorned the prows of ships. two marble mermen flanked his lordship's court, fishfoot's smaller cousins. as the guards threw open the doors, a herald slammed the butt of his staff against an old plank floor. ser davos of house seaworth, he called in a ringing voice. as many times as he had visited white harbor, davos had never set foot inside the new castle, much less the merman's court. its walls and floor and ceiling were made of wooden planks notched cunningly together and decorated with all the creatures of the sea. as they approached the dais, davos trod on painted crabs and clams and starfish, half-hidden amongst twisting black fronds of seaweed and the bones of drowned sailors. on the walls to either side, pale sharks prowled painted blue-green depths, whilst eels and octopods slithered amongst rocks and sunken ships. shoals of herring and great codfish swam between the tall arched windows. higher up, near where the old fishing nets drooped down from the rafters, the surface of the sea had been depicted. to his right a war galley stroked serene against the rising sun; to his left, a battered old cog raced before a storm, her sails in rags. behind the dais a kraken and grey leviathan were locked in battle beneath the painted waves. davos had hoped to speak with wyman manderly alone, but he found a crowded court. along the walls, the women outnumbered the men by five to one; what few males he did see had long grey beards or looked too young to shave. there were septons as well, and holy sisters in white robes and grey. near the top of the hall stood a dozen men in the blue and silver-grey of house frey. their faces had a likeness a blind man could have seen; several wore the badge of the twins, two towers connected by a bridge. davos had learned to read men's faces long before maester pylos had taught him to read words on paper. these freys would gladly see me dead, he realized at a glance. nor did he find any welcome in the pale blue eyes of wyman manderly. his lordship's cushioned throne was wide enough to accommodate three men of common girth, yet manderly threatened to overflow it. his lordship sagged into his seat, his shoulders slumped, his legs splayed, his hands resting on the arms of his throne as if the weight of them were too much to bear. gods be good, thought davos, when he saw lord wyman's face, this man looks half a corpse. his skin was pallid, with an undertone of grey. kings and corpses always draw attendants, the old saying went. so it was with manderly. left of the high seat stood a maester nigh as fat as the lord he served, a rosy-cheeked man with thick lips and a head of golden curls. ser marlon claimed the place of honor at his lordship's right hand. on a cushioned stool at his feet perched a plump pink lady. behind lord wyman stood two younger women, sisters by the look of them. the elder wore her brown hair bound in a long braid. the younger, no more than fifteen, had an even longer braid, dyed a garish green. none chose to honor davos with a name. the maester was the first to speak. you stand before wyman manderly, lord of white harbor and warden of the white knife, shield of the faith, defender of the dispossessed, lord marshal of the mander, a knight of the order of the green hand, he said. in the merman's court, it is customary for vassals and petitioners to kneel. the onion knight would have bent his knee, but a king's hand could not; to do so would suggest that the king he served was less than this fat lord. i have not come as a petitioner, davos replied. i have a string of titles too. lord of the rainwood, admiral of the narrow sea, hand of the king. the plump woman on the stool rolled her eyes. an admiral without ships, a hand without fingers, in service to a king without a throne. is this a knight who comes before us, or the answer to a child's riddle? he is a messenger, good-daughter, lord wyman said, an onion of ill omen. stannis did not like the answer his ravens brought him, so he has sent this ... this smuggler. he squinted at davos through eyes half-buried in rolls of fat. you have visited our city before, i think, taking coin from our pockets and food off our table. how much did you steal from me, i wonder? not enough that you ever missed a meal. i paid for my smuggling at storm's end, my lord. davos pulled off his glove and held up his left hand, with its four shortened fingers. four fingertips, for a lifetime's worth of theft? said the woman on the stool. her hair was yellow, her face round and pink and fleshy. you got off cheaply, onion knight. davos did not deny it. if it please my lord, i would request a privy audience. it did not please the lord. i keep no secrets from my kin, nor from my leal lords and knights, good friends all. my lord, said davos, i would not want my words to be heard by his grace's enemies ... or by your lordship's. stannis may have enemies in this hall. i do not. not even the men who slew your son? davos pointed. these freys were amongst his hosts at the red wedding. one of the freys stepped forward, a knight long and lean of limb, clean-shaved but for a grey mustache as thin as a myrish stiletto. the red wedding was the young wolf's work. he changed into a beast before our eyes and tore out the throat of my cousin jinglebell, a harmless simpleton. he would have slain my lord father too, if ser wendel had not put himself in the way. lord wyman blinked back tears. wendel was always a brave boy. i was not surprised to learn he died a hero. the enormity of the lie made davos gasp. is it your claim that robb stark killed wendel manderly? he asked the frey. and many more. mine own son tytos was amongst them, and my daughter's husband. when stark changed into a wolf, his northmen did the same. the mark of the beast was on them all. wargs birth other wargs with a bite, it is well-known. it was all my brothers and i could do to put them down before they slew us all. the man was smirking as he told the tale. davos wanted to peel his lips off with a knife. ser, may i have your name? ser jared, of house frey. jared of house frey, i name you liar. ser jared seemed amused. some men cry when slicing onions, but i have never had that weakness. steel whispered against leather as he drew his sword. if you are indeed a knight, ser, defend that slander with your body. lord wyman's eyes fluttered open. i'll have no bloodshed in the merman's court. put up your steel, ser jared, else i must ask you to leave my presence. ser jared sheathed his sword. beneath your lordship's roof, your lord-ship's word is law ... but i shall want a reckoning with this onion lord before he leaves this city. blood! howled the woman on the stool. that's what this ill onion wants of us, my lord. see how he stirs up trouble? send him away, i beg you. he wants the blood of your people, the blood of your brave sons. send him away. should the queen hear that you gave audience to this traitor, she may question our own loyalty. she might ... she could ... she ... it will not come to that, good-daughter, lord wyman said. the iron throne shall have no cause to doubt us. davos misliked the sound of that, but he had not come all this way to hold his tongue. the boy on the iron throne is a usurper, he said, and i am no traitor, but the hand of stannis baratheon, the first of his name, the trueborn king of westerns. the fat maester cleared his throat. stannis baratheon was brother to our late king robert, may the father judge him justly. tommen is the issue of robert's body. the laws of succession are clear in such a case. a son must come before a brother. maester theomore speaks truly, said lord wyman. he is wise in all such matters, and has always given me good counsel. a trueborn son comes before a brother, davos agreed, but tommen-called-baratheon is bastard-born, as his brother joffrey was before him. they were sired by the kingslayer, in defiance of all the laws of gods and men. another of the freys spoke up. he speaks treason with his own lips, my lord. stannis took his thieving fingers. you should take his lying tongue. take his head, rather, suggested ser jared. or let him meet me on the field of honor. what would a frey know of honor? davos threw back. four of the freys started forward until lord wyman halted them with an upraised hand. step back, my friends. i will hear him out before i ... before i deal with him. can you offer any proof of this incest, ser? maester theomore asked, folding his soft hands atop his belly. edric storm, thought davos, but i sent him far away across the narrow sea, to keep him safe from melisandre's fires. you have the word of stannis baratheon that all i've said is true. words are wind, said the young woman behind lord wyman's high seat, the handsome one with the long brown braid. and men will lie to get their way, as any maid could tell you. proof requires more than some lord's unsupported word, declared maester theomore. stannis baratheon would not be the first man who ever lied to win a throne. the pink woman pointed a plump finger down at davos. we want no part of any treason, you. we are good people in white harbor, lawful, loyal people. pour no more poison in our ears, or my good-father will send you to the wolf's den. how have i offended this one? might i have the honor of my lady's name? the pink woman gave an angry sniff and let the maester answer. the lady leona is wife to lord wyman's son ser wylis, presently a captive of the lannisters. she speaks from fear. if white harbor should declare for stannis, her husband would answer with his life. how can i ask lord wyman to condemn his son to death? what would i do in his place if devan were a hostage? my lord, said davos, i pray no harm will come to your son, or to any man of white harbor. another lie, said lady leona from her stool. davos thought it best to ignore her. when robb stark took up arms against the bastard joffrey-called-baratheon, white harbor marched with him. lord stark has fallen, but his war goes on. robb stark was my liege lord, said lord wyman. who is this man stannis? why does he trouble us? he never felt the need to journey north before, as best i can recall. yet he turns up now, a beaten cur with his helm in his hand, begging for alms. he came to save the realm, my lord, davos insisted. to defend your lands against the ironborn and the wildlings. next to the high seat, ser marlon manderly gave a snort of disdain. it has been centuries since white harbor has seen any wildlings, and the ironmen have never troubled this coast. does lord stannis propose to defend us from snarks and dragons too? laughter swept the merman's court, but at lord wyman's feet, lady leona began to sob. ironmen from the isles, wildlings from beyond the wall ... and now this traitor lord with his outlaws, rebels, and sorcerers. she pointed a finger at davos. we have heard of your red witch, oh yes. she would turn us against the seven to bow before a fire demon! davos had no love for the red priestess, but he dare not let lady leona go unanswered. lady melisandre is a priestess of the red god. queen selyse has adopted her faith, along with many others, but more of his grace's followers still worship the seven. myself among them. he prayed no one would ask him to explain about the sept at dragonstoneorthegodswood at storm's end. if they ask, i must needs tell them. stannis would not have me lie. the seven defend white harbor, lady leona declared. we do not fear your red queen or her god. let her send what spells she will. the prayers of godly men will shield us against evil. indeed. lord wyman gave lady leona a pat on the shoulder. lord davos, if you are a lord, i know what your so-called king would have of me. steel and silver and a bended knee. he shifted his weight to lean upon an elbow. before he was slain, lord tywin offered white harbor full pardon for our support of the young wolf. he promised that my son would be returned to me once i paid a ransom of three thousand dragons and proved my loyalty beyond a doubt. roose bolton, who is named our warden of the north, requires that i give up my claim to lord horn-wood's lands and castles but swears my other holdings shall remain untouched. walder frey, his good-father, offers one of his daughters to be my wife, and husbands for my son's daughters here behind me. these terms seem generous to me, a good basis for a fair and lasting peace. you would have me spurn them. so i ask you, onion knight— what does lord stannis offer me in return for my allegiance? war and woe and the screams of burning men, davos might have said. the chance to do your duty, he replied instead. that was the answer stannis would have given wyman manderly. the hand should speak with the king's voice. lord wyman sagged back in his chair. duty. i see. white harbor is not strong enough to stand alone. you need his grace as much as he needs you. together you can defeat your common enemies. my lord, said ser marlon, in his ornate silver armor, will you permit me to ask a few questions of lord davos? as you wish, cousin. lord wyman closed his eyes. ser marlon turned to davos. how many northern lords have declared for stannis? tell us that. arnolf karstark has vowed to join his grace. arnolf is no true lord, only a castellan. what castles does lord stannis hold at present, pray? his grace has taken the nightfort for his seat. in the south, he holds storm's end and dragonstone. maester theomore cleared his throat. only for the nonce. storm's end and dragonstone are lightly held and must soon fall. and the nightfort is a haunted ruin, a drear and dreadful place. ser marlon went on. how many men can stannis put into the field, can you tell us that? how many knights ride with him? how many bowmen, how many freeriders, how many men-at-arms? too few, davos knew. stannis had come north with no more than fifteen hundred men ... but if he told them that, his mission here was doomed. he fumbled for words and found none. your silence is all the answer i require, ser. your king brings us only enemies. ser marlon turned to his lord cousin. your lordship asked the onion knight what stannis offers us. let me answer. he offers us defeat and death. he would have you mount a horse of air and give battle with a sword of wind. the fat lord opened his eyes slowly, as if the effort were almost too much for him. my cousin cuts to the bone, as ever. do you have any more to say to me, onion knight, or can we put an end to this mummer's farce? i grow weary of your face. davos felt a stab of despair. his grace should have sent another man, a lord or knight or maester, someone who could speak for him without tripping on his own tongue. death, he heard himself say, there will be death, aye. your lordship lost a son at the red wedding. i lost four upon the blackwater. and why? because the lannisters stole the throne. go to king's landing and look on tommen with your own eyes, if you doubt me. a blind man could see it. what does stannis offer you? vengeance. vengeance for my sons and yours, for your husbands and your fathers and your brothers. vengeance for your murdered lord, your murdered king, your butchered princes. vengeance! yes, piped a girl's voice, thin and high. it belonged to the half-grown child with the blond eyebrows and the long green braid. they killed lord eddard and lady catelyn and king robb, she said. he was our king\ he was brave and good, and the freys murdered him. if lord stannis will avenge him, we should join lord stannis. manderly pulled her close. wylla, every time you open your mouth you make me want to send you to the silent sisters. i only said—  we heard what you said, said the older girl, her sister. a child's foolishness. speak no ill of our friends of frey. one of them will be your lord and husband soon. no, the girl declared, shaking her head. i won't. i won't ever. they killed the king. lord wyman flushed. you will. when the appointed day arrives, you will speak your wedding vows, else you will join the silent sisters and never speak again. the poor girl looked stricken. grandfather, please ... hush, child, said lady leona. you heard your lord grandfather. hush! you know nothing. i know about the promise, insisted the girl. maester theomore, tell them ! a thousand years before the conquest, a promise was made, and oaths were sworn in the wolf's den before the old gods and the new. when we were sore beset and friendless, hounded from our homes and in peril of our lives, the wolves took us in and nourished us and protected us against our enemies. the city is built upon the land they gave us. in return we swore that we should always be their men. stark men ! the maester fingered the chain about his neck. solemn oaths were sworn to the starks of winterfell, aye. but winterfell has fallen and house stark has been extinguished. that's because they killed them all\ another frey spoke up. lord wyman, if i may? wyman manderly gave him a nod. rhaegar. we are always pleased to hear your noble counsel. rhaegar frey acknowledged the compliment with a bow. he was thirty, or nigh unto, round-shouldered and kettle-bellied, but richly dressed in a doublet of soft grey lambswool trimmed in cloth-of-silver. his cloak was cloth-of-silver too, lined with vair and clasped at the collar with a brooch in the shape of the twin towers. lady wylla, he said to the girl with the green braid, loyalty is a virtue. i hope you will be as loyal to little walder when you are joined in wedlock. as to the starks, that house is extinguished only in the male line. lord eddard's sons are dead, but his daughters live, and the younger girl is coming north to wed brave ramsay bolton. ramsay snow, wylla manderly threw back. have it as you will. by any name, he shall soon be wed to arya stark. if you would keep faith with your promise, give him your allegiance, for he shall be your lord of winterfell. he won't ever be my lord ! he made lady hornwood marry him, then shut her in a dungeon and made her eat her fingers. a murmur of assent swept the merman's court. the maid tells it true, declared a stocky man in white and purple, whose cloak was fastened with a pair of crossed bronze keys. roose bolton's cold and cunning, aye, but a man can deal with roose. we've all known worse. but this bastard son of his ... they say he's mad and cruel, a monster. they say? rhaegar frey sported a silky beard and a sardonic smile. his enemies say, aye ... but it was the young wolf who was the monster. more beast than boy, that one, puffed up with pride and bloodlust. and he was faithless, as my lord grandfather learned to his sorrow. he spread his hands. i do not fault white harbor for supporting him. my grandsire made the same grievous mistake. in all the young wolf's battles, white harbor and the twins fought side by side beneath his banners. robb stark betrayed us all. he abandoned the north to the cruel mercies of the ironmen to carve out a fairer kingdom for himself along the trident. then he abandoned the riverlords who had risked much and more for him, breaking his marriage pact with my grandfather to wed the first western wench who caught his eye. the young wolf? he was a vile dog and died like one. the merman's court had grown still. davos could feel the chill in the air. lord wyman was looking down at rhaegar as if he were a roach in need of a hard heel ... yet then, abruptly, he gave a ponderous nod that set his chins to wobbling. a dog, aye. he brought us only grief and death. a vile dog indeed. say on. rhaegar frey went on. grief and death, aye ... and this onion lord will bring you more with his talk of vengeance. open your eyes, as my lord grandsire did. the war of the five kings is all but done. tommen is our king, our only king. we must help him bind up the wounds of this sad war. as robert's trueborn son, the heir of stag and lion, the iron throne is his by rights. wise words, and true, said lord wyman manderly. they weren't. wylla manderly stamped her foot. be quiet, wretched child, scolded lady leona. young girls should be an ornament to the eye, not an ache in the ear. she seized the girl by her braid and pulled her squealing from the hall. there went my only friend in this hall, thought davos. wylla has always been a willful child, her sister said, by way of apology. i fear that she will make a willful wife. rhaegar shrugged. marriage will soften her, i have no doubt. a firm hand and a quiet word. if not, there are the silent sisters. lord wyman shifted in his seat. as for you, onion knight, i have heard sufficient treason for one day. you would have me risk my city for a false king and a false god. you would have me sacrifice my only living son so stannis baratheon can plant his puckered arse upon a throne to which he has no right. i will not do it. not for you. not for your lord. not for any man. the lord of white harbor pushed himself to his feet. the effort brought a red flush to his neck. you are still a smuggler, ser, come to steal my gold and blood. you would take my son's head. i think i shall take yours instead. guards! seize this man! before davos could even think to move, he was surrounded by silver tridents. my lord, he said, i am an envoy. are you? you came sneaking into my city like a smuggler. i say you are no lord, no knight, no envoy, only a thief and a spy, a peddler of lies and treasons. i should tear your tongue out with hot pincers and deliver you to the dreadfort to be flayed. but the mother is merciful, and so am i. he beckoned to ser marlon. cousin, take this creature to the wolf's den and cut off his head and hands. i want them brought to me before i sup. i shall not be able to eat a bite until i see this smuggler's head upon a spike, with an onion shoved between his lying teeth. even in the gloom of the wolf's den, davos seaworth could sense that something was awry this morning. he woke to the sound of voices and crept to the door of his cell, but the wood was too thick and he could not make out the words. dawn had come, but not the porridge garth brought him every morn to break his fast. that made him anxious. all the days were much the same inside the wolf's den, and any change was usually for the worse. this may be the day i die. garth may be sitting with a whetstone even now, to put an edge on lady lu. the onion knight had not forgotten wyman manderly's last words to him. take this creature to the wolf's den and cut off head and hands, the fat lord had commanded. / shall not be able to eat a bite until i see this smuggler's head upon a spike, with an onion shoved between his lying teeth. every night davos went to sleep with those words in his head, and every morn he woke to them. and should he forget, garth was always pleased to remind him. dead man was his name for davos. when he came by in the morning, it was always, here, porridge for the dead man. at night it was, blow out the candle, dead man. once garth brought his ladies by to introduce them to the dead man. the whore don't look like much, he said, fondling a rod of cold black iron, but when i heat her up red-hot and let her touch your cock, you'll cry for mother. and this here's my lady lu. it's her who'll take your head and hands, when lord wyman sends down word. davos had never seen a bigger axe than lady lu, nor one with a sharper edge. garth spent his days honing her, the other keepers said. / will not plead for mercy, davos resolved. he would go to his death a knight, asking only that they take his head before his hands. even garth would not be so cruel as to deny him that, he hoped. the sounds coming through the door were faint and muffled. davos rose and paced his cell. as cells went, it was large and queerly comfortable. he suspected it might once have been some lordling's bedchamber. it was thrice the size of his captain's cabin on black bessa, and even larger than the cabin salladhor saan enjoyed on his valyrian. though its only window had been bricked in years before, one wall still boasted a hearth big enough to hold a kettle, and there was an actual privy built into a corner nook. the floor was made of warped planks full of splinters, and his sleeping pallet smelled of mildew, but those discomforts were mild compared to what davos had expected. the food had come as a surprise as well. in place of gruel and stale bread and rotten meat, the usual dungeon fare, his keepers brought him fresh-caught fish, bread still warm from the oven, spiced mutton, turnips, carrots, even crabs. garth was none too pleased by that. the dead should not eat better than the living, he complained, more than once. davos had furs to keep him warm by night, wood to feed his fire, clean clothing, a greasy tallow candle. when he asked for paper, quill, and ink, therry brought them the next day. when he asked for a book, so he might keep at his reading, therry turned up with the seven-pointed star. for all its comforts, though, his cell remained a cell. its walls were solid stone, so thick that he could hear nothing of the outside world. the door was oak and iron, and his keepers kept it barred. four sets of heavy iron fetters dangled from the ceiling, waiting for the day lord manderly decided to chain him up and give him over to the whore. today may be that day. the next time garth opens my door, it may not be to bring me porridge. his belly was rumbling, a sure sign that the morning was creeping past, and still no sign of food. the worst part is not the dying, it's not knowing when or how. he had seen the inside of a few gaols and dungeons in his smuggling days, but those he'd shared with other prisoners, so there was always someone to talk with, to share your fears and hopes. not here. aside from his keepers, davos seaworth had the wolf's den to himself. he knew there were true dungeons down in the castle cellars— oubliettes and torture chambers and dank pits where huge black rats scrab-bled in the darkness. his gaolers claimed all of them were unoccupied at present. only us here, onion, ser bartimus had told him. he was the chief gaoler, a cadaverous one-legged knight, with a scarred face and a blind eye. when ser bartimus was in his cups (and ser bartimus was in his cups most every day), he liked to boast of how he had saved lord wyman's life at the battle of the trident. the wolf's den was his reward. the rest of us consisted of a cook davos never saw, six guardsmen in the ground-floor barracks, a pair of washerwomen, and the two turnkeys who looked after the prisoner. therry was the young one, the son of one of the washerwomen, a boy of ten-and-four. the old one was garth, huge and bald and taciturn, who wore the same greasy leather jerkin every day and always seemed to have a glower on his face. his years as a smuggler had given davos seaworth a sense of when a man was wrong, and garth was wrong. the onion knight took care to hold his tongue in garth's presence. with therry and ser bartimus he was less reticent. he thanked them for his food, encouraged them to talk about their hopes and histories, answered their questions politely, and never pressed too hard with queries of his own. when he made requests, they were small ones: a basin of water and a bit of soap, a book to read, more candles. most such favors were granted, and davos was duly grateful. neither man would speak about lord manderly or king stannis or the freys, but they would talk of other things. therry wanted to go off to war when he was old enough, to fight in battles and become a knight. he liked to complain about his mother too. she was bedding two of the guardsmen, he confided. the men were on different watches and neither knew about the other, but one day one man or t'other would puzzle it out, and then there would be blood. some nights the boy would even bring a skin of wine to the cell and ask davos about the smuggler's life as they drank. ser bartimus had no interest in the world outside, or indeed anything that had happened since he lost his leg to a riderless horse and a maester's saw. he had come to love the wolf's den, however, and liked nothing more than to talk about its long and bloody history. the den was much older than white harbor, the knight told davos. it had been raised by king jon stark to defend the mouth of the white knife against raiders from the sea. many a younger son of the king in the north had made his seat there, many a brother, many an uncle, many a cousin. some passed the castle to their own sons and grandsons, and offshoot branches of house stark had arisen; the greystarks had lasted the longest, holding the wolf's den for five centuries, until they presumed to join the dreadfort in rebellion against thestarksofwinterfell. after their fall, the castle had passed through many other hands. house flint held it for a century, house locke for almost two. slates, longs, holts, and ashwoods had held sway here, charged by winterfell to keep the river safe. reavers from the three sisters took the castle once, making it their toehold in the north. during the wars between winterfell and the vale, it was besieged by osgood arryn, the old falcon, and burned by his son, the one remembered as the talon. when old king edrick stark had grown too feeble to defend his realm, the wolf's den was captured by slavers from the stepstones. they would brand their captives with hot irons and break them to the whip before shipping them off across the sea, and these same black stone walls bore witness. then a long cruel winter fell, said ser bartimus. the white knife froze hard, and even the firth was icing up. the winds came howling from the north and drove them slavers inside to huddle round their fires, and whilst they warmed themselves the new king come down on them. brandon stark this was, edrick snowbeard's great-grandson, him that men called ice eyes. he took the wolf's den back, stripped the slavers naked, and gave them to the slaves he'd found chained up in the dungeons. it's said they hung their entrails in the branches of the heart tree, as an offering to the gods. the old gods, not these new ones from the south. your seven don't know winter, and winter don't know them. davos could not argue with the truth of that. from what he had seen at eastwatch-by-the-sea, he did not care to know winter either. what gods do you keep? he asked the one-legged knight. the old ones. when ser bartimus grinned, he looked just like a skull. me and mine were here before the manderlys. like as not, my own forebears strung those entrails through the tree. i never knew that northmen made blood sacrifice to their heart trees. there's much and more you southrons do not know about the north, ser bartimus replied. he was not wrong. davos sat beside his candle and looked at the letters he had scratched out word by word during the days of his confinement. / was a better smuggler than a knight, he had written to his wife, a better knight than a king's hand, a better king's hand than a husband. i am so sorry. marya, i have loved you. please forgive the wrongs i did you. should stannis lose his war, our lands will be lost as well. take the boys across the narrow sea to braavos and teach them to think kindly of me, if you would. should stannis gain the iron throne, house seaworth will survive and devon will remain at court. he will help you place the other boys with noble lords, where they can serve as pages and sguires and win their knighthoods. it was the best counsel he had for her, though he wished it sounded wiser. he had written to each of his three surviving sons as well, to help them remember the father who had bought them names with his fingertips. his notes to steffon and young stannis were short and stiff and awkward; if truth be told, he did not know them half as well as he had his older boys, the ones who'd burned or drowned upon the blackwater. to devan he wrote more, telling him how proud he was to see his own son as a king's squire and reminding him that as the eldest it was his duty to protect his lady mother and his younger brothers. tell his grace i did my best, he ended. / am sorry that i failed him. i lost my luck when i lost my finger-bones, the day the river burned below king's landing. davos shuffled through the letters slowly, reading each one over several times, wondering whether he should change a word here or add one there. a man should have more to say when staring at the end of his life, he thought, but the words came hard. / did not do so ill, he tried to tell himself. / rose up from flea bottom to be a king's hand, and i learned to read and write. he was still hunched over the letters when he heard the sound of iron keys rattling on a ring. half a heartbeat later, the door to his cell came swinging open. the man who stepped through the door was not one of his gaolers. he was tall and haggard, with a deeply lined face and a shock of grey-brown hair. alongsword hung from his hip, and his deep-dyed scarlet cloak was fastened at the shoulder with a heavy silver brooch in the shape of a mailed fist. lord seaworth, he said, we do not have much time. please, come with me. davos eyed the stranger warily. the please confused him. men about to lose their heads and hands were not oft accorded such courtesies. who are you? robett glover, if it please, my lord. glover. your seat was deepwood motte. my brother galbart's seat. it was and is, thanks to your king stannis. he has taken deepwood back from the iron bitch who stole it and offers to restore it to its rightful owners. much and more has happened whilst you have been confined within these walls, lord davos. moat cailin has fallen, and roose bolton has returned to the north with ned stark's younger daughter. a host of freys came with him. bolton has sent forth ravens, summoning all the lords of the north to barrowton. he demands homage and hostages ... and witnesses to the wedding of arya stark and his bastard ramsay snow, by which match the boltons mean to lay claim to winterfell. now, will you come with me, or no? what choice do i have, my lord? come with you, or remain with garth and lady lu? who is lady lu? one of the washerwomen? glover was growing impatient. all will be explained if you will come. davos rose to his feet. if i should die, i beseech my lord to see that my letters are delivered. you have my word on that ... though if you die, it will not be at glover's hands, nor lord wyman's. quickly now, with me. glover led him along a darkened hall and down a flight of worn steps. they crossed the castle's godswood, where the heart tree had grown so huge and tangled that it had choked out all the oaks and elms and birch and sent its thick, pale limbs crashing through the walls and windows that looked down on it. its roots were as thick around as a man's waist, its trunk so wide that the face carved into it looked fat and angry. beyond the weir-wood, glover opened a rusted iron gate and paused to light a torch. when it was blazing red and hot, he took davos down more steps into a barrel-vaulted cellar where the weeping walls were crusted white with salt, and seawater sloshed beneath their feet with every step. they passed through several cellars, and rows of small, damp, foul-smelling cells very different from the room where davos had been confined. then there was a blank stone wall that turned when glover pushed on it. beyond was a long narrow tunnel and still more steps. these led up. where are we? asked davos as they climbed. his words echoed faintly though the darkness. the steps beneath the steps. the passage runs beneath the castle stair up to the new castle. a secret way. it would not do for you to be seen, my lord. you are supposed to be dead. porridge for the dead man. davos climbed. they emerged through another wall, but this one was lath and plaster on the far side. the room beyond was snug and warm and comfortably furnished, with a myrish carpet on the floor and beeswax candles burning on a table. davos could hear pipes and fiddles playing, not far away. on the wall hung a sheepskin with a map of the north painted across it in faded colors. beneath the map sat wyman manderly, the colossal lord of white harbor. please sit. lord manderly was richly garbed. his velvet doublet was a soft blue-green, embroidered with golden thread at hem and sleeves and collar. his mantle was ermine, pinned at the shoulder with a golden trident. are you hungry? no, my lord. your gaolers have fed me well. there is wine, if you have a thirst. i will treat with you, my lord. my king commanded that of me. i do not have to drink with you. lord wyman sighed. i have treated you most shamefully, i know. i had my reasons, but ... please, sit and drink, i beg you. drink to my boy's safe return. wylis, my eldest son and heir. he is home. that is the welcoming feast you hear. in the merman's court they are eating lamprey pie and venison with roasted chestnuts. wynafryd is dancing with the frey she is to marry. the other freys are raising cups of wine to toast our friendship. beneath the music, davos could hear the murmur of many voices, the clatter of cups and platters. he said nothing. i have just come from the high table, lord wyman went on. i have eaten too much, as ever, and all white harbor knows my bowels are bad. my friends of frey will not question a lengthy visit to the privy, we hope. he turned his cup over. there. you will drink and i will not. sit. time is short, and there is much we need to say. robett, wine for the hand, if you will be so good. lord davos, you will not know, but you are dead. robett glover filled a wine cup and offered it to davos. he took it, sniffed it, drank. how did i die, if i may ask? by the axe. your head and hands were mounted above the seal gate, with your face turned so your eyes looked out across the harbor. by now you are well rotted, though we dipped your head in tar before we set it upon the spike. carrion crows and seabirds squabbled over your eyes, they say. davos shifted uncomfortably. it was a queer feeling, being dead. if it please my lord, who died in my place? does it matter? you have a common face, lord davos. i hope my saying so does not offend you. the man had your coloring, a nose of the same shape, two ears that were not dissimilar, a long beard that could be trimmed and shaped like yours. you can be sure we tarred him well, and the onion shoved between his teeth served to twist the features. ser bartimus saw that the fingers of his left hand were shortened, the same as yours. the man was a criminal, if that gives you any solace. his dying may accomplish more good than anything he ever did whilst living. my lord, i bear you no ill will. the rancor i showed you in the merman's court was a mummer's farce put on to please our friends of frey. my lord should take up a life of mummery, said davos. you and yours were most convincing. your good-daughter seemed to want me dead most earnestly, and the little girl ... wylla. lord wyman smiled. did you see how brave she was? even when i threatened to have her tongue out, she reminded me of the debt white harbor owes to the starks of winterf ell, a debt that can never be repaid. wylla spoke from the heart, as did lady leona. forgive her if you can, my lord. she is a foolish, frightened woman, and wylis is her life. not every man has it in him to be prince aemon the dragonknight or symeon star-eyes, and not every woman can be as brave as my wylla and her sister wynafryd ... who did know, yet played her own part fearlessly. when treating with liars, even an honest man must lie. i did not dare defy king's landing so long as my last living son remained a captive. lord tywin lannister wrote me himself to say that he had wylis. if i would have him freed unharmed, he told me, i must repent my treason, yield my city, declare my loyalty to the boy king on the iron throne ... and bend my knee to roose bolton, his warden of the north. should i refuse, wylis would die a traitor's death, white harbor would be stormed and sacked, and my people would suffer the same fate as the reynes of castamere. i am fat, and many think that makes me weak and foolish. mayhaps tywin lannister was one such. i sent him back a raven to say that i would bend my knee and open my gates after my son was returned, but not before. there the matter stood when tywin died. afterward the freys turned up with wendel's bones ... to make a peace and seal it with a marriage pact, they claimed, but i was not about to give them what they wanted until i had wylis, safe and whole, and they were not about to give me wylis until i proved my loyalty. your arrival gave me the means to do that. that was the reason for the discourtesy i showed you in the merman's court, and for the head and hands rotting above the seal gate. you took a great risk, my lord, davos said. if the freys had seen through your deception ... i took no risk at all. if any of the freys had taken it upon themselves to climb my gate for a close look at the man with the onion in his mouth, i would have blamed my gaolers for the error and produced you to appease them. davos felt a shiver up his spine. i see. i hope so. you have sons of your own, you said. three, thought davos, though i fathered seven. soon i must return to the feast to toast my friends of frey, manderly continued. they watch me, ser. day and night their eyes are on me, noses sniffing for some whiff of treachery. you saw them, the arrogant ser jared and his nephew rhaegar, that smirking worm who wears a dragon's name. behind them both stands symond, clinking coins. that one has bought and paid for several of my servants and two of my knights. one of his wife's handmaids has found her way into the bed of my own fool. if stannis wonders that my letters say so little, it is because i dare not even trust my maester. theomore is all head and no heart. you heard him in my hall. maesters are supposed to put aside old loyalties when they don their chains, but i cannot forget that theomore was born a lannister of lannisport and claims some distant kinship to the lannisters of easterly rock. foes and false friends are all around me, lord davos. they infest my city like roaches, and at night i feel them crawling over me. the fat man's fingers coiled into a fist, and all his chins trembled. my son wendel came to the twins a guest. he ate lord walder's bread and salt, and hung his sword upon the wall to feast with friends. and they murdered him. murdered, i say, and may the freys choke upon their fables. i drink with jared, jape with symond, promise rhaegar the hand of my own beloved granddaughter ... but never think that means i have forgotten. the north remembers, lord davos. the north remembers, and the mummer's farce is almost done. my son is home. something about the way lord wyman said that chilled davos to the bone. if it is justice that you want, my lord, look to king stannis. no man is more just. robett glover broke in to add, your loyalty does you honor, my lord, but stannis baratheon remains your king, not our own. your own king is dead, davos reminded them, murdered at the red wedding beside lord wyman's son. the young wolf is dead, manderly allowed, but that brave boy was not lord eddard's only son. robett, bring the lad. at once, my lord. glover slipped out the door. the lad? was it possible that one of robb stark's brothers had survived the ruin of winterfell? did manderly have a stark heir hidden away in his castle? a found boy or a feigned boy? the north would rise for either, he suspected ... but stannis baratheon would never make common cause with an imposter. the lad who followed robett glover through the door was not a stark, nor could he ever hope to pass for one. he was older than the young wolf's murdered brothers, fourteen or fifteen by the look of him, and his eyes were older still. beneath a tangle of dark brown hair his face was almost feral, with a wide mouth, sharp nose, and pointed chin. who are you? davos asked. the boy looked to robett glover. he is a mute, but we have been teaching him his letters. he learns quickly. glover drew a dagger from his belt and gave it to the boy. write your name for lord seaworth. there was no parchment in the chamber. the boy carved the letters into a wooden beam in the wall. w ... e ... x. he leaned hard into the x. when he was done he flipped the dagger in the air, caught it, and stood admiring his handiwork. wex is ironborn. he was theon greyjoy's squire. wex was at winterfell. glover sat. how much does lord stannis know of what transpired at winterfell? davos thought back on the tales they'd heard. winterfell was captured by theon greyjoy, who had once been lord stark's ward. he had stark's two young sons put to death and mounted their heads above the castle walls. when the northmen came to oust him, he put the entire castle to sword, down to the last child, before he himself was slain by lord bolton's bastard. not slain, said glover. captured, and carried back to the dreadfort. the bastard has been flaying him. lord wyman nodded. the tale you tell is one we all have heard, as full of lies as a pudding's full of raisins. it was the bastard of bolton who put winterfell to the sword ... ramsay snow, he was called then, before the boy king made him a bolton. snow did not kill them all. he spared the women, roped them together, and marched them to the dreadfort for his sport. his sport? he is a great hunter, said wyman manderly, and women are his favorite prey. he strips them naked and sets them loose in the woods. they have a half day's start before he sets out after them with hounds and horns. from time to time some wench escapes and lives to tell the tale. most are less fortunate. when ramsay catches them he rapes them, flays them, feeds their corpses to his dogs, and brings their skins back to the dreadfort as trophies. if they have given him good sport, he slits their throats before he skins them. elsewise, t'other way around. davos paled. gods be good. how could any man— the evil is in his blood, said robett glover. he is a bastard born of rape. a snow, no matter what the boy king says. was ever snow so black? asked lord wyman. ramsay took lord hornwood's lands by forcibly wedding his widow, then locked her in a tower and forgot her. it is said she ate her own fingers in her extremity ... and the lannister notion of king's justice is to reward her killer with ned stark's little girl. the boltons have always been as cruel as they were cunning, but this one seems a beast in human skin, said glover. the lord of white harbor leaned forward. the freys are no better. they speak of wargs and skinchangers and assert that it was robb stark who slew my wendel. the arrogance of it! they do not expect the north to believe their lies, not truly, but they think we must pretend to believe or die. roose bolton lies about his part in the red wedding, and his bastard lies about the fall of winterfell. and yet so long as they held wylis i had no choice but to eat all this excrement and praise the taste. and now, my lord? asked davos. he had hoped to hear lord wyman say, and now i shall declare for king stannis, but instead the fat man smiled an odd, twinkling smile and said, and now i have a wedding to attend. i am too fat to sit a horse, as any man with eyes can plainly see. as a boy i loved to ride, and as a young man i handled a mount well enough to win some small acclaim in the lists, but those days are done. my body has become a prison more dire than the wolf's den. even so, i must go to winterfell. roose bolton wants me on my knees, and beneath the velvet courtesy he shows the iron mail. i shall go by barge and litter, attended by a hundred knights and my good friends from the twins. the freys came here by sea. they have no horses with them, so i shall present each of them with a palfrey as a guest gift. do hosts still give guest gifts in the south? some do, my lord. on the day their guest departs.' perhaps you understand, then. wyman manderly lurched ponderously to his feet. i have been building warships for more than a year. some you saw, but there are as many more hidden up the white knife. even with the losses i have suffered, i still command more heavy horse than any other lord north of the neck. my walls are strong, and my vaults are full of silver. oldcastleand widow's watch will take their lead from me. my bannermen include a dozen petty lords and a hundred landed knights. i can deliver king stannis the allegiance of all the lands east of the white knife, from widow's watch and ramsgateto thesheepshead hills and the headwaters of the broken branch. all this i pledge to do if you will meet my price. i can bring your terms to the king, but— lord wyman cut him off. if you will meet my price, i said. not stannis. it's not a king i need but a smuggler. robett glover took up the tale. we may never know all that happened at winterfell, when ser rodrik cassel tried to take the castle back from theon greyjoy's ironmen. the bastard of bolton claims that greyjoy murdered ser rodrik during a parley. wex says no. until he learns more letters we will never know half the truth ... but he came to us knowing yes and no, and those can go a long way once you find the right questions. it was the bastard who murdered ser rodrik and the men of winterfell, said lord wyman. he slew greyjoy's ironmen as well. wex saw men cut down trying to yield. when we asked how he escaped, he took a chunk of chalk and drew a tree with a face. davos thought about that. the old gods saved him? after a fashion. he climbed the heart tree and hid himself amongst the leaves. bolton's men searched the godswood twice and killed the men they found there, but none thought to clamber up into the trees. is that how it happened, wex? the boy flipped up glover's dagger, caught it, nodded. glover said, he stayed up in the tree a long time. he slept amongst the branches, not daring to descend. finally he heard voices down beneath him. the voices of the dead, said wyman manderly. wex held up five fingers, tapped each one with the dagger, then folded four away and tapped the last again. six of them, asked davos. there were six. two of them ned stark's murdered sons. how could a mute tell you that? with chalk. he drew two boys ... and two wolves. the lad is ironborn, so he thought it best not to show himself, said glover. he listened. the six did not linger long amongst the ruins of winterfell. four went one way, two another. wex stole after the two, a woman and a boy. he must have stayed downwind, so the wolf would not catch his scent. he knows where they went, lord wyman said. davos understood. you want the boy. roose bolton has lord eddard's daughter. to thwart him white harbor must have ned's son ... and the direwolf. the wolf will prove the boy is who we say he is, should the dreadfort attempt to deny him. that is my price, lord davos. smuggle me back my liege lord, and i will take stannis baratheon as my king. old instinct made davos seaworth reach for his throat. his fingerbones had been his luck, and somehow he felt he would have need of luck to do what wyman manderly was asking of him. the bones were gone, though, so he said, you have better men than me in your service. knights and lords and maesters. why would you need a smuggler? you have ships. ships, lord wyman agreed, but my crews are rivermen, or fisherfolk who have never sailed beyond the bite. for this i must have a man who's sailed in darker waters and knows how to slip past dangers, unseen and unmolested. where is the boy? somehow davos knew he would not like the answer. where is it you want me to go, my lord? robett glover said, wex. show him. the mute flipped the dagger, caught it, then flung it end over end at the sheepskin map that adorned lord wyman's wall. it struck quivering. then he grinned. for half a heartbeat davos considered asking wyman manderly to send him back to the wolf's den, to ser bartimus with his tales and garth with his lethal ladies. in the den even prisoners ate porridge in the morning. but there were other places in this world where men were known to break their fast on human flesh. 