arya's stitches were crooked again. she frowned down at them with dismay and glanced over to where her sister sansa sat among the other girls. sansa's needlework was exquisite. everyone said so. sansa's work is as pretty as she is, septa mordane told their lady mother once. she has such fine, delicate hands. when lady catelyn had asked about arya, the septa had sniffed. arya has the hands of a blacksmith. arya glanced furtively across the room, worried that septa mordane might have read her thoughts, but the septa was paying her no attention today. she was sitting with the princess myrcella, all smiles and admiration. it was not often that the septa was privileged to instruct a royal princess in the womanly arts, as she had said when the queen brought myrcella to join them. arya thought that myrcella's stitches looked a little crooked too, but you would never know it from the way septa mordane was cooing. she studied her own work again, looking for some way to salvage it, then sighed and put down the needle. she looked glumly at her sister. sansa was chatting away happily as she worked. beth cassel, ser rodrik's little girl, was sitting by her feet, listening to every word she said, and jeyne poole was leaning over to whisper something in her ear. what are you talking about? arya asked suddenly. jeyne gave her a startled look, then giggled. sansa looked abashed. beth blushed. no one answered. tell me, arya said. jeyne glanced over to make certain that septa mordane was not listening. myrcella said something then, and the septa laughed along with the rest of the ladies. we were talking about the prince, sansa said, her voice soft as a kiss. arya knew which prince she meant: joffrey, of course. the tall, handsome one. sansa got to sit with him at the feast. arya had to sit with the little fat one. naturally. joffrey likes your sister, jeyne whispered, proud as if she had something to do with it. she was the daughter of winterfeips steward and sansa's dearest friend. he told her she was very beautiful. he's going to marry her, little beth said dreamily, hugging herself. then sansa will be queen of all the realm. sansa had the grace to blush. she blushed prettily. she did everything prettily, arya thought with dull resentment. beth, you shouldn't make up stories, sansa corrected the younger girl, gently stroking her hair to take the harshness out of her words. she looked at arya. what did you think of prince joff, sister? he's very gallant, don't you think? jon says he looks like a girl, arya said. sansa sighed as she stitched. poor jon, she said. he gets jealous because he's a bastard. he's our brother, arya said, much too loudly. her voice cut through the afternoon quiet of the tower room. septa mordane raised her eyes. she had a bony face, sharp eyes, and a thin lipless mouth made for frowning. it was frowning now. what are you talking about, children? our half brother, sansa corrected, soft and precise. she smiled for the septa. arya and i were remarking on how pleased we were to have the princess with us today, she said. septa mordane nodded. indeed. a great honor for us all. princess myrcella smiled uncertainly at the compliment. arya, why aren't you at work? the septa asked. she rose to her feet, starched skirts rustling as she started across the room. let me see your stitches. arya wanted to scream. it was just like sansa to go and attract the septa's attention. here, she said, surrendering up her work. the septa examined the fabric. arya, arya, arya, she said. this will not do. this will not do at all. everyone was looking at her. it was too much. sansa was too well bred to smile at her sister's disgrace, but jeyne was smirking on her behalf. even princess myrcella looked sorry for her. arya felt tears filling her eyes. she pushed herself out of her chair and bolted for the door. septa mordane called after her. arya, come back here! don't you take another step! your lady mother will hear of this. in front of our royal princess too! you'll shame us all! arya stopped at the door and turned back, biting her lip. the tears were running down her cheeks now. she managed a stiff little bow to myrcella. by your leave, my lady. myrcella blinked at her and looked to her ladies for guidance. but if she was uncertain, septa mordane was not. just where do you think you are going, arya? the septa demanded. arya glared at her. i have to go shoe a horse, she said sweetly, taking a brief satisfaction in the shock on the septa's face. then she whirled and made her exit, running down the steps as fast as her feet would take her. it wasn't fair. sansa had everything. sansa was two years older; maybe by the time arya had been born, there had been nothing left. often it felt that way. sansa could sew and dance and sing. she wrote poetry. she knew how to dress. she played the high harp and the bells. worse, she was beautiful. sansa had gotten their mother's fine high cheekbones and the thick auburn hair of the tullys. arya took after their lord father. her hair was a lusterless brown, and her face was long and solemn. jeyne used to call her arya horseface, and neigh whenever she came near. it hurt that the one thing arya could do better than her sister was ride a horse. well, that and manage a household. sansa had never had much of a head for figures. if she did marry prince joff, arya hoped for his sake that he had a good steward. nymeria was waiting for her in the guardroom at the base of the stairs. she bounded to her feet as soon as she caught sight of arya. arya grinned. the wolf pup loved her, even if no one else did. they went everywhere together, and nymeria slept in her room, at the foot of her bed. if mother had not forbidden it, arya would gladly have taken the wolf with her to needlework. let septa mordane complain about her stitches then. nymeria nipped eagerly at her hand as arya untied her. she had yellow eyes. when they caught the sunlight, they gleamed like two golden coins. arya had named her after the warrior queen of the rhoyne, who had led her people across the narrow sea. that had been a great scandal too. sansa, of course, had named her pup lady. arya made a face and hugged the wolfling tight. nymeria licked her ear, and she giggled. by now septa mordane would certainly have sent word to her lady mother. if she went to her room, they would find her. arya did not care to be found. she had a better notion. the boys were at practice in the yard. she wanted to see robb put gallant prince joffrey flat on his back. come, she whispered to nymeria. she got up and ran, the wolf coming hard at her heels. there was a window in the covered bridge between the armory and the great keep where you had a view of the whole yard. that was where they headed. they arrived, flushed and breathless, to find jon seated on the sill, one leg drawn up languidly to his chin. he was watching the action, so absorbed that he seemed unaware of her approach until his white wolf moved to meet them. nymeria stalked closer on wary feet. ghost, already larger than his litter mates, smelled her, gave her ear a careful nip, and settled back down. jon gave her a curious look. shouldn't you be working on your stitches, little sister? arya made a face at him. i wanted to see them fight. he smiled. come here, then. arya climbed up on the window and sat beside him, to a chorus of thuds and grunts from the yard below. to her disappointment, it was the younger boys drilling. bran was so heavily padded he looked as though he had belted on a featherbed, and prince tommen, who was plump to begin with, seemed positively round. they were huffing and puffing and hitting at each other with padded wooden swords under the watchful eye of old ser rodrik cassel, the master-at-arms, a great stout keg of a man with magnificent white cheek whiskers. a dozen spectators, man and boy, were calling out encouragement, robb's voice the loudest among them. she spotted theon greyjoy beside him, his black doublet emblazoned with the golden kraken of his house, a look of wry contempt on his face. both of the combatants were staggering. arya judged that they had been at it awhile. a shade more exhausting than needlework, jon observed. a shade more fun than needlework, arya gave back at him. jon grinned, reached over, and messed up her hair. arya flushed. they had always been close. jon had their father's face, as she did. they were the only ones. robb and sansa and bran and even little rickon all took after the tullys, with easy smiles and fire in their hair. when arya had been little, she had been afraid that meant that she was a bastard too. it been jon she had gone to in her fear, and jon who had reassured her. why aren't you down in the yard? arya asked him. he gave her a half smile. bastards are not allowed to damage young princes, he said. any bruises they take in the practice yard must come from trueborn swords. oh. arya felt abashed. she should have realized. for the second time today, arya reflected that life was not fair. she watched her little brother whack at tommen. i could do just as good as bran, she said. he's only seven. i'm nine. jon looked her over with all his fourteen-year-old wisdom. you're too skinny, he said. he took her arm to feel her muscle. then he sighed and shook his head. i doubt you could even lift a longsword, little sister, never mind swing one. arya snatched back her arm and glared at him. jon messed up her hair again. they watched bran and tommen circle each other. you see prince joffrey? jon asked. she hadn't, not at first glance, but when she looked again she found him to the back, under the shade of the high stone wall. he was surrounded by men she did not recognize, young squires in the livery of lannister and baratheon, strangers all. there were a few older men among them; knights, she surmised. look at the arms on his surcoat, jon suggested. arya looked. an ornate shield had been embroidered on the prince's padded surcoat. no doubt the needlework was exquisite. the arms were divided down the middle; on one side was the crowned stag of the royal house, on the other the lion of lannister. the lannisters are proud, jon observed. you'd think the royal sigil would be sufficient, but no. he makes his mother's house equal in honor to the king's. the woman is important too! arya protested. jon chuckled. perhaps you should do the same thing, little sister. wed tully to stark in your arms. a wolf with a fish in its mouth? it made her laugh. that would look silly. besides, if a girl can't fight, why should she have a coat of arms? jon shrugged. girls get the arms but not the swords. bastards get the swords but not the arms. i did not make the rules, little sister. there was a shout from the courtyard below. prince tommen was rolling in the dust, trying to get up and failing. all the padding made him look like a turtle on its back. bran was standing over him with upraised wooden sword, ready to whack him again once he regained his feet. the men began to laugh. enough! ser rodrik called out. he gave the prince a hand and yanked him back to his feet. well fought. lew, donnis, help them out of their armor. he looked around. prince joffrey, robb, will you go another round? robb, already sweaty from a previous bout, moved forward eagerly. gladly. joffrey moved into the sunlight in response to rodrik's summons. his hair shone like spun gold. he looked bored. this is a game for children, ser rodrik. theon greyjoy gave a sudden bark of laughter. you are children, he said derisively. robb may be a child, joffrey said. i am a prince. and i grow tired of swatting at starks with a play sword. you got more swats than you gave, joff, robb said. are you afraid? prince joffrey looked at him. oh, terrified, he said. you're so much older. some of the lannister men laughed. jon looked down on the scene with a frown. joffrey is truly a little shit, he told arya. ser rodrik tugged thoughtfully at his white whiskers. what are you suggesting? he asked the prince. live steel. done, robb shot back. you'll be sorry! the master-at-arms put a hand on robb's shoulder to quiet him. live steel is too dangerous. i will permit you tourney swords, with blunted edges. joffrey said nothing, but a man strange to arya, a tall knight with black hair and burn scars on his face, pushed forward in front of the prince. this is your prince. who are you to tell him he may not have an edge on his sword, ser? master-at-arms of winterfell, clegane, and you would do well not to forget it. are you training women here? the burned man wanted to know. he was muscled like a bull. i am training knights, ser rodrik said pointedly. they will have steel when they are ready. when they are of an age. the burned man looked at robb. how old are you, boy? fourteen, robb said. i killed a man at twelve. you can be sure it was not with a blunt sword. arya could see robb bristle. his pride was wounded. he turned on ser rodrik. let me do it. i can beat him. beat him with a tourney blade, then, ser rodrik said. joffrey shrugged. come and see me when you're older, stark. if you're not too old. there was laughter from the lannister men. robb's curses rang through the yard. arya covered her mouth in shock. theon greyjoy seized robb's arm to keep him away from the prince. ser rodrik tugged at his whiskers in dismay. joffrey feigned a yawn and turned to his younger brother. come, tommen, he said. the hour of play is done. leave the children to their frolics. that brought more laughter from the lannisters, more curses from robb. ser rodrik' s face was beet-red with fury under the white of his whiskers. theon kept robb locked in an iron grip until the princes and their party were safely away. jon watched them leave, and arya watched jon. his face had grown as still as the pool at the heart of the godswood. finally he climbed down off the window. the show is done, he said. he bent to scratch ghost behind the ears. the white wolf rose and rubbed against him. you had best run back to your room, little sister. septa mordane will surely be lurking. the longer you hide, the sterner the penance. you'll be sewing all through winter. when the spring thaw comes, they will find your body with a needle still locked tight between your frozen fingers. arya didn't think it was funny. i hate needlework! she said with passion. it's not fair! nothing is fair, jon said. he messed up her hair again and walked away from her, ghost moving silently beside him. nymeria started to follow too, then stopped and came back when she saw that arya was not coming. reluctantly she turned in the other direction. it was worse than jon had thought. it wasn't septa mordane waiting in her room. it was septa mordane and her mother. her father had been fighting with the council again. arya could see it on his face when he came to table, late again, as he had been so often. the first course, a thick sweet soup made with pumpkins, had already been taken away when ned stark strode into the small hall. they called it that to set it apart from the great hall, where the king could feast a thousand, but it was a long room with a high vaulted ceiling and bench space for two hundred at its trestle tables. my lord, jory said when father entered. he rose to his feet, and the rest of the guard rose with him. each man wore a new cloak, heavy grey wool with a white satin border. a hand of beaten silver clutched the woolen folds of each cloak and marked their wearers as men of the hand's household guard. there were only fifty of them, so most of the benches were empty. be seated, eddard stark said. i see you have started without me. i am pleased to know there are still some men of sense in this city. he signaled for the meal to resume. the servants began bringing out platters of ribs, roasted in a crust of garlic and herbs. the talk in the yard is we shall have a tourney, my lord, jory said as he resumed his seat. they say that knights will come from all over the realm to joust and feast in honor of your appointment as hand of the king. arya could see that her father was not very happy about that. do they also say this is the last thing in the world i would have wished? sansa's eyes had grown wide as the plates. a tourney, she breathed. she was seated between septa mordane and jeyne poole, as far from arya as she could get without drawing a reproach from father. will we be permitted to go, father? you know my feelings, sansa. it seems i must arrange robert's games and pretend to be honored for his sake. that does not mean i must subject my daughters to this folly. oh, please, sansa said. i want to see. septa mordane spoke up. princess myrcella will be there, my lord, and her younger than lady sansa. all the ladies of the court will be expected at a grand event like this, and as the tourney is in your honor, it would look queer if your family did not attend. father looked pained. i suppose so. very well, i shall arrange a place for you, sansa. he saw arya. for both of you. i don't care about their stupid tourney, arya said. she knew prince joffrey would be there, and she hated prince joffrey. sansa lifted her head. it will be a splendid event. you shan't be wanted. anger flashed across father's face. enough, sansa. more of that and you will change my mind. i am weary unto death of this endless war you two are fighting. you are sisters. i expect you to behave like sisters, is that understood? sansa bit her lip and nodded. arya lowered her face to stare sullenly at her plate. she could feel tears stinging her eyes. she rubbed them away angrily, determined not to cry. the only sound was the clatter of knives and forks. pray excuse me, her father announced to the table. i find i have small appetite tonight. he walked from the hall. after he was gone, sansa exchanged excited whispers with jeyne poole. down the table jory laughed at a joke, and hullen started in about horseflesh. your warhorse, now, he may not be the best one for the joust. not the same thing, oh, no, not the same at all. the men had heard it all before; desmond, jacks, and hullen's son harwin shouted him down together, and porther called for more wine. no one talked to arya. she didn't care. she liked it that way. she would have eaten her meals alone in her bedchamber if they let her. sometimes they did, when father had to dine with the king or some lord or the envoys from this place or that place. the rest of the time, they ate in his solar, just him and her and sansa. that was when arya missed her brothers most. she wanted to tease bran and play with baby rickon and have robb smile at her. she wanted jon to muss up her hair and call her little sister and finish her sentences with her. but all of them were gone. she had no one left but sansa, and sansa wouldn't even talk to her unless father made her. back at winterfell, they had eaten in the great hall almost half the time. her father used to say that a lord needed to eat with his men, if he hoped to keep them. know the men who follow you, she heard him tell robb once, and let them know you. don't ask your men to die for a stranger. at winterfell, he always had an extra seat set at his own table, and every day a different man would be asked to join him. one night it would be vayon poole, and the talk would be coppers and bread stores and servants. the next time it would be mikken, and her father would listen to him go on about armor and swords and how hot a forge should be and the best way to temper steel. another day it might be hullen with his endless horse talk, or septon chayle from the library, or jory, or ser rodrik, or even old nan with her stories. arya had loved nothing better than to sit at her father's table and listen to them talk. she had loved listening to the men on the benches too; to freeriders tough as leather, courtly knights and bold young squires, grizzled old men-at-arms. she used to throw snowballs at them and help them steal pies from the kitchen. their wives gave her scones and she invented names for their babies and played monsters-and-maidens and hide-the-treasure and come-into-my-castle with their children. fat tom used to call her arya underfoot, because he said that was where she always was. she'd liked that a lot better than arya horseface. only that was winterfell, a world away, and now everything was changed. this was the first time they had supped with the men since arriving in king's landing. arya hated it. she hated the sounds of their voices now, the way they laughed, the stories they told. they'd been her friends, she'd felt safe around them, but now she knew that was a lie. they'd let the queen kill lady, that was horrible enough, but then the hound found mycah. jeyne poole had told arya that he'd cut him up in so many pieces that they'd given him back to the butcher in a bag, and at first the poor man had thought it was a pig they'd slaughtered. and no one had raised a voice or drawn a blade or anything, not harwin who always talked so bold, or alyn who was going to be a knight, or jory who was captain of the guard. not even her father. he was my friend, arya whispered into her plate, so low that no one could hear. her ribs sat there untouched, grown cold now, a thin film of grease congealing beneath them on the plate. arya looked at them and felt ill. she pushed away from the table. pray, where do you think you are going, young lady? septa mordane asked. i'm not hungry. arya found it an effort to remember her courtesies. may i be excused, please? she recited stiffly. you may not, the septa said. you have scarcely touched your food. you will sit down and clean your plate. you clean it! before anyone could stop her, arya bolted for the door as the men laughed and septa mordane called loudly after her, her voice rising higher and higher. fat tom was at his post, guarding the door to the tower of the hand. he blinked when he saw arya rushing toward him and heard the septa's shouts. here now, little one, hold on, he started to say, reaching, but arya slid between his legs and then she was running up the winding tower steps, her feet hammering on the stone while fat tom huffed and puffed behind her. her bedchamber was the only place that arya liked in all of king's landing, and the thing she liked best about it was the door, a massive slab of dark oak with black iron bands. when she slammed that door and dropped the heavy crossbar, nobody could get into her room, not septa mordane or fat tom or sansa or jory or the hound, nobody! she slammed it now. when the bar was down, arya finally felt safe enough to cry. she went to the window seat and sat there, sniffling, hating them all, and herself most of all. it was all her fault, everything bad that had happened. sansa said so, and jeyne too. fat tom was knocking on her door. arya girl, what's wrong? he called out. you in there? no! she shouted. the knocking stopped. a moment later she heard him going away. fat tom was always easy to fool. arya went to the chest at the foot of her bed. she knelt, opened the lid, and began pulling her clothes out with both hands, grabbing handfuls of silk and satin and velvet and wool and tossing them on the floor. it was there at the bottom of the chest, where she'd hidden it. arya lifted it out almost tenderly and drew the slender blade from its sheath. needle. she thought of mycah again and her eyes filled with tears. her fault, her fault, her fault. if she had never asked him to play at swords with her... there was a pounding at her door, louder than before. arya stark, you open this door at once, do you hear me? arya spun around, with needle in her hand. you better not come in here! she warned. she slashed at the air savagely. the hand will hear of this! septa mordane raged. i don't care, arya screamed. go away. you will rue this insolent behavior, young lady, i promise you that. arya listened at the door until she heard the sound of the septa's receding footsteps. she went back to the window, needle in hand, and looked down into the courtyard below. if only she could climb like bran, she thought; she would go out the window and down the tower, run away from this horrible place, away from sansa and septa mordane and prince joffrey, from all of them. steal some food from the kitchens, take needle and her good boots and a warm cloak. she could find nymeria in the wild woods below the trident, and together they'd return to winterfell, or run to jon on the wall. she found herself wishing that jon was here with her now. then maybe she wouldn't feel so alone. a soft knock at the door behind her turned arya away from the window and her dreams of escape. arya, her father's voice called out. open the door. we need to talk. arya crossed the room and lifted the crossbar. father was alone. he seemed more sad than angry. that made arya feel even worse. may i come in? arya nodded, then dropped her eyes, ashamed. father closed the door. whose sword is that? mine. arya had almost forgotten needle, in her hand. give it to me. reluctantly arya surrendered her sword, wondering if she would ever hold it again. her father turned it in the light, examining both sides of the blade. he tested the point with his thumb. a bravo's blade, he said. yet it seems to me that i know this maker's mark. this is mikken's work. arya could not lie to him. she lowered her eyes. lord eddard stark sighed. my nine-year-old daughter is being armed from my own forge, and i know nothing of it. the hand of the king is expected to rule the seven kingdoms, yet it seems i cannot even rule my own household. how is it that you come to own a sword, arya? where did you get this? arya chewed her lip and said nothing. she would not betray jon, not even to their father. after a while, father said, i don't suppose it matters, truly. he looked down gravely at the sword in his hands. this is no toy for children, least of all for a girl. what would septa mordane say if she knew you were playing with swords? i wasn't playing, arya insisted. i hate septa mordane. that's enough. her father's voice was curt and hard. the septa is doing no more than is her duty, though gods know you have made it a struggle for the poor woman. your mother and i have charged her with the impossible task of making you a lady. i don't want to be a lady! arya flared. i ought to snap this toy across my knee here and now, and put an end to this nonsense. needle wouldn't break, arya said defiantly, but her voice betrayed her words. it has a name, does it? her father sighed. ah, arya. you have a wildness in you, child.'the wolf blood,' my father used to call it. lyanna had a touch of it, and my brother brandon more than a touch. it brought them both to an early grave. arya heard sadness in his voice; he did not often speak of his father, or of the brother and sister who had died before she was born. lyanna might have carried a sword, if my lord father had allowed it. you remind me of her sometimes. you even look like her. lyanna was beautiful, arya said, startled. everybody said so. it was not a thing that was ever said of arya. she was, eddard stark agreed, beautiful, and willful, and dead before her time. he lifted the sword, held it out between them. arya, what did you think to do with this... needle? who did you hope to skewer? your sister? septa mordane? do you know the first thing about sword fighting? all she could think of was the lesson jon had given her. stick them with the pointy end, she blurted out. her father snorted back laughter. that is the essence of it, i suppose. arya desperately wanted to explain, to make him see. i was trying to learn, but... her eyes filled with tears. i asked mycah to practice with me. the grief came on her all at once. she turned away, shaking. i asked him, she cried. it was my fault, it was me... suddenly her father's arms were around her. he held her gently as she turned to him and sobbed against his chest. no, sweet one, he murmured. grieve for your friend, but never blame yourself. you did not kill the butcher's boy. that murder lies at the hound's door, him and the cruel woman he serves. i hate them, arya confided, red- faced, sniffling. the hound and the queen and the king and prince joffrey. i hate all of them. joffrey lied, it wasn't the way he said. i hate sansa too. she did remember, she just lied so joffrey would like her. we all lie, her father said. or did you truly think i'd believe that nymeria ran off? arya blushed guiltily. jory promised not to tell. jory kept his word, her father said with a smile. there are some things i do not need to be told. even a blind man could see that wolf would never have left you willingly. we had to throw rocks, she said miserably. i told her to run, to go be free, that i didn't want her anymore. there were other wolves for her to play with, we heard them howling, and jory said the woods were full of game, so she'd have deer to hunt. only she kept following, and finally we had to throw rocks. i hit her twice. she whined and looked at me and i felt so 'shamed, but it was right, wasn't it? the queen would have killed her. it was right, her father said. and even the lie was... not without honor. he'd put needle aside when he went to arya to embrace her. now he took the blade up again and walked to the window, where he stood for a moment, looking out across the courtyard. when he turned back, his eyes were thoughtful. he seated himself on the window seat, needle across his lap. arya, sit down. i need to try and explain some things to you. she perched anxiously on the edge of her bed. you are too young to be burdened with all my cares, he told her, but you are also a stark of winterfell. you know our words. winter is coming, arya whispered. the hard cruel times, her father said. we tasted them on the trident, child, and when bran fell. you were born in the long summer, sweet one, you've never known anything else, but now the winter is truly coming. remember the sigil of our house, arya. the direwolf, she said, thinking of nymeria. she hugged her knees against her chest, suddenly afraid. let me tell you something about wolves, child. when the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives. summer is the time for squabbles. in winter, we must protect one another, keep each other warm, share our strengths. so if you must hate, arya, hate those who would truly do us harm. septa mordane is a good woman, and sansa... sansa is your sister. you may be as different as the sun and the moon, but the same blood flows through both your hearts. you need her, as she needs you... and i need both of you, gods help me. he sounded so tired that it made arya sad. i don't hate sansa, she told him. not truly. it was only half a lie. i do not mean to frighten you, but neither will i lie to you. we have come to a dark dangerous place, child. this is not winterfell. we have enemies who mean us ill. we cannot fight a war among ourselves. this willfulness of yours, the running off, the angry words, the disobedience... at home, these were only the summer games of a child. here and now, with winter soon upon us, that is a different matter. it is time to begin growing up. i will, arya vowed. she had never loved him so much as she did in that instant. i can be strong too. i can be as strong as robb. he held needle out to her, hilt first. here... she looked at the sword with wonder in her eyes. for a moment she was afraid to touch it, afraid that if she reached for it it would be snatched away again, but then her father said, go on, it's yours, and she took it in her hand. i can keep it? she said. for true? for true. he smiled. if i took it away, no doubt i'd find a morningstar hidden under your pillow within the fortnight. try not to stab your sister, whatever the provocation. i won't. i promise. arya clutched needle tightly to her chest as her father took his leave. the next morning, as they broke their fast, she apologized to septa mordane and asked for her pardon. the septa peered at her suspiciously, but father nodded. three days later, at midday, her father's steward vayon poole sent arya to the small hall. the trestle tables had been dismantled and the benches shoved against the walls. the hall seemed empty, until an unfamiliar voice said, you are late, boy. a slight man with a bald head and a great beak of a nose stepped out of the shadows, holding a pair of slender wooden swords. tomorrow you will be here at midday. he had an accent, the lilt of the free cities, braavos perhaps, or myr. who are you? arya asked. i am your dancing master. he tossed her one of the wooden blades. she grabbed for it, missed, and heard it clatter to the floor. tomorrow you will catch it. now pick it up. it was not just a stick, but a true wooden sword complete with grip and guard and pommel. arya picked it up and clutched it nervously with both hands, holding it out in front of her. it was heavier than it looked, much heavier than needle. the bald man clicked his teeth together. that is not the way, boy. this is not a greatsword that is needing two hands to swing it. you will take the blade in one hand. it's too heavy, arya said. it is heavy as it needs to be to make you strong, and for the balancing. a hollow inside is filled with lead, just so. one hand now is all that is needing. arya took her right hand off the grip and wiped her sweaty palm on her pants. she held the sword in her left hand. he seemed to approve. the left is good. all is reversed, it will make your enemies more awkward. now you are standing wrong. turn your body sideface, yes, so. you are skinny as the shaft of a spear, do you know. that is good too, the target is smaller. now the grip. let me see. he moved closer and peered at her hand, prying her fingers apart, rearranging them. just so, yes. do not squeeze it so tight, no, the grip must be deft, delicate. what if i drop it? arya said. the steel must be part of your arm, the bald man told her. can you drop part of your arm? no. nine years syrio forel was first sword to the sealord of braavos, he knows these things. listen to him, boy. it was the third time he had called her boy. i'm a girl, arya objected. boy, girl, syrio forel said. you are a sword, that is all. he clicked his teeth together. just so, that is the grip. you are not holding a battle-axe, you are holding a- --needle, arya finished for him, fiercely. just so. now we will begin the dance. remember, child, this is not the iron dance of westeros we are learning, the knight's dance, hacking and hammering, no. this is the bravo's dance, the water dance, swift and sudden. all men are made of water, do you know this? when you pierce them, the water leaks out and they die. he took a step backward, raised his own wooden blade. now you will try to strike me... arya tried to strike him. she tried for four hours, until every muscle in her body was sore and aching, while syrio forel clicked his teeth together and told her what to do. the next day their real work began. the one-eared black torn arched his back and hissed at her. arya padded down the alley, balanced lightly on the balls of her bare feet, listening to the flutter of her heart, breathing slow deep breaths. quiet as a shadow, she told herself, light as a feather. the tomcat watched her come, his eyes wary. catching cats was hard. her hands were covered with half-healed scratches, and both knees were scabbed over where she had scraped them raw in tumbles. at first even the cook's huge fat kitchen cat had been able to elude her, but syrio had kept her at it day and night. when she'd run to him with her hands bleeding, he had said, so slow? be quicker, girl. your enemies will give you more than scratches. he had dabbed her wounds with myrish fire, which burned so bad she had had to bite her lip to keep from screaming. then he sent her out after more cats. the red keep was full of cats: lazy old cats dozing in the sun, coldeyed mousers twitching their tails, quick little kittens with claws like needles, ladies' cats all combed and trusting, ragged shadows prowling the midden heaps. one by one arya had chased them down and snatched them up and brought them proudly to syrio forel... all but this one, this one-eared black devil of a tomcat. that's the real king of this castle right there, one of the gold cloaks had told her. older than sin and twice as mean. one time, the king was feasting the queen's father, and that black bastard hopped up on the table and snatched a roast quail right out of lord tywin's fingers. robert laughed so hard he like to burst. you stay away from that one, child. he had run her halfway across the castle; twice around the tower of the hand, across the inner bailey, through the stables, down the serpentine steps, past the small kitchen and the pig yard and the barracks of the gold cloaks, along the base of the river wall and up more steps and back and forth over traitor's walk, and then down again and through a gate and around a well and in and out of strange buildings until arya didn't know where she was. now at last she had him. high walls pressed close on either side, and ahead was a blank windowless mass of stone. quiet as a shadow, she repeated, sliding forward, light as a feather. when she was three steps away from him, the tomcat bolted. left, then right, he went; and right, then left, went arya, cutting off his escape. he hissed again and tried to dart between her legs. quick as a snake, she thought. her hands closed around him. she hugged him to her chest, whirling and laughing aloud as his claws raked at the front of her leather jerkin. ever so fast, she kissed him right between the eyes, and jerked her head back an instant before his claws would have found her face. the tomcat yowled and spit. what's he doing to that cat? startled, arya dropped the cat and whirled toward the voice. the torn bounded off in the blink of an eye. at the end of the alley stood a girl with a mass of golden curls, dressed as pretty as a doll in blue satin. beside her was a plump little blond boy with a prancing stag sewn in pearls across the front of his doublet and a miniature sword at his belt. princess myrcella and prince tommen, arya thought. a septa as large as a draft horse hovered over them, and behind her two big men in crimson cloaks, lannister house guards. what were you doing to that cat, boy? myrcella asked again, sternly. to her brother she said, he's a ragged boy, isn't he? look at him. she giggled. a ragged dirty smelly boy, tommen agreed. they don't know me, arya realized. they don't even know i'm a girl. small wonder; she was barefoot and dirty, her hair tangled from the long run through the castle, clad in a jerkin ripped by cat claws and brown roughspun pants hacked off above her scabby knees. you don't wear skirts and silks when you're catching cats. quickly she lowered her head and dropped to one knee. maybe they wouldn't recognize her. if they did, she would never hear the end of it. septa mordane would be mortified, and sansa would never speak to her again from the shame. the old fat septa moved forward. boy, how did you come here? you have no business in this part of the castle. you can't keep this sort out, one of the red cloaks said. like trying to keep out rats. who do you belong to, boy? the septa demanded. answer me. what's wrong with you, are you mute? arya's voice caught in her throat. if she answered, tommen and myrcella would know her for certain. godwyn, bring him here, the septa said. the taller of the guardsmen started down the alley. panic gripped her throat like a giant's hand. arya could not have spoken if her life had hung on it. calm as still water, she mouthed silently. as godwyn reached for her, arya moved. quick as a snake. she leaned to her left, letting his fingers brush her arm, spinning around him, smooth as summer silk. by the time he got himself turned, she was sprinting down the alley. swift as a deer. the septa was screeching at her. arya slid between legs as thick and white as marble columns, bounded to her feet, bowled into prince tommen and hopped over him when he sat down hard and said oof, spun away from the second guard, and then she was past them all, running full out. she heard shouts, then pounding footsteps, closing behind her. she dropped and rolled. the red cloak went careening past her, stumbling. arya sprang back to her feet. she saw a window above her, high and narrow, scarcely more than an arrow slit. arya leapt, caught the sill, pulled herself up. she held her breath as she wriggled through. slippery as an eel. dropping to the floor in front of a startled scrubwoman, she hopped up, brushed the rushes off her clothes, and was off again, out the door and along a long hall, down a stair, across a hidden courtyard, around a corner and over a wall and through a low narrow window into a pitch-dark cellar. the sounds grew more and more distant behind her. arya was out of breath and quite thoroughly lost. she was in for it now if they had recognized her, but she didn't think they had. she'd moved too fast. swift as a deer. she hunkered down in the dark against a damp stone wall and listened for the pursuit, but the only sound was the beating of her own heart and a distant drip of water. quiet as a shadow, she told herself. she wondered where she was. when they had first come to king's landing, she used to have bad dreams about getting lost in the castle. father said the red keep was smaller than winterfell, but in her dreams it had been immense, an endless stone maze with walls that seemed to shift and change behind her. she would find herself wandering down gloomy halls past faded tapestries, descending endless circular stairs, darting through courtyards or over bridges, her shouts echoing unanswered. in some of the rooms the red stone walls would seem to drip blood, and nowhere could she find a window. sometimes she would hear her father's voice, but always from a long way off, and no matter how hard she ran after it, it would grow fainter and fainter, until it faded to nothing and arya was alone in the dark. it was very dark right now, she realized. she hugged her bare knees tight against her chest and shivered. she would wait quietly and count to ten thousand. by then it would be safe for her to come creeping back out and find her way home. by the time she had reached eighty-seven, the room had begun to lighten as her eyes adjusted to the blackness. slowly the shapes around her took on form. huge empty eyes stared at her hungrily through the gloom, and dimly she saw the jagged shadows of long teeth. she had lost the count. she closed her eyes and bit her lip and sent the fear away. when she looked again, the monsters would be gone. would never have been. she pretended that syrio was beside her in the dark, whispering in her ear. calm as still water, she told herself. strong as a bear. fierce as a wolverine. she opened her eyes again. the monsters were still there, but the fear was gone. arya got to her feet, moving warily. the heads were all around her. she touched one, curious, wondering if it was real. her fingertips brushed a massive jaw. it felt real enough. the bone was smooth beneath her hand, cold and hard to the touch. she ran her fingers down a tooth, black and sharp, a dagger made of darkness. it made her shiver. it's dead, she said aloud. it's just a skull, it can't hurt me. yet somehow the monster seemed to know she was there. she could feel its empty eyes watching her through the gloom, and there was something in that dim, cavernous room that did not love her. she edged away from the skull and backed into a second, larger than the first. for an instant she could feel its teeth digging into her shoulder, as if it wanted a bite of her flesh. arya whirled, felt leather catch and tear as a huge fang nipped at her jerkin, and then she was running. another skull loomed ahead, the biggest monster of all, but arya did not even slow. she leapt over a ridge of black teeth as tall as swords, dashed through hungry jaws, and threw herself against the door. her hands found a heavy iron ring set in the wood, and she yanked at it. the door resisted a moment, before it slowly began to swing inward, with a creak so loud arya was certain it could be heard all through the city. she opened the door just far enough to slip through, into the hallway beyond. if the room with the monsters had been dark, the hall was the blackest pit in the seven hells. calm as still water, arya told herself, but even when she gave her eyes a moment to adjust, there was nothing to see but the vague grey outline of the door she had come through. she wiggled her fingers in front of her face, felt the air move, saw nothing. she was blind. a water dancer sees with all her senses, she reminded herself. she closed her eyes and steadied her breathing one two three, drank in the quiet, reached out with her hands. her fingers brushed against rough unfinished stone to her left. she followed the wall, her hand skimming along the surface, taking small gliding steps through the darkness. all halls lead somewhere. here there is a way in, there is a way out. fear cuts deeper than swords. arya would not be afraid. it seemed as if she had been walking a long ways when the wall ended abruptly and a draft of cold air blew past her cheek. loose hairs stirred faintly against her skin. from somewhere far below her, she heard noises. the scrape of boots, the distant sound of voices. a flickering light brushed the wall ever so faintly, and she saw that she stood at the top of a great black well, a shaft twenty feet across plunging deep into the earth. huge stones had been set into the curving walls as steps, circling down and down, dark as the steps to hell that old nan used to tell them of. and something was coming up out of the darkness, out of the bowels of the earth... arya peered over the edge and felt the cold black breath on her face. far below, she saw the light of a single torch, small as the flame of a candle. two men, she made out. their shadows writhed against the sides of the well, tall as giants. she could hear their voices, echoing up the shaft. ...found one bastard, one said. the rest will come soon. a day, two days, a fortnight... and when he learns the truth, what will he do? a second voice asked in the liquid accents of the free cities. the gods alone know, the first voice said. arya could see a wisp of grey smoke drifting up off the torch, writhing like a snake as it rose. the fools tried to kill his son, and what's worse, they made a mummer's farce of it. he's not a man to put that aside. i warn you, the wolf and lion will soon be at each other's throats, whether we will it or no. too soon, too soon, the voice with the accent complained. what good is war now? we are not ready. delay. as well bid me stop time. do you take me for a wizard? the other chuckled. no less. flames licked at the cold air. the tall shadows were almost on top of her. an instant later the man holding the torch climbed into her sight, his companion beside him. arya crept back away from the well, dropped to her stomach, and flattened herself against the wall. she held her breath as the men reached the top of the steps. what would you have me do? asked the torchbearer, a stout man in a leather half cape. even in heavy boots, his feet seemed to glide soundlessly over the ground. a round scarred face and a stubble of dark beard showed under his steel cap, and he wore mail over boiled leather, and a dirk and shortsword at his belt. it seemed to arya there was something oddly familiar about him. if one hand can die, why not a second? replied the man with the accent and the forked yellow beard. you have danced the dance before, my friend. he was no one arya had ever seen before, she was certain of it. grossly fat, yet he seemed to walk lightly, carrying his weight on the balls of his feet as a water dancer might. his rings glimmered in the torchlight, red-gold and pale silver, crusted with rubies, sapphires, slitted yellow tiger eyes. every finger wore a ring; some had two. before is not now, and this hand is not the other, the scarred man said as they stepped out into the hall. still as stone, arya told herself, quiet as a shadow. blinded by the blaze of their own torch, they did not see her pressed flat against the stone, only a few feet away. perhaps so, the forked beard replied, pausing to catch his breath after the long climb. nonetheless, we must have time. the princess is with child. the khal will not bestir himself until his son is born. you know how they are, these savages. the man with the torch pushed at something. arya heard a deep rumbling. a huge slab of rock, red in the torchlight, slid down out of the ceiling with a resounding crash that almost made her cry out. where the entry to the well had been was nothing but stone, solid and unbroken. if he does not bestir himself soon, it may be too late, the stout man in the steel cap said. this is no longer a game for two players, if ever it was. stannis baratheon and lysa arryn have fled beyond my reach, and the whispers say they are gathering swords around them. the knight of flowers writes highgarden, urging his lord father to send his sister to court. the girl is a maid of fourteen, sweet and beautiful and tractable, and lord renly and ser loras intend that robert should bed her, wed her, and make a new queen. little finger... the gods only know what game littlefinger is playing. yet lord stark's the one who troubles my sleep. he has the bastard, he has the book, and soon enough he'll have the truth. and now his wife has abducted tyrion lannister, thanks to littlefinger's meddling. lord tywin will take that for an outrage, and jaime has a queer affection for the imp. if the lannisters move north, that will bring the tullys in as well. delay, you say. make haste, i reply. even the finest of jugglers cannot keep a hundred balls in the air forever. you are more than a juggler, old friend. you are a true sorcerer. all i ask is that you work your magic awhile longer. they started down the hall in the direction arya had come, past the room with the monsters. what i can do, i will, the one with the torch said softly. i must have gold, and another fifty birds. she let them get a long way ahead, then went creeping after them. quiet as a shadow. so many? the voices were fainter as the light dwindled ahead of her. the ones you need are hard to find... so young, to know their letters... perhaps older... not die so easy... no. the younger are safer... treat them gently if they kept their tongues the risk... long after their voices had faded away, arya could still see the light of the torch, a smoking star that bid her follow. twice it seemed to disappear, but she kept on straight, and both times she found herself at the top of steep, narrow stairs, the torch glimmering far below her. she hurried after it, down and down. once she stumbled over a rock and fell against the wall, and her hand found raw earth supported by timbers, whereas before the tunnel had been dressed stone. she must have crept after them for miles. finally they were gone, but there was no place to go but forward. she found the wall again and followed, blind and lost, pretending that nymeria was padding along beside her in the darkness. at the end she was knee-deep in foulsmelling water, wishing she could dance upon it as syrio might have, and wondering if she'd ever see light again. it was full dark when finally arya emerged into the night air. she found herself standing at the mouth of a sewer where it emptied into the river. she stank so badly that she stripped right there, dropping her soiled clothing on the riverbank as she dove into the deep black waters. she swam until she felt clean, and crawled out shivering. some riders went past along the river road as arya was washing her clothes, but if they saw the scrawny naked girl scrubbing her rags in the moonlight, they took no notice. she was miles from the castle, but from anywhere in king's landing you needed only to look up to see the red keep high on aegon's hill, so there was no danger of losing her way. her clothes were almost dry by the time she reached the gatehouse. the portcullis was down and the gates barred, so she turned aside to a postern door. the gold cloaks who had the watch sneered when she told them to let her in. off with you, one said. the kitchen scraps are gone, and we'll have no begging after dark. i'm not a beggar, she said. i live here. i said, off with you. do you need a clout on the ear to help your hearing? i want to see my father. the guards exchanged a glance. i want to fuck the queen myself, for all the good it does me, the younger one said. the older scowled. who's this father of yours, boy, the city ratcatcher? the hand of the king, arya told him. both men laughed, but then the older one swung his fist at her, casually, as a man would swat a dog. arya saw the blow coming even before it began. she danced back out of the way, untouched. i'm not a boy, she spat at them. i'm arya stark of winterfell, and if you lay a hand on me my lord father will have both your heads on spikes. if you don't believe me, fetch jory cassel or vayon poole from the tower of the hand. she put her hands on her hips. now are you going to open the gate, or do you need a clout on the ear to help your hearing? her father was alone in the solar when harwin and fat tom marched her in, an oil lamp glowing softly at his elbow. he was bent over the biggest book arya had ever seen, a great thick tome with cracked yellow pages of crabbed script, bound between faded leather covers, but he closed it to listen to harwin's report. his face was stern as he sent the men away with thanks. you realize i had half my guard out searching for you? eddard stark said when they were alone. septa mordane is beside herself with fear. she's in the sept praying for your safe return. arya, you know you are never to go beyond the castle gates without my leave. i didn't go out the gates, she blurted. well, i didn't mean to. i was down in the dungeons, only they turned into this tunnel. it was all dark, and i didn't have a torch or a candle to see by, so i had to follow. i couldn't go back the way i came on account of the monsters. father, they were talking about killing you! not the monsters, the two men. they didn't see me, i was being still as stone and quiet as a shadow, but i heard them. they said you had a book and a bastard and if one hand could die, why not a second? is that the book? jon's the bastard, i bet. jon? arya, what are you talking about? who said this? they did, she told him. there was a fat one with rings and a forked yellow beard, and another in mail and a steel cap, and the fat one said they had to delay but the other one told him he couldn't keep juggling and the wolf and the lion were going to eat each other and it was a mummer's farce. she tried to remember the rest. she hadn't quite understood everything she'd heard, and now it was all mixed up in her head. the fat one said the princess was with child. the one in the steel cap, he had the torch, he said that they had to hurry. i think he was a wizard. a wizard, said ned, unsmiling. did he have a long white beard and tall pointed hat speckled with stars? no! it wasn't like old nan's stories. he didn't look like a wizard, but the fat one said he was. i warn you, arya, if you're spinning this thread of air- no, i told you, it was in the dungeons, by the place with the secret wall. i was chasing cats, and well... she screwed up her face. if she admitted knocking over prince tommen, he would be really angry with her. ... well, i went in this window. that's where i found the monsters. monsters and wizards, her father said. it would seem you've had quite an adventure. these men you heard, you say they spoke of juggling and mummery? yes, arya admitted, only- arya, they were mummers, her father told her. there must be a dozen troupes in king's landing right now, come to make some coin off the tourney crowds. i'm not certain what these two were doing in the castle, but perhaps the king has asked for a show. no. she shook her head stubbornly. they weren't- you shouldn't be following people about and spying on them in any case. nor do i cherish the notion of my daughter climbing in strange windows after stray cats. look at you, sweetling. your arms are covered with scratches. this has gone on long enough. tell syrio forel that i want a word with him- he was interrupted by a short, sudden knock. lord eddard, pardons, desmond called out, opening the door a crack, but there's a black brother here begging audience. he says the matter is urgent. i thought you would want to know. my door is always open to the night's watch, father said. desmond ushered the man inside. he was stooped and ugly, with an unkempt beard and unwashed clothes, yet father greeted him pleasantly and asked his name. yoren, as it please m'lord. my pardons for the hour. he bowed to arya. and this must be your son. he has your look. i'm a girl, arya said, exasperated. if the old man was down from the wall, he must have come by way of winterfell. do you know my brothers? she asked excitedly. robb and bran are at winterfell, and jon's on the wall. jon snow, he's in the night's watch too, you must know him, he has a direwolf, a white one with red eyes. is jon a ranger yet? i'm arya stark. the old man in his smelly black clothes was looking at her oddly, but arya could not seem to stop talking. when you ride back to the wall, would you bring jon a letter if i wrote one? she wished jon were here right now. he'd believe her about the dungeons and the fat man with the forked beard and the wizard in the steel cap. my daughter often forgets her courtesies, eddard stark said with a faint smile that softened his words. i beg your forgiveness, yoren. did my brother benjen send you? no one sent me, m'lord, saving old mormont. i'm here to find men for the wall, and when robert next holds court, i'll bend the knee and cry our need, see if the king and his hand have some scum in the dungeons they'd be well rid of. you might say as benjen stark is why we're talking, though. his blood ran black. made him my brother as much as yours. it's for his sake i'm come. rode hard, i did, near killed my horse the way i drove her, but i left the others well behind. the others? yoren spat. sellswords and freeriders and like trash. that inn was full o' them, and i saw them take the scent. the scent of blood or the scent of gold, they smell the same in the end. not all o' them made for king's landing, either. some went galloping for casterly rock, and the rock lies closer. lord tywin will have gotten the word by now, you can count on it. father frowned. what word is this? yoren eyed arya. one best spoken in private, m'lord, begging your pardons. as you say. desmond, see my daughter to her chambers. he kissed her on the brow. we'll finish our talk on the morrow. arya stood rooted to the spot. nothing bad's happened to jon, has it? she asked yoren. or uncle benjen? well, as to stark, i can't say. the snow boy was well enough when i left the wall. it's not them as concerns me. desmond took her hand. come along, milady. you heard your lord father. arya had no choice but to go with him, wishing it had been fat tom. with tom, she might have been able to linger at the door on some excuse and hear what yoren was saying, but desmond was too single-minded to trick. how many guards does my father have? she asked him as they descended to her bedchamber. here at king's landing? fifty. you wouldn't let anyone kill him, would you? she asked. desmond laughed. no fear on that count, little lady. lord eddard's guarded night and day. he'll come to no harm. the lannisters have more than fifty men, arya pointed out. so they do, but every northerner is worth ten of these southron swords, so you can sleep easy. what if a wizard was sent to kill him? well, as to that, desmond replied, drawing his longsword, wizards die the same as other men, once you cut their heads off. high, syrio forel called out, slashing at her head. the stick swords clacked as arya parried. left, he shouted, and his blade came whistling. hers darted to meet it. the clack made him click his teeth together. right, he said, and low, and left, and left again, faster and faster, moving forward. arya retreated before him, checking each blow. lunge, he warned, and when he thrust she sidestepped, swept his blade away, and slashed at his shoulder. she almost touched him, almost, so close it made her grin. a strand of hair dangled in her eyes, limp with sweat. she pushed it away with the back of her hand. left, syrio sang out. low. his sword was a blur, and the small hall echoed to the clack clack clack. left. left. high. left. right. left. low. left! the wooden blade caught her high in the breast, a sudden stinging blow that hurt all the more because it came from the wrong side. ow! she cried out. she would have a fresh bruise there by the time she went to sleep, somewhere out at sea. a bruise is a lesson, she told herself, and each lesson makes us better. syrio stepped back. you are dead now. arya made a face. you cheated, she said hotly. you said left and you went right. just so. and now you are a dead girl. but you lied! my words lied. my eyes and my arm shouted out the truth, but you were not seeing. i was so, arya said. i watched you every second! watching is not seeing, dead girl. the water dancer sees. come, put down the sword, it is time for listening now. she followed him over to the wall, where he settled onto a bench. syrio forel was first sword to the sealord of braavos, and are you knowing how that came to pass? you were the finest swordsman in the city. just so, but why? other men were stronger, faster, younger, why was syrio forel the best? i will tell you now. he touched the tip of his little finger lightly to his eyelid. the seeing, the true seeing, that is the heart of it. hear me. the ships of braavos sail as far as the winds blow, to lands strange and wonderful, and when they return their captains fetch queer animals to the sealord's menagerie. such animals as you have never seen, striped horses, great spotted things with necks as long as stilts, hairy mouse-pigs as big as cows, stinging manticores, tigers that carry their cubs in a pouch, terrible walking lizards with scythes for claws. syrio forel has seen these things. on the day i am speaking of, the first sword was newly dead, and the sealord sent for me. many bravos had come to him, and as many had been sent away, none could say why. when i came into his presence, he was seated, and in his lap was a fat yellow cat. he told me that one of his captains had brought the beast to him, from an island beyond the sunrise.'have you ever seen her like she asked of me. and to him i said,'each night in the alleys of braavos i see a thousand like him,' and the sealord laughed, and that day i was named the first sword. arya screwed up her face. i don't understand. syrio clicked his teeth together. the cat was an ordinary cat, no more. the others expected a fabulous beast, so that is what they saw. how large it was, they said. it was no larger than any other cat, only fat from indolence, for the sealord fed it from his own table. what curious small ears, they said. its ears had been chewed away in kitten fights. and it was plainly a tomcat, yet the sealord said'her,' and that is what the others saw. are you hearing? arya thought about it. you saw what was there. just so. opening your eyes is all that is needing. the heart lies and the head plays tricks with us, but the eyes see true. look with your eyes. hear with your ears. taste with your mouth. smell with your nose. feel with your skin. then comes the thinking, afterward, and in that way knowing the truth. just so, said arya, grinning. syrio forel allowed himself a smile. i am thinking that when we are reaching this winterfell of yours, it will be time to put this needle in your hand. yes! arya said eagerly. wait till i show jon- behind her the great wooden doors of the small hall flew open with a resounding crash. arya whirled. a knight of the kingsguard stood beneath the arch of the door with five lannister guardsmen arrayed behind him. he was in full armor, but his visor was up. arya remembered his droopy eyes and rustcolored whiskers from when he had come to winterfell with the king: ser meryn trant. the red cloaks wore mail shirts over boiled leather and steel caps with lion crests. arya stark, the knight said, come with us, child. arya chewed her lip uncertainly. what do you want? your father wants to see you. arya took a step forward, but syrio forel held her by the arm. and why is it that lord eddard is sending lannister men in the place of his own? i am wondering. mind your place, dancing master, ser meryn said. this is no concern of yours. my father wouldn't send you, arya said. she snatched up her stick sword. the lannisters laughed. put down the stick, girl, ser meryn told her. i am a sworn brother of the kingsguard, the white swords. so was the kingslayer when he killed the old king, arya said. i don't have to go with you if i don't want. ser meryn trant ran out of patience. take her, he said to his men. he lowered the visor of his helm. three of them started forward, chainmail clinking softly with each step. arya was suddenly afraid. fear cuts deeper than swords, she told herself, to slow the racing of her heart. syrio forel stepped between them, tapping his wooden sword lightly against his boot. you will be stopping there. are you men or dogs that you would threaten a child? out of the way, old man, one of the red cloaks said. syrio's stick came whistling up and rang against his helm. i am syrio forel, and you will now be speaking to me with more respect. bald bastard. the man yanked free his longsword. the stick moved again, blindingly fast. arya heard a loud crack as the sword went clattering to the stone floor. my hand, the guardsman yelped, cradling his broken fingers. you are quick, for a dancing master, said ser meryn. you are slow, for a knight, syrio replied. kill the braavosi and bring me the girl, the knight in the white armor commanded. four lannister guardsmen unsheathed their swords. the fifth, with the broken fingers, spat and pulled free a dagger with his left hand. syrio forel clicked his teeth together, sliding into his water dancer's stance, presenting only his side to the foe. arya child, he called out, never looking, never taking his eyes off the lannisters, we are done with dancing for the day. best you are going now. run to your father. arya did not want to leave him, but he had taught her to do as he said. swift as a deer, she whispered. just so, said syrio forel as the lannisters closed. arya retreated, her own sword stick clutched tightly in her hand. watching him now, she realized that syrio had only been toying with her when they dueled. the red cloaks came at him from three sides with steel in their hands. they had chainmail over their chest and arms, and steel codpieces sewn into their pants, but only leather on their legs. their hands were bare, and the caps they wore had noseguards, but no visor over the eyes. syrio did not wait for them to reach him, but spun to his left. arya had never seen a man move as fast. he checked one sword with his stick and whirled away from a second. off balance, the second man lurched into the first. syrio put a boot to his back and the red cloaks went down together. the third guard came leaping over them, slashing at the water dancer's head. syrio ducked under his blade and thrust upward. the guardsman fell screaming as blood welled from the wet red hole where his left eye had been. the fallen men were getting up. syrio kicked one in the face and snatched the steel cap off the other's head. the dagger man stabbed at him. syrio caught the thrust in the helmet and shattered the man's kneecap with his stick. the last red cloak shouted a curse and charged, hacking down with both hands on his sword. syrio rolled right, and the butcher's cut caught the helmetless man between neck and shoulder as he struggled to his knees. the longsword crunched through mail and leather and flesh. the man on his knees shrieked. before his killer could wrench free his blade, syrio jabbed him in the apple of his throat. the guardsman gave a choked cry and staggered back, clutching at his neck, his face blackening. five men were down, dead, or dying by the time arya reached the back door that opened on the kitchen. she heard ser meryn trant curse. bloody oafs, he swore, drawing his longsword from its scabbard. syrio forel resumed his stance and clicked his teeth together. arya child, he called out, never looking at her, be gone now. look with your eyes, he had said. she saw: the knight in his pale armor head to foot, legs, throat, and hands sheathed in metal, eyes hidden behind his high white helm, and in his hand cruel steel. against that: syrio, in a leather vest, with a wooden sword in his hand. syrio, run, she screamed. the first sword of braavos does not run, he sang as ser meryn slashed at him. syrio danced away from his cut, his stick a blur. in a heartbeat, he had bounced blows off the knight's temple, elbow, and throat, the wood ringing against the metal of helm, gauntlet, and gorget. arya stood frozen. ser meryn advanced; syrio backed away. he checked the next blow, spun away from the second, deflected the third. the fourth sliced his stick in two, splintering the wood and shearing through the lead core. sobbing, arya spun and ran. she plunged through the kitchens and buttery, blind with panic, weaving between cooks and potboys. a baker's helper stepped in front of her, holding a wooden tray. arya bowled her over, scattering fragrant loaves of fresh-baked bread on the floor. she heard shouting behind her as she spun around a portly butcher who stood gaping at her with a cleaver in his hands. his arms were red to the elbow. all that syrio forel had taught her went racing through her head. swift as a deer. quiet as a shadow. fear cuts deeper than swords. quick as a snake. calm as still water. fear cuts deeper than swords. strong as a bear. fierce as a wolverine. fear cuts deeper than swords. the man who fears losing has already lost. fear cuts deeper than swords. fear cuts deeper than swords. fear cuts deeper than swords. the grip of her wooden sword was slick with sweat, and arya was breathing hard when she reached the turret stair. for an instant she froze. up or down? up would take her to the covered bridge that spanned the small court to the tower of the hand, but that would be the way they'd expect her to go, for certain. never do what they expect, syrio once said. arya went down, around and around, leaping over the narrow stone steps two and three at a time. she emerged in a cavernous vaulted cellar, surrounded by casks of ale stacked twenty feet tall. the only light came through narrow slanting windows high in the wall. the cellar was a dead end. there was no way out but the way she had come in. she dare not go back up those steps, but she couldn't stay here, either. she had to find her father and tell him what had happened. her father would protect her. arya thrust her wooden sword through her belt and began to climb, leaping from cask to cask until she could reach the window. grasping the stone with both hands, she pulled herself up. the wall was three feet thick, the window a tunnel slanting up and out. arya wriggled toward daylight. when her head reached ground level, she peered across the bailey to the tower of the hand. the stout wooden door hung splintered and broken, as if by axes. a dead man sprawled facedown on the steps, his cloak tangled beneath him, the back of his mailed shirt soaked red. the corpse's cloak was grey wool trimmed with white satin, she saw with sudden terror. she could not tell who he was. no, she whispered. what was happening? where was her father? why had the red cloaks come for her? she remembered what the man with the yellow beard had said, the day she had found the monsters. if one hand can die, why not a second? arya felt tears in her eyes. she held her breath to listen. she heard the sounds of fighting, shouts, screams, the clang of steel on steel, coming through the windows of the tower of the hand. she could not go back. her father... arya closed her eyes. for a moment she was too frightened to move. they had killed jory and wyl and heward, and that guardsman on the step, whoever he had been. they could kill her father too, and her if they caught her. fear cuts deeper than swords, she said aloud, but it was no good pretending to be a water dancer, syrio had been a water dancer and the white knight had probably killed him, and anyhow she was only a little girl with a wooden stick, alone and afraid. she squirmed out into the yard, glancing around warily as she climbed to her feet. the castle seemed deserted. the red keep was never deserted. all the people must be hiding inside, their doors barred. arya glanced up longingly at her bedchamber, then moved away from the tower of the hand, keeping close to the wall as she slid from shadow to shadow. she pretended she was chasing cats... except she was the cat now, and if they caught her, they would kill her. moving between buildings and over walls, keeping stone to her back wherever possible so no one could surprise her, arya reached the stables almost without incident. a dozen gold cloaks in mail and plate ran past as she was edging across the inner bailey, but without knowing whose side they were on, she hunched down low in the shadows and let them pass. hullen, who had been master of horse at winterfell as long as arya could remember, was slumped on the ground by the stable door. he had been stabbed so many times it looked as if his tunic was patterned with scarlet flowers. arya was certain he was dead, but when she crept closer, his eyes opened. arya underfoot, he whispered. you must... warn your... your lord father... frothy red spittle bubbled from his mouth. the master of horse closed his eyes again and said no more. inside were more bodies; a groom she had played with, and three of her father's household guard. a wagon, laden with crates and chests, stood abandoned near the door of the stable. the dead men must have been loading it for the trip to the docks when they were attacked. arya snuck closer. one of the corpses was desmond, who'd shown her his longsword and promised to protect her father. he lay on his back, staring blindly at the ceiling as flies crawled across his eyes. close to him was a dead man in the red cloak and lion-crest helm of the lannisters. only one, though. every northerner is worth ten of these southron swords, desmond had told her. you liar! she said, kicking his body in a sudden fury. the animals were restless in their stalls, whickering and snorting at the scent of blood. arya's only plan was to saddle a horse and flee, away from the castle and the city. all she had to do was stay on the kingsroad and it would take her back to winterfell. she took a bridle and harness off the wall. as she crossed in back of the wagon, a fallen chest caught her eye. it must have been knocked down in the fight or dropped as it was being loaded. the wood had split, the lid opening to spill the chest's contents across the ground. arya recognized silks and satins and velvets she never wore. she might need warm clothes on the kingsroad, though... and besides... arya knelt in the dirt among the scattered clothes. she found a heavy woolen cloak, a velvet skirt and a silk tunic and some smallclothes, a dress her mother had embroidered for her, a silver baby bracelet she might sell. shoving the broken lid out of the way, she groped inside the chest for needle. she had hidden it way down at the bottom, under everything, but her stuff had all been jumbled around when the chest was dropped. for a moment arya was afraid someone had found the sword and stolen it. then her fingers felt the hardness of metal under a satin gown. there she is, a voice hissed close behind her. startled, arya whirled. a stableboy stood behind her, a smirk on his face, his filthy white undertunic peeking out from beneath a soiled jerkin. his boots were covered with manure, and he had a pitchfork in one hand. who are you? she asked. she don't know me, he said, but i knows her, oh, yes. the wolf girl. help me saddle a horse, arya pleaded, reaching back into the chest, groping for needle. my father's the hand of the king, he'll reward you. father's dead, the boy said. he shuffled toward her. it's the queen who'll be rewarding me. come here, girl. stay away! her fingers closed around needle's hilt. i says, come. he grabbed her arm, hard. everything syrio forel had ever taught her vanished in a heartbeat. in that instant of sudden terror, the only lesson arya could remember was the one jon snow had given her, the very first. she stuck him with the pointy end, driving the blade upward with a wild, hysterical strength. needle went through his leather jerkin and the white flesh of his belly and came out between his shoulder blades. the boy dropped the pitchfork and made a soft noise, something between a gasp and a sigh. his hands closed around the blade. oh, gods, he moaned, as his undertunic began to redden. take it out. when she took it out, he died. the horses were screaming. arya stood over the body, still and frightened in the face of death. blood had gushed from the boy's mouth as he collapsed, and more was seeping from the slit in his belly, pooling beneath his body. his palms were cut where he'd grabbed at the blade. she backed away slowly, needle red in her hand. she had to get away, someplace far from here, someplace safe away from the stableboy's accusing eyes. she snatched up the bridle and harness again and ran to her mare, but as she lifted the saddle to the horse's back, arya realized with a sudden sick dread that the castle gates would be closed. even the postern doors would likely be guarded. maybe the guards wouldn't recognize her. if they thought she was a boy, perhaps they'd let her... no, they'd have orders not to let anyone out, it wouldn't matter whether they knew her or not. but there was another way out of the castle... the saddle slipped from arya's fingers and fell to the dirt with a thump and a puff of dust. could she find the room with the monsters again? she wasn't certain, yet she knew she had to try. she found the clothing she'd gathered and slipped into the cloak, concealing needle beneath its folds. the rest of her things she tied in a roll. with the bundle under her arm, she crept to the far end of the stable. unlatching the back door, she peeked out anxiously. she could hear the distant sound of swordplay, and the shivery wail of a man screaming in pain across the bailey. she would need to go down the serpentine steps, past the small kitchen and the pig yard, that was how she'd gone last time, chasing the black tomcat... only that would take her right past the barracks of the gold cloaks. she couldn't go that way. arya tried to think of another way. if she crossed to the other side of the castle, she could creep along the river wall and through the little godswood... but first she'd have to cross the yard, in the plain view of the guards on the walls. she had never seen so many men on the walls. gold cloaks, most of them, armed with spears. some of them knew her by sight. what would they do if they saw her running across the yard? she'd look so small from up there, would they be able to tell who she was? would they care? she had to leave now, she told herself, but when the moment came, she was too frightened to move. calm as still water, a small voice whispered in her ear. arya was so startled she almost dropped her bundle. she looked around wildly, but there was no one in the stable but her, and the horses, and the dead men. quiet as a shadow, she heard. was it her own voice, or syrio's? she could not tell, yet somehow it calmed her fears. she stepped out of the stable. it was the scariest thing she'd ever done. she wanted to run and hide, but she made herself walk across the yard, slowly, putting one foot in front of the other as if she had all the time in the world and no reason to be afraid of anyone. she thought she could feel their eyes, like bugs crawling on her skin under her clothes. arya never looked up. if she saw them watching, all her courage would desert her, she knew, and she would drop the bundle of clothes and run and cry like a baby, and then they would have her. she kept her gaze on the ground. by the time she reached the shadow of the royal sept on the far side of the yard, arya was cold with sweat, but no one had raised the hue and cry. the sept was open and empty. inside, half a hundred prayer candles burned in a fragrant silence. arya figured the gods would never miss two. she stuffed them up her sleeves, and left by a back window. sneaking back to the alley where she had cornered the one-eared torn was easy, but after that she got lost. she crawled in and out of windows, hopped over walls, and felt her way through dark cellars, quiet as a shadow. once she heard a woman weeping. it took her more than an hour to find the low narrow window that slanted down to the dungeon where the monsters waited. she tossed her bundle through and doubled back to light her candle. that was chancy; the fire she'd remembered seeing had burnt down to embers, and she heard voices as she was blowing on the coals. cupping her fingers around the flickering candle, she went out the window as they were coming in the door, without ever getting a glimpse of who it was. this time the monsters did not frighten her. they seemed almost old friends. arya held the candle over her head. with each step she took, the shadows moved against the walls, as if they were turning to watch her pass. dragons, she whispered. she slid needle out from under her cloak. the slender blade seemed very small and the dragons very big, yet somehow arya felt better with steel in her hand. the long windowless hall beyond the door was as black as she remembered. she held needle in her left hand, her sword hand, the candle in her right fist. hot wax ran down across her knuckles. the entrance to the well had been to the left, so arya went right. part of her wanted to run, but she was afraid of snuffing out her candle. she heard the faint squeaking of rats and glimpsed a pair of tiny glowing eyes on the edge of the light, but rats did not scare her. other things did. it would be so easy to hide here, as she had hidden from the wizard and the man with the forked beard. she could almost see the stableboy standing against the wall, his hands curled into claws with the blood still dripping from the deep gashes in his palms where needle had cut him. he might be waiting to grab her as she passed. he would see her candle coming a long way off. maybe she would be better off without the light... fear cuts deeper than swords, the quiet voice inside her whispered. suddenly arya remembered the crypts at winterfell. they were a lot scarier than this place, she told herself. she'd been just a little girl the first time she saw them. her brother robb had taken them down, her and sansa and baby bran, who'd been no bigger than rickon was now. they'd only had one candle between them, and bran's eyes had gotten as big as saucers as he stared at the stone faces of the kings of winter, with their wolves at their feet and their iron swords across their laps. robb took them all the way down to the end, past grandfather and brandon and lyanna, to show them their own tombs. sansa kept looking at the stubby little candle, anxious that it might go out. old nan had told her there were spiders down here, and rats as big as dogs. robb smiled when she said that. there are worse things than spiders and rats, he whispered. this is where the dead walk. that was when they heard the sound, low and deep and shivery. baby bran had clutched at arya's hand. when the spirit stepped out of the open tomb, pale white and moaning for blood, sansa ran shrieking for the stairs, and bran wrapped himself around robb's leg, sobbing. arya stood her ground and gave the spirit a punch. it was only jon, covered with flour. you stupid, she told him, you scared the baby, but jon and robb just laughed and laughed, and pretty soon bran and arya were laughing too. the memory made arya smile, and after that the darkness held no more terrors for her. the stableboy was dead, she'd killed him, and if he jumped out at her she'd kill him again. she was going home. everything would be better once she was home again, safe behind winterfell's grey granite walls. her footsteps sent soft echoes hurrying ahead of her as arya plunged deeper into the darkness. the scent of hot bread drifting from the shops along the street of flour was sweeter than any perfume arya had ever smelled. she took a deep breath and stepped closer to the pigeon. it was a plump one, speckled brown, busily pecking at a crust that had fallen between two cobblestones, but when arya's shadow touched it, it took to the air. her stick sword whistled out and caught it two feet off the ground, and it went down in a flurry of brown feathers. she was on it in the blink of an eye, grabbing a wing as the pigeon flapped and fluttered. it pecked at her hand. she grabbed its neck and twisted until she felt the bone snap. compared with catching cats, pigeons were easy. a passing septon was looking at her askance. here's the best place to find pigeon, arya told him as she brushed herself off and picked up her fallen stick sword. they come for the crumbs. he hurried away. she tied the pigeon to her belt and started down the street. a man was pushing a load of tarts by on a two-wheeled cart; the smells sang of blueberries and lemons and apricots. her stomach made a hollow rumbly noise. could i have one? she heard herself say. a lemon, or... or any kind. the pushcart man looked her up and down. plainly he did not like what he saw. three coppers. arya tapped her wooden sword against the side of her boot. i'll trade you a fat pigeon, she said. the others take your pigeon, the pushcart man said. the tarts were still warm from the oven. the smells were making her mouth water, but she did not have three coppers... or one. she gave the pushcart man a look, remembering what syrio had told her about seeing. he was short, with a little round belly, and when he moved he seemed to favor his left leg a little. she was just thinking that if she snatched a tart and ran he would never be able to catch her when he said, you be keepin' your filthy hands off. the gold cloaks know how to deal with thieving little gutter rats, that they do. arya glanced warily behind her. two of the city watch were standing at the mouth of an alley. their cloaks hung almost to the ground, the heavy wool dyed a rich gold; their mail and boots and gloves were black. one wore a longsword at his hip, the other an iron cudgel. with a last wistful glance at the tarts, arya edged back from the cart and hurried off. the gold cloaks had not been paying her any special attention, but the sight of them tied her stomach in knots. arya had been staying as far from the castle as she could get, yet even from a distance she could see the heads rotting atop the high red walls. flocks of crows squabbled noisily over each head, thick as flies. the talk in flea bottom was that the gold cloaks had thrown in with the lannisters, their commander raised to a lord, with lands on the trident and a seat on the king's council. she had also heard other things, scary things, things that made no sense to her. some said her father had murdered king robert and been slain in turn by lord renly. others insisted that renly had killed the king in a drunken quarrel between brothers. why else should he have fled in the night like a common thief? one story said the king had been killed by a boar while hunting, another that he'd died eating a boar, stuffing himself so full that he'd ruptured at the table. no, the king had died at table, others said, but only because varys the spider poisoned him. no, it had been the queen who poisoned him. no, he had died of a pox. no, he had choked on a fish bone. one thing all the stories agreed on: king robert was dead. the bells in the seven towers of the great sept of baelor had tolled for a day and a night, the thunder of their grief rolling across the city in a bronze tide. they only rang the bells like that for the death of a king, a tanner's boy told arya. all she wanted was to go home, but leaving king's landing was not so easy as she had hoped. talk of war was on every lip, and gold cloaks were as thick on the city walls as fleas on... well, her, for one. she had been sleeping in flea bottom, on rooftops and in stables, wherever she could find a place to lie down, and it hadn't taken her long to learn that the district was well named. every day since her escape from the red keep, arya had visited each of the seven city gates in turn. the dragon gate, the lion gate, and the old gate were closed and barred. the mud gate and the gate of the gods were open, but only to those who wanted to enter the city; the guards let no one out. those who were allowed to leave left by the king's gate or the iron gate, but lannister men-at-arms in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms manned the guard posts there. spying down from the roof of an inn by the king's gate, arya saw them searching wagons and carriages, forcing riders to open their saddlebags, and questioning everyone who tried to pass on foot. sometimes she thought about swimming the river, but the blackwater rush was wide and deep, and everyone agreed that its currents were wicked and treacherous. she had no coin to pay a ferryman or take passage on a ship. her lord father had taught her never to steal, but it was growing harder to remember why. if she did not get out soon, she would have to take her chances with the gold cloaks. she hadn't gone hungry much since she learned to knock down birds with her stick sword, but she feared so much pigeon was making her sick. a couple she'd eaten raw, before she found flea bottom. in the bottom there were pot-shops along the alleys where huge tubs of stew had been simmering for years, and you could trade half your bird for a heel of yesterday's bread and a bowl o' brown, and they'd even stick the other half in the fire and crisp it up for you, so long as you plucked the feathers yourself. arya would have given anything for a cup of milk and a lemon cake, but the brown wasn't so bad. it usually had barley in it, and chunks of carrot and onion and turnip, and sometimes even apple, with a film of grease swimming on top. mostly she tried not to think about the meat. once she had gotten a piece offish. the only thing was, the pot-shops were never empty, and even as she bolted down her food, arya could feel them watching. some of them stared at her boots or her cloak, and she knew what they were thinking. with others, she could almost feel their eyes crawling under her leathers; she didn't know what they were thinking, and that scared her even more. a couple times, she was followed out into the alleys and chased, but so far no one had been able to catch her. the silver bracelet she'd hoped to sell had been stolen her first night out of the castle, along with her bundle of good clothes, snatched while she slept in a burnt-out house off pig alley. all they left her was the cloak she had been huddled in, the leathers on her back, her wooden practice sword... and needle. she'd been lying on top of needle, or else it would have been gone too; it was worth more than all the rest together. since then arya had taken to walking around with her cloak draped over her right arm, to conceal the blade at her hip. the wooden sword she carried in her left hand, out where everybody could see it, to scare off robbers, but there were men in the pot-shops who wouldn't have been scared off if she'd had a battle-axe. it was enough to make her lose her taste for pigeon and stale bread. often as not, she went to bed hungry rather than risk the stares. once she was outside the city, she would find berries to pick, or orchards she might raid for apples and cherries. arya remembered seeing some from the kingsroad on the journey south. and she could dig for roots in the forest, even run down some rabbits. in the city, the only things to run down were rats and cats and scrawny dogs. the potshops would give you a fistful of coppers for a litter of pups, she'd heard, but she didn't like to think about that. down below the street of flour was a maze of twisting alleys and cross streets. arya scrambled through the crowds, trying to put distance between her and the gold cloaks. she had learned to keep to the center of the street. sometimes she had to dodge wagons and horses, but at least you could see them coming. if you walked near the buildings, people grabbed you. in some alleys you couldn't help but brush against the walls; the buildings leaned in so close they almost met. a whooping gang of small children went running past, chasing a rolling hoop. arya stared at them with resentment, remembering the times she'd played at hoops with bran and jon and their baby brother rickon. she wondered how big rickon had grown, and whether bran was sad. she would have given anything if jon had been here to call her little sister and muss her hair. not that it needed mussing. she'd seen her reflection in puddles, and she didn't think hair got any more mussed than hers. she had tried talking to the children she saw in the street, hoping to make a friend who would give her a place to sleep, but she must have talked wrong or something. the little ones only looked at her with quick, wary eyes and ran away if she came too close. their big brothers and sisters asked questions arya couldn't answer, called her names, and tried to steal from her. only yesterday, a scrawny barefoot girl twice her age had knocked her down and tried to pull the boots off her feet, but arya gave her a crack on her ear with her stick sword that sent her off sobbing and bleeding. a gull wheeled overhead as she made her way down the hill toward flea bottom. arya glanced at it thoughtfully, but it was well beyond the reach of her stick. it made her think of the sea. maybe that was the way out. old nan used to tell stories of boys who stowed away on trading galleys and sailed off into all kinds of adventures. maybe arya could do that too. she decided to visit the riverfront. it was on the way to the mud gate anyway, and she hadn't checked that one today. the wharfs were oddly quiet when arya got there. she spied another pair of gold cloaks, walking side by side through the fish market, but they never so much as looked at her. half the stalls were empty, and it seemed to her that there were fewer ships at dock than she remembered. out on the blackwater, three of the king's war galleys moved in formation, gold-painted hulls splitting the water as their oars rose and fell. arya watched them for a bit, then began to make her way along the river. when she saw the guardsmen on the third pier, in grey woolen cloaks trimmed with white satin, her heart almost stopped in her chest. the sight of winterfell's colors brought tears to her eyes. behind them, a sleek three-banked trading galley rocked at her moorings. arya could not read the name painted on the hull; the words were strange, myrish, braavosi, perhaps even high valyrian. she grabbed a passing longshoreman by the sleeve. please, she said, what ship is this? she's the wind witch, out of myr, the man said. she's still here, arya blurted. the longshoreman gave her a queer look, shrugged, and walked away. arya ran toward the pier. the wind witch was the ship father had hired to take her home... still waiting! she'd imagined it had sailed ages ago. two of the guardsmen were dicing together while the third walked rounds, his hand on the pommel of his sword. ashamed to let them see her crying like a baby, she stopped to rub at her eyes. her eyes her eyes her eyes, why did... look with your eyes, she heard syrio whisper. arya looked. she knew all of her father's men. the three in the grey cloaks were strangers. you, the one walking rounds called out. what do you want here, boy? the other two looked up from their dice. it was all arya could do not to bolt and run, but she knew that if she did, they would be after her at once. she made herself walk closer. they were looking for a girl, but he thought she was a boy. she'd be a boy, then. want to buy a pigeon? she showed him the dead bird. get out of here, the guardsman said. arya did as he told her. she did not have to pretend to be frightened. behind her, the men went back to their dice. she could not have said how she got back to flea bottom, but she was breathing hard by the time she reached the narrow crooked unpaved streets between the hills. the bottom had a stench to it, a stink of pigsties and stables and tanner's sheds, mixed in with the sour smell of winesinks and cheap whorehouses. arya wound her way through the maze dully. it was not until she caught a whiff of bubbling brown coming through a pot-shop door that she realized her pigeon was gone. it must have slipped from her belt as she ran, or someone had stolen it and she'd never noticed. for a moment she wanted to cry again. she'd have to walk all the way back to the street of flour to find another one that plump. far across the city, bells began to ring. arya glanced up, listening, wondering what the ringing meant this time. what's this now? a fat man called from the pot-shop. the bells again, gods ha'mercy, wailed an old woman. a red-haired whore in a wisp of painted silk pushed open a secondstory window. is it the boy king that's died now? she shouted down, leaning out over the street. ah, that's a boy for you, they never last long. as she laughed, a naked man slid his arms around her from behind, biting her neck and rubbing the heavy white breasts that hung loose beneath her shift. stupid slut, the fat man shouted up. the king's not dead, that's only summoning bells. one tower tolling. when the king dies, they ring every bell in the city. here, quit your biting, or i'll ring your bells, the woman in the window said to the man behind her, pushing him off with an elbow. so who is it died, if not the king? it's a summoning, the fat man repeated. two boys close to arya's age scampered past, splashing through a puddle. the old woman cursed them, but they kept right on going. other people were moving too, heading up the hill to see what the noise was about. arya ran after the slower boy. where you going? she shouted when she was right behind him. what's happening? he glanced back without slowing. the gold cloaks is carryin' him to the sept. who? she yelled, running hard. the hand! they'll be taking his head off, buu says. a passing wagon had left a deep rut in the street. the boy leapt over, but arya never saw it. she tripped and fell, face first, scraping her knee open on a stone and smashing her fingers when her hands hit the hard-packed earth. needle tangled between her legs. she sobbed as she struggled to her knees. the thumb of her left hand was covered with blood. when she sucked on it, she saw that half the thumbnail was gone, ripped off in her fall. her hands throbbed, and her knee was all bloody too. make way! someone shouted from the cross street. make wayfor my lords of redwyne! it was all arya could do to get out of the road before they ran her down, four guardsmen on huge horses, pounding past at a gallop. they wore checked cloaks, blue-and-burgundy. behind them, two young lordlings rode side by side on a pair of chestnut mares alike as peas in a pod. arya had seen them in the bailey a hundred times; the redwyne twins, ser horas and ser hobber, homely youths with orange hair and square, freckled faces. sansa and jeyne poole used to call them ser horror and ser slobber, and giggle whenever they caught sight of them. they did not look funny now. everyone was moving in the same direction, all in a hurry to see what the ringing was all about. the bells seemed louder now, clanging, calling. arya joined the stream of people. her thumb hurt so bad where the nail had broken that it was all she could do not to cry. she bit her lip as she limped along, listening to the excited voices around her. -the king's hand, lord stark. they're carrying him up to baelor's sept. i heard he was dead. soon enough, soon enough. here, i got me a silver stag says they lop his head off. past time, the traitor. the man spat. arya struggled to find a voice. he never- she started, but she was only a child and they talked right over her. fool! they ain't neither going to lop him. since when do they knick traitors on the steps of the great sept? well, they don't mean to anoint him no knight. i heard it was stark killed old king robert. slit his throat in the woods, and when they found him, he stood there cool as you please and said it was some old boar did for his grace. ah, that's not true, it was his own brother did him, that renly, him with his gold antlers. you shut your lying mouth, woman. you don't know what you're saying, his lordship's a fine true man. by the time they reached the street of the sisters, they were packed in shoulder to shoulder. arya let the human current carry her along, up to the top of visenya's hill. the white marble plaza was a solid mass of people, all yammering excitedly at each other and straining to get closer to the great sept of baelor. the bells were very loud here. arya squirmed through the press, ducking between the legs of horses and clutching tight to her sword stick. from the middle of the crowd, all she could see were arms and legs and stomachs, and the seven slender towers of the sept looming overhead. she spotted a wood wagon and thought to climb up on the back where she might be able to see, but others had the same idea. the teamster cursed at them and drove them off with a crack of his whip. arya grew frantic. forcing her way to the front of the crowd, she was shoved up against the stone of a plinth. she looked up at baelor the blessed, the septon king. sliding her stick sword through her belt, arya began to climb. her broken thumbnail left smears of blood on the painted marble, but she made it up, and wedged herself in between the king's feet. that was when she saw her father. lord eddard stood on the high septon's pulpit outside the doors of the sept, supported between two of the gold cloaks. he was dressed in a rich grey velvet doublet with a white wolf sewn on the front in beads, and a grey wool cloak trimmed with fur, but he was thinner than arya had ever seen him, his long face drawn with pain. he was not standing so much as being held up; the cast over his broken leg was grey and rotten. the high septon himself stood behind him, a squat man, grey with age and ponderously fat, wearing long white robes and an immense crown of spun gold and crystal that wreathed his head with rainbows whenever he moved. clustered around the doors of the sept, in front of the raised marble pulpit, were a knot of knights and high lords. joffrey was prominent among them, his raiment all crimson, silk and satin patterned with prancing stags and roaring lions, a gold crown on his head. his queen mother stood beside him in a black mourning gown slashed with crimson, a veil of black diamonds in her hair. arya recognized the hound, wearing a snowy white cloak over his dark grey armor, with four of the kingsguard around him. she saw varys the eunuch gliding among the lords in soft slippers and a patterned damask robe, and she thought the short man with the silvery cape and pointed beard might be the one who had once fought a duel for mother. and there in their midst was sansa, dressed in sky-blue silk, with her long auburn hair washed and curled and silver bracelets on her wrists. arya scowled, wondering what her sister was doing here, why she looked so happy. a long line of gold-cloaked spearmen held back the crowd, commanded by a stout man in elaborate armor, all black lacquer and gold filigree. his cloak had the metallic shimmer of true cloth-of-gold. when the bell ceased to toll, a quiet slowly settled across the great plaza, and her father lifted his head and began to speak, his voice so thin and weak she could scarcely make him out. people behind her began to shout out, what? and louder! the man in the black-and-gold armor stepped up behind father and prodded him sharply. you leave him alone! arya wanted to shout, but she knew no one would listen. she chewed her lip. her father raised his voice and began again. i am eddard stark, lord of winterfell and hand of the king, he said more loudly, his voice carrying across the plaza, and i come before you to confess my treason in the sight of gods and men. no, arya whimpered. below her, the crowd began to scream and shout. taunts and obscenities filled the air. sansa had hidden her face in her hands. her father raised his voice still higher, straining to be heard. i betrayed the faith of my king and the trust of my friend, robert, he shouted. i swore to defend and protect his children, yet before his blood was cold, i plotted to depose and murder his son and seize the throne for myself. let the high septon and baelor the beloved and the seven bear witness to the truth of what i say: joffrey baratheon is the one true heir to the iron throne, and by the grace of all the gods, lord of the seven kingdoms and protector of the realm. a stone came sailing out of the crowd. arya cried out as she saw her father hit. the gold cloaks kept him from falling. blood ran down his face from a deep gash across his forehead. more stones followed. one struck the guard to father's left. another went clanging off the breastplate of the knight in the black-and-gold armor. two of the kingsguard stepped in front of joffrey and the queen, protecting them with their shields. her hand slid beneath her cloak and found needle in its sheath. she tightened her fingers around the grip, squeezing as hard as she had ever squeezed anything. please, gods, keep him safe, she prayed. don't let them hurt my father. the high septon knelt before joffrey and his mother. as we sin, so do we suffer, he intoned, in a deep swelling voice much louder than father's. this man has confessed his crimes in the sight of gods and men, here in this holy place. rainbows danced around his head as he lifted his hands in entreaty. the gods are just, yet blessed baelor taught us that they are also merciful. what shall be done with this traitor, your grace? a thousand voices were screaming, but arya never heard them. prince joffrey... no, king joffrey... stepped out from behind the shields of his kingsguard. my mother bids me let lord eddard take the black, and lady sansa has begged mercy for her father. he looked straight at sansa then, and smiled, and for a moment arya thought that the gods had heard her prayer, until joffrey turned back to the crowd and said, but they have the soft hearts of women. so long as i am your king, treason shall never go unpunished. ser ilyn, bring me his head! the crowd roared, and arya felt the statue of baelor rock as they surged against it. the high septon clutched at the king's cape, and varys came rushing over waving his arms, and even the queen was saying something to him, but joffrey shook his head. lords and knights moved aside as he stepped through, tall and fleshless, a skeleton in iron mail, the king's justice. dimly, as if from far off, arya heard her sister scream. sansa had fallen to her knees, sobbing hysterically. ser ilyn payne climbed the steps of the pulpit. arya wriggled between baelor's feet and threw herself into the crowd, drawing needle. she landed on a man in a butcher's apron, knocking him to the ground. immediately someone slammed into her back and she almost went down herself. bodies closed in around her, stumbling and pushing, trampling on the poor butcher. arya slashed at them with needle. high atop the pulpit, ser ilyn payne gestured and the knight in black-and-gold gave a command. the gold cloaks flung lord eddard to the marble, with his head and chest out over the edge. here, you! an angry voice shouted at arya, but she bowled past, shoving people aside, squirming between them, slamming into anyone in her way. a hand fumbled at her leg and she hacked at it, kicked at shins. a woman stumbled and arya ran up her back, cutting to both sides, but it was no good, no good, there were too many people, no sooner did she make a hole than it closed again. someone buffeted her aside. she could still hear sansa screaming. ser ilyn drew a two-handed greatsword from the scabbard on his back. as he lifted the blade above his head, sunlight seemed to ripple and dance down the dark metal, glinting off an edge sharper than any razor. ice, she thought, he has ice! her tears streamed down her face, blinding her. and then a hand shot out of the press and closed round her arm like a wolf trap, so hard that needle went flying from her hand. arya was wrenched off her feet. she would have fallen if he hadn't held her up, as easy as if she were a doll. a face pressed close to hers, long black hair and tangled beard and rotten teeth. don't look! a thick voice snarled at her. i... i . i... arya sobbed. the old man shook her so hard her teeth rattled. shut your mouth and close your eyes, boy. dimly, as if from far away, she heard a... a noise... a soft sighing sound, as if a million people had let out their breath at once. the old man's fingers dug into her arm, stiff as iron. look at me. yes, that's the way of it, at me. sour wine perfumed his breath. remember, boy? it was the smell that did it. arya saw the matted greasy hair, the patched, dusty black cloak that covered his twisted shoulders, the hard black eyes squinting at her. and she remembered the black brother who had come to visit her father. know me now, do you? there's a bright boy. he spat. they're done here. you'll be coming with me, and you'll be keeping your mouth shut. when she started to reply, he shook her again, even harder. shut, i said. the plaza was beginning to empty. the press dissolved around them as people drifted back to their lives. but arya's life was gone. numb, she trailed along beside... yoren, yes, his name is yoren. she did not recall him finding needle, until he handed the sword back to her. hope you can use that, boy. i'm not- she started. he shoved her into a doorway, thrust dirty fingers through her hair, and gave it a twist, yanking her head back, -not a smart boy, that what you mean to say? he had a knife in his other hand. as the blade flashed toward her face, arya threw herself backward, kicking wildly, wrenching her head from side to side, but he had her by the hair, so strong, she could feel her scalp tearing, and on her lips the salt taste of tears. 