the morning had dawned clear and cold, with a crispness that hinted at the end of summer. they set forth at daybreak to see a man beheaded, twenty in all, and bran rode among them, nervous with excitement. this was the first time he had been deemed old enough to go with his lord father and his brothers to see the king's justice done. it was the ninth year of summer, and the seventh of bran's life. the man had been taken outside a small holdfast in the hills. robb thought he was a wildling, his sword sworn to mance rayder, the king beyond-the-wall. it made bran's skin prickle to think of it. he remembered the hearth tales old nan told them. the wildlings were cruel men, she said, slavers and slayers and thieves. they consorted with giants and ghouls, stole girl children in the dead of night, and drank blood from polished horns. and their women lay with the others in the long night to sire terrible half-human children. but the man they found bound hand and foot to the holdfast wall awaiting the king's justice was old and scrawny, not much taller than robb. he had lost both ears and a finger to frostbite, and he dressed all in black, the same as a brother of the night's watch, except that his furs were ragged and greasy. the breath of man and horse mingled, steaming, in the cold morning air as his lord father had the man cut down from the wall and dragged before them. robb and jon sat tall and still on their horses, with bran between them on his pony, trying to seem older than seven, trying to pretend that he'd seen all this before. a faint wind blew through the holdfast gate. over their heads flapped the banner of the starks of winterfell: a grey direwo if racing across an ice- white field. bran's father sat solemnly on his horse, long brown hair stirring in the wind. his closely trimmed beard was shot with white, making him look older than his thirty-five years. he had a grim cast to his grey eyes this day, and he seemed not at all the man who would sit before the fire in the evening and talk softly of the age of heroes and the children of the forest. he had taken off father's face, bran thought, and donned the face of lord stark of winterfell. there were questions asked and answers given there in the chill of morning, but afterward bran could not recall much of what had been said. finally his lord father gave a command, and two of his guardsmen dragged the ragged man to the ironwood stump in the center of the square. they forced his head down onto the hard black wood. lord eddard stark dismounted and his ward theon greyjoy brought forth the sword. ice, that sword was called. it was as wide across as a man's hand, and taller even than robb. the blade was valyrian steel, spell-forged and dark as smoke. nothing held an edge like valyrian steel. his father peeled off his gloves and handed them to jory cassel, the captain of his household guard. he took hold of ice with both hands and said, in the name of robert of the house baratheon, the first of his name, king of the andals and the rhoynar and the first men, lord of the seven kingdoms and protector of the realm, by the word of eddard of the house stark, lord of winterfell and warden of the north, i do sentence you to die. he lifted the greatsword high above his head. bran's bastard brother jon snow moved closer. keep the pony well in hand, he whispered. and don't look away. father will know if you do. bran kept his pony well in hand, and did not look away. his father took off the man's head with a single sure stroke. blood sprayed out across the snow, as red as summerwine. one of the horses reared and had to be restrained to keep from bolting. bran could not take his eyes off the blood. the snows around the stump drank it eagerly, reddening as he watched. the head bounced off a thick root and rolled. it came up near greyjoy's feet. theon was a lean, dark youth of nineteen who found everything amusing. he laughed, put his boot on the head, and kicked it away. ass, jon muttered, low enough so greyjoy did not hear. he put a hand on bran's shoulder, and bran looked over at his bastard brother. you did well, jon told him solemnly. jon was fourteen, an old hand at justice. it seemed colder on the long ride back to winterfell, though the wind had died by then and the sun was higher in the sky. bran rode with his brothers, well ahead of the main party, his pony struggling hard to keep up with their horses. the deserter died bravely, robb said. he was big and broad and growing every day, with his mother's coloring, the fair skin, red-brown hair, and blue eyes of the tullys of riverrun. he had courage, at the least. no, jon snow said quietly. it was not courage. this one was dead of fear. you could see it in his eyes, stark. jon's eyes were a grey so dark they seemed almost black, but there was little they did not see. he was of an age with robb, but they did not look alike. jon was slender where robb was muscular, dark where robb was fair, graceful and quick where his half brother was strong and fast. robb was not impressed. the others take his eyes, he swore. he died well. race you to the bridge? done, jon said, kicking his horse forward. robb cursed and followed, and they galloped off down the trail, robb laughing and hooting, jon silent and intent. the hooves of their horses kicked up showers of snow as they went. bran did not try to follow. his pony could not keep up. he had seen the ragged man's eyes, and he was thinking of them now. after a while, the sound of robb's laughter receded, and the woods grew silent again. so deep in thought was he that he never heard the rest of the party until his father moved up to ride beside him. are you well, bran? he asked, not unkindly. yes, father, bran told him. he looked up. wrapped in his furs and leathers, mounted on his great warhorse, his lord father loomed over him like a giant. robb says the man died bravely, but jon says he was afraid. what do you think? his father asked. bran thought about it. can a man still be brave if he's afraid? that is the only time a man can be brave, his father told him. do you understand why i did it? he was a wildling, bran said. they carry off women and sell them to the others. his lord father smiled. old nan has been telling you stories again. in truth, the man was an oathbreaker, a deserter from the night's watch. no man is more dangerous. the deserter knows his life is forfeit if he is taken, so he will not flinch from any crime, no matter how vile. but you mistake me. the question was not why the man had to die, but why i must do it. bran had no answer for that. king robert has a headsman, he said, uncertainly. he does, his father admitted. as did the targaryen kings before him. yet our way is the older way. the blood of the first men still flows in the veins of the starks, and we hold to the belief that the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword. if you would take a man's life, you owe it to him to look into his eyes and hear his final words. and if you cannot bear to do that, then perhaps the man does not deserve to die. one day, bran, you will be robb's bannerman, holding a keep of your own for your brother and your king, and justice will fall to you. when that day comes, you must take no pleasure in the task, but neither must you look away. a ruler who hides behind paid executioners soon forgets what death is. that was when jon reappeared on the crest of the hill before them. he waved and shouted down at them. father, bran, come quickly, see what robb has found! then he was gone again. jory rode up beside them. trouble, my lord? beyond a doubt, his lord father said. come, let us see what mischief my sons have rooted out now. he sent his horse into a trot. jory and bran and the rest came after. they found robb on the riverbank north of the bridge, with jon still mounted beside him. the late summer snows had been heavy this moonturn. robb stood knee-deep in white, his hood pulled back so the sun shone in his hair. he was cradling something in his arm, while the boys talked in hushed, excited voices. the riders picked their way carefully through the drifts, groping for solid footing on the hidden, uneven ground. jory cassel and theon greyjoy were the first to reach the boys. greyjoy was laughing and joking as he rode. bran heard the breath go out of him. gods! he exclaimed, struggling to keep control of his horse as he reached for his sword. jory's sword was already out. robb, get away from it! he called as his horse reared under him. robb grinned and looked up from the bundle in his arms. she can't hurt you, he said. she's dead, jory. bran was afire with curiosity by then. he would have spurred the pony faster, but his father made them dismount beside the bridge and approach on foot. bran jumped off and ran. by then jon, jory, and theon greyjoy had all dismounted as well. what in the seven hells is it? greyjoy was saying. a wolf, robb told him. a freak, greyjoy said. look at the size of it. bran's heart was thumping in his chest as he pushed through a waist-high drift to his brothers' side. half-buried in bloodstained snow, a huge dark shape slumped in death. ice had formed in its shaggy grey fur, and the faint smell of corruption clung to it like a woman's perfume. bran glimpsed blind eyes crawling with maggots, a wide mouth full of yellowed teeth. but it was the size of it that made him gasp. it was bigger than his pony, twice the size of the largest hound in his father's kennel. it's no freak, jon said calmly. that's a direwolf. they grow larger than the other kind. theon greyjoy said, there's not been a direwolf sighted south of the wall in two hundred years. i see one now, jon replied. bran tore his eyes away from the monster. that was when he noticed the bundle in robb's arms. he gave a cry of delight and moved closer. the pup was a tiny ball of grey-black fur, its eyes still closed. it nuzzled blindly against robb's chest as he cradled it, searching for milk among his leathers, making a sad little whimpery sound. bran reached out hesitantly. go on, robb told him. you can touch him. bran gave the pup a quick nervous stroke, then turned as jon said, here you go. his half brother put a second pup into his arms. there are five of them. bran sat down in the snow and hugged the wolf pup to his face. its fur was soft and warm against his cheek. direwolves loose in the realm, after so many years, muttered hullen, the master of horse. i like it not. it is a sign, jory said. father frowned. this is only a dead animal, jory, he said. yet he seemed troubled. snow crunched under his boots as he moved around the body. do we know what killed her? there's something in the throat, robb told him, proud to have found the answer before his father even asked. there, just under the jaw... his father knelt and groped under the beast's head with his hand. he gave a yank and held it up for all to see. a foot of shattered antler, tines snapped off, all wet with blood. a sudden silence descended over the party. the men looked at the antler uneasily, and no one dared to speak. even bran could sense their fear, though he did not understand. his father tossed the antler to the side and cleansed his hands in the snow. i'm surprised she lived long enough to whelp, he said. his voice broke the spell. maybe she didn't, jory said. i've heard tales... maybe the bitch was already dead when the pups came. born with the dead, another man put in. worse luck. no matter, said hullen. they be dead soon enough too. bran gave a wordless cry of dismay. the sooner the better, theon greyjoy agreed. he drew his sword. give the beast here, bran. the little thing squirmed against him, as if it heard and understood. no! bran cried out fiercely. it's mine. put away your sword, greyjoy, robb said. for a moment he sounded as commanding as their father, like the lord he would someday be. we will keep these pups. you cannot do that, boy, said harwin, who was hullen's son. it be a mercy to kill them, hullen said. bran looked to his lord father for rescue, but got only a frown, a furrowed brow. hullen speaks truly, son. better a swift death than a hard one from cold and starvation. no! he could feel tears welling in his eyes, and he looked away. he did not want to cry in front of his father. robb resisted stubbornly. ser rodrik's red bitch whelped again last week, he said. it was a small litter, only two live pups. she'll have milk enough. she'll rip them apart when they try to nurse. lord stark, jon said. it was strange to hear him call father that, so formal. bran looked at him with desperate hope. there are five pups, he told father. three male, two female. what of it, jon? you have five trueborn children, jon said. three sons, two daughters. the direwolf is the sigil of your house. your children were meant to have these pups, my lord. bran saw his father's face change, saw the other men exchange glances. he loved jon with all his heart at that moment. even at seven, bran understood what his brother had done. the count had come right only because jon had omitted himself. he had included the girls, included even rickon, the baby, but not the bastard who bore the surname snow, the name that custom decreed be given to all those in the north unlucky enough to be born with no name of their own. their father understood as well. you want no pup for yourself, jon? he asked softly. the direwolf graces the banners of house stark, jon pointed out. i am no stark, father. their lord father regarded jon thoughtfully. robb rushed into the silence he left. i will nurse him myself, father, he promised. i will soak a towel with warm milk, and give him suck from that. me too! bran echoed. the lord weighed his sons long and carefully with his eyes. easy to say, and harder to do. i will not have you wasting the servants' time with this. if you want these pups, you will feed them yourselves. is that understood? bran nodded eagerly. the pup squirmed in his grasp, licked at his face with a warm tongue. you must train them as well, their father said. you must train them. the kennelmaster will have nothing to do with these monsters, i promise you that. and the gods help you if you neglect them, or brutalize them, or train them badly. these are not dogs to beg for treats and slink off at a kick. a direwolf will rip a man's arm off his shoulder as easily as a dog will kill a rat. are you sure you want this? yes, father, bran said. yes, robb agreed. the pups may die anyway, despite all you do. they won't die, robb said. we won't let them die. keep them, then. jory, desmond, gather up the other pups. it's time we were back to winterfell. it was not until they were mounted and on their way that bran allowed himself to taste the sweet air of victory. by then, his pup was snuggled inside his leathers, warm against him, safe for the long ride home. bran was wondering what to name him. halfway across the bridge, jon pulled up suddenly. what is it, jon? their lord father asked. can't you hear it? bran could hear the wind in the trees, the clatter of their hooves on the ironwood planks, the whimpering of his hungry pup, but jon was listening to something else. there, jon said. he swung his horse around and galloped back across the bridge. they watched him dismount where the direwolf lay dead in the snow, watched him kneel. a moment later he was riding back to them, smiling. he must have crawled away from the others, jon said. or been driven away, their father said, looking at the sixth pup. his fur was white, where the rest of the litter was grey. his eyes were as red as the blood of the ragged man who had died that morning. bran thought it curious that this pup alone would have opened his eyes while the others were still blind. an albino, theon greyjoy said with wry amusement. this one will die even faster than the others. jon snow gave his father's ward a long, chilling look. i think not, greyjoy, he said. this one belongs to me. the hunt left at dawn. the king wanted wild boar at the feast tonight. prince joffrey rode with his father, so robb had been allowed to join the hunters as well. uncle benjen, jory, theon greyjoy, ser rodrik, and even the queen's funny little brother had all ridden out with them. it was the last hunt, after all. on the morrow they left for the south. bran had been left behind with jon and the girls and rickon. but rickon was only a baby and the girls were only girls and jon and his wolf were nowhere to be found. bran did not look for him very hard. he thought jon was angry at him. jon seemed to be angry at everyone these days. bran did not know why. he was going with uncle ben to the wall, to join the night's watch. that was almost as good as going south with the king. robb was the one they were leaving behind, not jon. for days, bran could scarcely wait to be off. he was going to ride the kingsroad on a horse of his own, not a pony but a real horse. his father would be the hand of the king, and they were going to live in the red castle at king's landing, the castle the dragonlords had built. old nan said there were ghosts there, and dungeons where terrible things had been done, and dragon heads on the walls. it gave bran a shiver just to think of it, but he was not afraid. how could he be afraid? his father would be with him, and the king with all his knights and sworn swords. bran was going to be a knight himself someday, one of the kingsguard. old nan said they were the finest swords in all the realm. there were only seven of them, and they wore white armor and had no wives or children, but lived only to serve the king. bran knew all the stories. their names were like music to him. serwyn of the mirror shield. ser ryam redwyne. prince aemon the dragonknight. the twins ser erryk and ser arryk, who had died on one another's swords hundreds of years ago, when brother fought sister in the war the singers called the dance of the dragons. the white bull, gerold hightower. ser arthur dayne, the sword of the morning. barristan the bold. two of the kingsguard had come north with king robert. bran had watched them with fascination, never quite daring to speak to them. ser boros was a bald man with a jowly face, and ser meryn had droopy eyes and a beard the color of rust. ser jaime lannister looked more like the knights in the stories, and he was of the kingsguard too, but robb said he had killed the old mad king and shouldn't count anymore. the greatest living knight was ser barristan selmy, barristan the bold, the lord commander of the kingsguard. father had promised that they would meet ser barristan when they reached king's landing, and bran had been marking the days on his wall, eager to depart, to see a world he had only dreamed of and begin a life he could scarcely imagine. yet now that the last day was at hand, suddenly bran felt lost. winterfell had been the only home he had ever known. his father had told him that he ought to say his farewells today, and he had tried. after the hunt had ridden out, he wandered through the castle with his wolf at his side, intending to visit the ones who would be left behind, old nan and gage the cook, mikken in his smithy, hodor the stableboy who smiled so much and took care of his pony and never said anything but hodor, the man in the glass gardens who gave him a blackberry when he came to visit... but it was no good. he had gone to the stable first, and seen his pony there in its stall, except it wasn't his pony anymore, he was getting a real horse and leaving the pony behind, and all of a sudden bran just wanted to sit down and cry. he turned and ran off before hodor and the other stableboys could see the tears in his eyes. that was the end of his farewells. instead bran spent the morning alone in the godswood, trying to teach his wolf to fetch a stick, and failing. the wolfling was smarter than any of the hounds in his father's kennel and bran would have sworn he understood every word that was said to him, but he showed very little interest in chasing sticks. he was still trying to decide on a name. robb was calling his grey wind, because he ran so fast. sansa had named hers lady, and arya named hers after some old witch queen in the songs, and little rickon called his shaggydog, which bran thought was a pretty stupid name for a direwolf jon's wolf, the white one, was ghost. bran wished he had thought of that first, even though his wolf wasn't white. he had tried a hundred names in the last fortnight, but none of them sounded right. finally he got tired of the stick game and decided to go climbing. he hadn't been up to the broken tower for weeks with everything that had happened, and this might be his last chance. he raced across the godswood, taking the long way around to avoid the pool where the heart tree grew. the heart tree had always frightened him; trees ought not have eyes, bran thought, or leaves that looked like hands. his wolf came sprinting at his heels. you stay here, he told him at the base of the sentinel tree near the armory wall. lie down. that's right. now stay- the wolf did as he was told. bran scratched him behind the ears, then turned away, jumped, grabbed a low branch, and pulled himself up. he was halfway up the tree, moving easily from limb to limb, when the wolf got to his feet and began to howl. bran looked back down. his wolf fell silent, staring up at him through slitted yellow eyes. a strange chill went through him. he began to climb again. once more the wolf howled. quiet, he yelled. sit down. stay. you're worse than mother. the howling chased him all the way up the tree, until finally he jumped off onto the armory roof and out of sight. the rooftops of winterfell were bran's second home. his mother often said that bran could climb before he could walk. bran could not remember when he first learned to walk, but he could not remember when he started to climb either, so he supposed it must be true. to a boy, winterfell was a grey stone labyrinth of walls and towers and courtyards and tunnels spreading out in all directions. in the older parts of the castle, the halls slanted up and down so that you couldn't even be sure what floor you were on. the place had grown over the centuries like some monstrous stone tree, maester luwin told him once, and its branches were gnarled and thick and twisted, its roots sunk deep into the earth. when he got out from under it and scrambled up near the sky, bran could see all of winterfell in a glance. he liked the way it looked, spread out beneath him, only birds wheeling over his head while all the life of the castle went on below. bran could perch for hours among the shapeless, rain-worn gargoyles that brooded over the first keep, watching it all: the men drilling with wood and steel in the yard, the cooks tending their vegetables in the glass garden, restless dogs running back and forth in the kennels, the silence of the godswood, the girls gossiping beside the washing well. it made him feel like he was lord of the castle, in a way even robb would never know. it taught him winterfell's secrets too. the builders had not even leveled the earth; there were hills and valleys behind the walls of winterfell. there was a covered bridge that went from the fourth floor of the bell tower across to the second floor of the rookery. bran knew about that. and he knew you could get inside the inner wall by the south gate, climb three floors and run all the way around winterfell through a narrow tunnel in the stone, and then come out on ground level at the north gate, with a hundred feet of wall looming over you. even maester luwin didn't know that, bran was convinced. his mother was terrified that one day bran would slip off a wall and kill himself. he told her that he wouldn't, but she never believed him. once she made him promise that he would stay on the ground. he had managed to keep that promise for almost a fortnight, miserable every day, until one night he had gone out the window of his bedroom when his brothers were fast asleep. he confessed his crime the next day in a fit of guilt. lord eddard ordered him to the godswood to cleanse himself. guards were posted to see that bran remained there alone all night to reflect on his disobedience. the next morning bran was nowhere to be seen. they finally found him fast asleep in the upper branches of the tallest sentinel in the grove. as angry as he was, his father could not help but laugh. you're not my son, he told bran when they fetched him down, you're a squirrel. so be it. if you must climb, then climb, but try not to let your mother see you. bran did his best, although he did not think he ever really footed her. since his father would not forbid it, she turned to others. old nan told him a story about a bad little boy who climbed too high and was struck down by lightning, and how afterward the crows came to peck out his eyes. bran was not impressed. there were crows' nests atop the broken tower, where no one ever went but him, and sometimes he filled his pockets with corn before he climbed up there and the crows ate it right out of his hand. none of them had ever shown the slightest bit of interest in pecking out his eyes. later, maester luwin built a little pottery boy and dressed him in bran's clothes and flung him off the wall into the yard below, to demonstrate what would happen to bran if he fell. that had been fun, but afterward bran just looked at the maester and said, i'm not made of clay. and anyhow, i never fall. then for a while the guards would chase him whenever they saw him on the roofs, and try to haul him down. that was the best time of all. it was like playing a game with his brothers, except that bran always won. none of the guards could climb half so well as bran, not even jory. most of the time they never saw him anyway. people never looked up. that was another thing he liked about climbing; it was almost like being invisible. he liked how it felt too, pulling himself up a wall stone by stone, fingers and toes digging hard into the small crevices between. he always took off his boots and went barefoot when he climbed; it made him feel as if he had four hands instead of two. he liked the deep, sweet ache it left in the muscles afterward. he liked the way the air tasted way up high, sweet and cold as a winter peach. he liked the birds: the crows in the broken tower, the tiny little sparrows that nested in cracks between the stones, the ancient owl that slept in the dusty loft above the old armory. bran knew them all. most of all, he liked going places that no one else could go, and seeing the grey sprawl of winterfell in a way that no one else ever saw it. it made the whole castle bran's secret place. his favorite haunt was the broken tower. once it had been a watchtower, the tallest in winterfell. a long time ago, a hundred years before even his father had been born, a lightning strike had set it afire. the top third of the structure had collapsed inward, and the tower had never been rebuilt. sometimes his father sent ratters into the base of the tower, to clean out the nests they always found among the jumble of fallen stones and charred and rotten beams. but no one ever got up to the jagged top of the structure now except for bran and the crows. he knew two ways to get there. you could climb straight up the side of the tower itself, but the stones were loose, the mortar that held them together long gone to ash, and bran never liked to put his full weight on them. the best way was to start from the godswood, shinny up the tall sentinel, and cross over the armory and the guards hall, leaping roof to roof, barefoot so the guards wouldn't hear you overhead. that brought you up to the blind side of the first keep, the oldest part of the castle, a squat round fortress that was taller than it looked. only rats and spiders lived there now but the old stones still made for good climbing. you could go straight up to where the gargoyles leaned out blindly over empty space, and swing from gargoyle to gargoyle, hand over hand, around to the north side. from there, if you really stretched, you could reach out and pull yourself over to the broken tower where it leaned close. the last part was the scramble up the blackened stones to the eyrie, no more than ten feet, and then the crows would come round to see if you'd brought any corn. bran was moving from gargoyle to gargoyle with the ease of long practice when he heard the voices. he was so startled he almost lost his grip. the first keep had been empty all his life. i do not like it, a woman was saying. there was a row of windows beneath him, and the voice was drifting out of the last window on this side. you should be the hand. gods forbid, a man's voice replied lazily. it's not an honor i'd want. there's far too much work involved. bran hung, listening, suddenly afraid to go on. they might glimpse his feet if he tried to swing by. don't you see the danger this puts us in? the woman said. robert loves the man like a brother. robert can barely stomach his brothers. not that i blame him. stannis would be enough to give anyone indigestion. don't play the fool. stannis and renly are one thing, and eddard stark is quite another. robert will listen to stark. damn them both. i should have insisted that he name you, but i was certain stark would refuse him. we ought to count ourselves fortunate, the man said. the king might as easily have named one of his brothers, or even littlefinger, gods help us. give me honorable enemies rather than ambitious ones, and i'll sleep more easily by night. they were talking about father, bran realized. he wanted to hear more. a few more feet... but they would see him if he swung out in front of the window. we will have to watch him carefully, the woman said. i would sooner watch you, the man said. he sounded bored. come back here. lord eddard has never taken any interest in anything that happened south of the neck, the woman said. never. i tell you, he means to move against us. why else would he leave the seat of his power? a hundred reasons. duty. honor. he yearns to write his name large across the book of history, to get away from his wife, or both. perhaps he just wants to be warm for once in his life. his wife is lady arryn's sister. it's a wonder lysa was not here to greet us with her accusations. bran looked down. there was a narrow ledge beneath the window, only a few inches wide. he tried to lower himself toward it. too far. he would never reach. you fret too much. lysa arryn is a frightened cow. that frightened cow shared jon arryn's bed. if she knew anything, she would have gone to robert before she fled king's landing. when he had already agreed to foster that weakling son of hers at casterly rock? i think not. she knew the boy's life would be hostage to her silence. she may grow bolder now that he's safe atop the eyrie. mothers. the man made the word sound like a curse. i think birthing does something to your minds. you are all mad. he laughed. it was a bitter sound. let lady arryn grow as bold as she likes. whatever she knows, whatever she thinks she knows, she has no proof. he paused a moment. or does she? do you think the king will require proof? the woman said. i tell you, he loves me not. and whose fault is that, sweet sister? bran studied the ledge. he could drop down. it was too narrow to land on, but if he could catch hold as he fell past, pull himself up... except that might make a noise, draw them to the window. he was not sure what he was hearing, but he knew it was not meant for his ears. you are as blind as robert, the woman was saying. if you mean i see the same thing, yes, the man said. i see a man who would sooner die than betray his king. he betrayed one already, or have you forgotten? the woman said. oh, i don't deny he's loyal to robert, that's obvious. what happens when robert dies and joff takes the throne? and the sooner that comes to pass, the safer we'll all be. my husband grows more restless every day. having stark beside him will only make him worse. he's still in love with the sister, the insipid little dead sixteen-year-old. how long till he decides to put me aside for some new lyanna? bran was suddenly very frightened. he wanted nothing so much as to go back the way he had come, to find his brothers. only what would he tell them? he had to get closer, bran realized. he had to see who was talking. the man sighed. you should think less about the future and more about the pleasures at hand. stop that! the woman said. bran heard the sudden slap of flesh on flesh, then the man's laughter. bran pulled himself up, climbed over the gargoyle, crawled out onto the roof. this was the easy way. he moved across the roof to the next gargoyle, right above the window of the room where they were talking. all this talk is getting very tiresome, sister, the man said. come here and be quiet. bran sat astride the gargoyle, tightened his legs around it, and swung himself around, upside down. he hung by his legs and slowly stretched his head down toward the window. the world looked strange upside down. a courtyard swam dizzily below him, its stones still wet with melted snow. bran looked in the window. inside the room, a man and a woman were wrestling. they were both naked. bran could not tell who they were. the man's back was to him, and his body screened the woman from view as he pushed her up against a wall. there were soft, wet sounds. bran realized they were kissing. he watched, wide-eyed and frightened, his breath tight in his throat. the man had a hand down between her legs, and he must have been hurting her there, because the woman started to moan, low in her throat. stop it, she said, stop it, stop it. oh, please... but her voice was low and weak, and she did not push him away. her hands buried themselves in his hair, his tangled golden hair, and pulled his face down to her breast. bran saw her face. her eyes were closed and her mouth was open, moaning. her golden hair swung from side to side as her head moved back and forth, but still he recognized the queen. he must have made a noise. suddenly her eyes opened, and she was staring right at him. she screamed. everything happened at once then.' the woman pushed the man away wildly, shouting and pointing. bran tried to pull himself up, bending double as he reached for the gargoyle. he was in too much of a hurry. his hand scraped uselessly across smooth stone, and in his panic his legs slipped, and suddenly he was failing. there was an instant of vertigo, a sickening lurch as the window flashed past. he shot out a hand, grabbed for the ledge, lost it, caught it again with his other hand. he swung against the building, hard. the impact took the breath out of him. bran dangled, one-handed, panting. faces appeared in the window above him. the queen. and now bran recognized the man beside her. they looked as much alike as reflections in a mirror. he saw us, the woman said shrilly. so he did, the man said. bran's fingers started to slip. he grabbed the ledge with his other hand. fingernails dug into unyielding stone. the man reached down. take my hand, he said. before you fall. bran seized his arm and held on tight with all his strength. the man yanked him up to the ledge. what are you doing? the woman demanded. the man ignored her. he was very strong. he stood bran up on the sill. how old are you, boy? seven, bran said, shaking with relief. his fingers had dug deep gouges in the man's forearm. he let go sheepishly. the man looked over at the woman. the things i do for love, he said with loathing. he gave bran a shove. screaming, bran went backward out the window into empty air. there was nothing to grab on to. the courtyard rushed up to meet him. somewhere off in the distance, a wolf was howling. crows circled the broken tower, waiting for corn. it seemed as though he had been falling for years. fly, a voice whispered in the darkness, but bran did not know'thow to fly, so all he could do was fall. maester luwin made a little boy of clay, baked him till he was hard and brittle, dressed him in bran's clothes, and flung him off a roof. bran remembered the way he shattered. but i never fall, he said, falling. the ground was so far below him he could barely make it out through the grey mists that whirled around him, but he could feel how fast he was falling, and he knew what was waiting for him down there. even in dreams, you could not fall forever. he would wake up in the instant before he hit the ground, he knew. you always woke up in the instant before you hit the ground. and if you don't? the voice asked. the ground was closer now, still far far away, a thousand miles away, but closer than it had been. it was cold here in the darkness. there was no sun, no stars, only the ground below coming up to smash him, and the grey mists, and the whispering voice. he wanted to cry. not cry. fly. i can't fly, bran said. i can't, i can't how do you know? have you ever tried? the voice was high and thin. bran looked around to see where it was coming from. a crow was spiraling down with him, just out of reach, following him as he fell. help me, he said. i'm trying, the crow replied. say, got any corn? bran reached into his pocket as the darkness spun dizzily around him. when he pulled his hand out, golden kernels slid from between his fingers into the air. they fell with him. the crow landed on his hand and began to eat. are you really a crow? bran asked. are you really falling? the crow asked back. it's just a dream, bran said. is it? asked the crow. i'll wake up when i hit the ground, bran told the bird. you'll die when you hit the ground, the crow said. it went back to eating corn. bran looked down. he could see mountains now, their peaks white with snow, and the silver thread of rivers in dark woods. he closed his eyes and began to cry. that won't do any good, the crow said. i told you, the answer is flying, not crying. how hard can it be? i'm doing it. the crow took to the air and flapped around bran's hand. you have wings, bran pointed out. maybe you do too. bran felt along his shoulders, groping for feathers. there are different kinds of wings, the crow said. bran was staring at his arms, his legs. he was so skinny, just skin stretched taut over bones. had he always been so thin? he tried to remember. a face swam up at him out of the grey mist, shining with light, golden. the things i do for love, it said. bran screamed. the crow took to the air, cawing. not that, it shrieked at him. forget that, you do not need it now, put it aside, put it away. it landed on bran's shoulder, and pecked at him, and the shining golden face was gone. bran was falling faster than ever. the grey mists howled around him as he plunged toward the earth below. what are you doing to me? he asked the crow, tearful. teaching you how to fly. i can't fly! you're flying tight now. i'm falling! every flight begins with a fall, the crow said. look down. i'm afraid... lookdown! bran looked down, and felt his insides turn to water. the ground was rushing up at him now. the whole world was spread out below him, a tapestry of white and brown and green. he could see everything so clearly that for a moment he forgot to be afraid. he could see the whole realm, and everyone in it. he saw winterfell as the eagles see it, the tall towers looking squat and stubby from above, the castle walls just lines in the dirt. he saw maester luwin on his balcony, studying the sky through a polished bronze tube and frowning as he made notes in a book. he saw his brother robb, taller and stronger than he remembered him, practicing swordplay in the yard with real steel in his hand. he saw hodor, the simple giant from the stables, carrying an anvil to mikken's forge, hefting it onto his shoulder as easily as another man might heft a bale of hay. at the heart of the godswood, the great white weirwood brooded over its reflection in the black pool, its leaves rustling in a chill wind. when it felt bran watching, it lifted its eyes from the still waters and stared back at him knowingly. he looked east, and saw a galley racing across the waters of the bite. he saw his mother sitting alone in a cabin, looking at a bloodstained knife on a table in front of her, as the rowers pulled at their oars and ser rodrik leaned across a rail, shaking and heaving. a storm was gathering ahead of them, a vast dark roaring lashed by lightning, but somehow they could not see it. he looked south, and saw the great blue-green rush of the trident. he saw his father pleading with the king, his face etched with grief. he saw sansa crying herself to sleep at night, and he saw arya watching in silence and holding her secrets hard in her heart. there were shadows all around them. one shadow was dark as ash, with the terrible face of a hound. another was armored like the sun, golden and beautiful. over them both loomed a giant in armor made of stone, but when he opened his visor, there was nothing inside but darkness and thick black blood. he lifted his eyes and saw clear across the narrow sea, to the free cities and the green dothraki sea and beyond, to vaes dothrak under its mountain, to the fabled lands of the jade sea, to asshai by the shadow, where dragons stirred beneath the sunrise. finally he looked north. he saw the wall shining like blue crystal, and his bastard brother jon sleeping alone in a cold bed, his skin growing pale and hard as the memory of all warmth fled from him. and he looked past the wall, past endless forests cloaked in snow, past the frozen shore and the great blue- white rivers of ice and the dead plains where nothing grew or lived. north and north and north he looked, to the curtain of light at the end of the world, and then beyond that curtain. he looked deep into the heart of winter, and then he cried out, afraid, and the heat of his tears burned on his cheeks. now you know, the crow whispered as it sat on his shoulder. now you know why you must live. why? bran said, not understanding, falling, falling. because winter is coming. bran looked at the crow on his shoulder, and the crow looked back. it had three eyes, and the third eye was full of a terrible knowledge. bran looked down. there was nothing below him now but snow and cold and death, a frozen wasteland where jagged blue-white spires of ice waited to embrace him. they flew up at him like spears. he saw the bones of a thousand other dreamers impaled upon their points. he was desperately afraid. can a man still be brave if he's afraid? he heard his own voice saying, small and far away. and his father's voice replied to him. that is the only time a man can be brave. now, bran, the crow urged. choose. fly or die. death reached for him, screaming. bran spread his arms and flew. wings unseen drank the wind and filled and pulled him upward. the terrible needles of ice receded below him. the sky opened up above. bran soared. it was better than climbing. it was better than anything. the world grew small beneath him. i'm flying! he cried out in delight. i've noticed, said the three-eyed crow. it took to the air, flapping its wings in his face, slowing him, blinding him. he faltered in the air as its pinions beat against his cheeks. its beak stabbed at him fiercely, and bran felt a sudden blinding pain in the middle of his forehead, between his eyes. what are you doing? he shrieked. the crow opened its beak and cawed at him, a shrill scream of fear, and the grey mists shuddered and swirled around him and ripped away like a veil, and he saw that the crow was really a woman, a serving woman with long black hair, and he knew her from somewhere, from winterfell, yes, that was it, he remembered her now, and then he realized that he was in winterfell, in a bed- high in some chilly tower room, and the black-haired woman dropped a basin of water to shatter on the floor and ran down the steps, shouting, he's awake, he's awake, he's awake. bran touched his forehead, between his eyes. the place where the crow had pecked him was still burning, but there was nothing there, no blood, no wound. he felt weak and dizzy. he tried to get out of bed, but nothing happened. and then there was movement beside the bed, and something landed lightly on his legs. he felt nothing. a pair of yellow eyes looked into his own, shining like the sun. the window was open and it was cold in the room, but the warmth that came off the wolf enfolded him like a hot bath. his pup, bran realized... or was it? he was so big now. he reached out to pet him, his hand trembling like a leaf. when his brother robb burst into the room, breathless from his dash up the tower steps, the direwolf was licking bran's face. bran looked up calmly. his name is summer, he said. in the yard below, rickon ran with the wolves. bran watched from his window seat. wherever the boy went, grey wind was there first, loping ahead to cut him off, until rickon saw him, screamed in delight, and went pelting off in another direction. shaggydog ran at his heels, spinning and snapping if the other wolves came too close. his fur had darkened until he was all black, and his eyes were green fire. bran's summer came last. he was silver and smoke, with eyes of yellow gold that saw all there was to see. smaller than grey wind, and more wary. bran thought he was the smartest of the litter. he could hear his brother's breathless laughter as rickon dashed across the hardpacked earth on little baby legs. his eyes stung. he wanted to be down there, laughing and running. angry at the thought, bran knuckled away the tears before they could fall. his eighth name day had come and gone. he was almost a man grown now, too old to cry. it was just a lie, he said bitterly, remembering the crow from his dream. i can't fly. i can't even run. crows are all liars, old nan agreed, from the chair where she sat doing her needlework. i know a story about a crow. i don't want any more stories, bran snapped, his voice petulant. he had liked old nan and her stories once. before. but it was different now. they left her with him all day now, to watch over him and clean him and keep him from being lonely, but she just made it worse. i hate your stupid stories. the old woman smiled at him toothlessly. my stories? no, my little lord, not mine. the stories are, before me and after me, before you too. she was a very ugly old woman, bran thought spitefully; shrunken and wrinkled, almost blind, too weak to climb stairs, with only a few wisps of white hair left to cover a mottled pink scalp. no one really knew how old she was, but his father said she'd been called old nan even when he was a boy. she was the oldest person in winterfell for certain, maybe the oldest person in the seven kingdoms. nan had come to the castle as a wet nurse for a brandon stark whose mother had died birthing him. he had been an older brother of lord rickard, bran's grandfather, or perhaps a younger brother, or a brother to lord rickard's father. sometimes old nan told it one way and sometimes another. in all the stories the little boy died at three of a summer chill, but old nan stayed on at winterfell with her own children. she had lost both her sons to the war when king robert won the throne, and her grandson was killed on the walls of pyke during balon greyjoy's rebellion. her daughters had long ago married and moved away and died. all that was left of her own blood was hodor, the simpleminded giant who worked in the stables, but old nan just lived on and on, doing her needlework and telling her stories. i don't care whose stories they are, bran told her, i hate them. he didn't want stories and he didn't want old nan. he wanted his mother and father. he wanted to go running with summer loping beside him. he wanted to climb the broken tower and feed corn to the crows. he wanted to ride his pony again with his brothers. he wanted it to be the way it had been before. i know a story about a boy who hated stories, old nan said with her stupid little smile, her needles moving all the while, click click click, until bran was ready to scream at her. it would never be the way it had been, he knew. the crow had tricked him into flying, but when he woke up he was broken and the world was changed. they had all left him, his father and his mother and his sisters and even his bastard brother jon. his father had promised he would ride a real horse to king's landing, but they'd gone without him. maester luwin had sent a bird after lord eddard with a message, and another to mother and a third to jon on the wall, but there had been no answers. ofttimes the birds are lost, child, the maester had told him. there's many a mile and many a hawk between here and king's landing, the message may not have reached them. yet to bran it felt as if they had all died while he had slept... or perhaps bran had died, and they had forgotten him. jory and ser rodrik and vayon poole had gone too, and hullen and harwin and fat tom and a quarter of the guard. only robb and baby rickon were still here, and robb was changed. he was robb the lord now, or trying to be. he wore a real sword and never smiled. his days were spent drilling the guard and practicing his swordplay, making the yard ring with the sound of steel as bran watched forlornly from his window. at night he closeted himself with maester luwin, talking or going over account books. sometimes he would ride out with hallis mollen and be gone for days at a time, visiting distant holdfasts. whenever he was away more than a day, rickon would cry and ask bran if robb was ever coming back. even when he was home at winterfell, robb the lord seemed to have more time for hallis mollen and theon greyjoy than he ever did for his brothers. i could tell you the story about brandon the builder, old nan said. that was always your favorite. thousands and thousands of years ago, brandon the builder had raised winterfell, and some said the wall. bran knew the story, but it had never been his favorite. maybe one of the other brandons had liked that story. sometimes nan would talk to him as if he were her brandon, the baby she had nursed all those years ago, and sometimes she confused him with his uncle brandon, who was killed by the mad king before bran was even born. she had lived so long, mother had told him once, that all the brandon starks had become one person in her head. that's not my favorite, he said. my favorites were the scary ones. he heard some sort of commotion outside and turned back to the window. rickon was running across the yard toward the gatehouse, the wolves following him, but the tower faced the wrong way for bran to see what was happening. he smashed a fist on his thigh in frustration and felt nothing. oh, my sweet summer child, old nan said quietly, what do you know of fear? fear is for the winter, my little lord, when the snows fall a hundred feet deep and the ice wind comes howling out of the north. fear is for the long night, when the sun hides its face for years at a time, and little children are born and live and die all in darkness while the direwolves grow gaunt and hungry, and the white walkers move through the woods. you mean the others, bran said querulously. the others, old nan agreed. thousands and thousands of years ago, a winter fell that was cold and hard and endless beyond all memory of man. there came a night that lasted a generation, and kings shivered and died in their castles even as the swineherds in their hovels. women smothered their children rather than see them starve, and cried, and felt their tears freeze on their cheeks. her voice and her needles fell silent, and she glanced up at bran with pale, filmy eyes and asked, so, child. this is the sort of story you like? well, bran said reluctantly, yes, only... old nan nodded. in that darkness, the others came for the first time, she said as her needles went click click click. they were cold things, dead things, that hated iron and fire and the touch of the sun, and every creature with hot blood in its veins. they swept over holdfasts and cities and kingdoms, felled heroes and armies by the score, riding their pale dead horses and leading hosts of the slain. all the swords of men could not stay their advance, and even maidens and suckling babes found no pity in them. they hunted the maids through frozen forests, and fed their dead servants on the flesh of human children. her voice had dropped very low, almost to a whisper, and bran found himself leaning forward to listen. now these were the days before the andals came, and long before the women fled across the narrow sea from the cities of the rhoyne, and the hundred kingdoms of those times were the kingdoms of the first men, who had taken these lands from the children of the forest. yet here and there in the fastness of the woods the children still lived in their wooden cities and hollow hills, and the faces in the trees kept watch. so as cold and death filled the earth, the last hero determined to seek out the children, in the hopes that their ancient magics could win back what the armies of men had lost. he set out into the dead lands with a sword, a horse, a dog, and a dozen companions. for years he searched, until he despaired of ever finding the children of the forest in their secret cities. one by one his friends died, and his horse, and finally even his dog, and his sword froze so hard the blade snapped when he tried to use it. and the others smelled the hot blood in him, and came silent on his trail, stalking him with packs of pale white spiders big as hounds- the door opened with a bang, and bran's heart leapt up into his mouth in sudden fear, but it was only maester luwin, with hodor looming in the stairway behind him. hodor! the stableboy announced, as was his custom, smiling hugely at them all. maester luwin was not smiling. we have visitors, he announced, and your presence is required, bran. i'm listening to a story now, bran complained. stories wait, my little lord, and when you come back to them, why, there they are, old nan said. visitors are not so patient, and ofttimes they bring stories of their own. who is it? bran asked maester luwin. tyrion lannister, and some men of the night's watch, with word from your brother jon. robb is meeting with them now. hodor, will you help bran down to the hall? hodor! hodor agreed happily. he ducked to get his great shaggy head under the door. hodor was nearly seven feet tall. it was hard to believe that he was the same blood as old nan. bran wondered if he would shrivel up as small as his great-grandmother when he was old. it did not seem likely, even if hodor lived to be a thousand. hodor lifted bran as easy as if he were a bale of hay, and cradled him against his massive chest. he always smelled faintly of horses, but it was not a bad smell. his arms were thick with muscle and matted with brown hair. hodor, he said again. theon greyjoy had once commented that hodor did not know much, but no one could doubt that he knew his name. old nan had cackled like a hen when bran told her that, and confessed that hodor's real name was walder. no one knew where hodor had come from, she said, but when he started saying it, they started calling him by it. it was the only word he had. they left old nan in the tower room with her needles and her memories. hodor hummed tunelessly as he carried bran down the steps and through the gallery, with maester luwin following behind, hurrying to keep up with the stableboy's long strides. robb was seated in father's high seat, wearing ringmail and boiled leather and the stern face of robb the lord. theon greyjoy and hallis mollen stood behind him. a dozen guardsmen lined the grey stone walls beneath tall narrow windows. in the center of the room the dwarf stood with his servants, and four strangers in the black of the night's watch. bran could sense the anger in the hall the moment that hodor carried him through the doors. any man of the night's watch is welcome here at winterfell for as long as he wishes to stay, robb was saying with the voice of robb the lord. his sword was across his knees, the steel bare for all the world to see. even bran knew what it meant to greet a guest with an unsheathed sword. any man of the night's watch, the dwarf repeated, but not me, do i take your meaning, boy? robb stood and pointed at the little man with his sword. i am the lord here while my mother and father are away, lannister. i am not your boy. if you are a lord, you might learn a lord's courtesy, the little man replied, ignoring the sword point in his face. your bastard brother has all your father's graces, it would seem. jon, bran gasped out from hodor's arms. the dwarf turned to look at him. so it is true, the boy lives. i could scarce believe it. you starks are hard to kill. you lannisters had best remember that, robb said, lowering his sword. hodor, bring my brother here. hodor, hodor said, and he trotted forward smiling and set bran in the high seat of the starks, where the lords of winterfell had sat since the days when they called themselves the kings in the north. the seat was cold stone, polished smooth by countless bottoms; the carved heads of direwolves snarled on the ends of its massive arms. bran clasped them as he sat, his useless legs dangling. the great seat made him feel half a baby. robb put a hand on his shoulder. you said you had business with bran. well, here he is, lannister. bran was uncomfortably aware of tyrion lannister's eyes. one was black and one was green, and both were looking at him, studying him, weighing him. i am told you were quite the climber, bran, the little man said at last. tell me, how is it you happened to fall that day? i never, bran insisted. he never fell, never never never. the child does not remember anything of the fall, or the climb that came before it, said maester luwin gently. curious, said tyrion lannister. my brother is not here to answer questions, lannister, robb said curtly. do your business and be on your way. i have a gift for you, the dwarf said to bran. do you like to ride, boy? maester luwin came forward. my lord, the child has lost the use of his legs. he cannot sit a horse. nonsense, said lannister. with the right horse and the right saddle, even a cripple can ride. the word was a knife through bran's heart. he felt tears come unbidden to his eyes. i'm not a cripple! then i am not a dwarf, the dwarf said with a twist of his mouth. my father will rejoice to hear it. greyjoy laughed. what sort of horse and saddle are you suggesting? maester luwin asked. a smart horse, lannister replied. the boy cannot use his legs to command the animal, so you must shape the horse to the rider, teach it to respond to the reins, to the voice. i would begin with an unbroken yearling, with no old training to be unlearned. he drew a rolled paper from his belt. give this to your saddler. he will provide the rest. maester luwin took the paper from the dwarfs hand, curious as a small grey squirrel. he unrolled it, studied it. i see. you draw nicely, my lord. yes, this ought to work. i should have thought of this myself. it came easier to me, maester. it is not terribly unlike my own saddles. will i truly be able to ride? bran asked. he wanted to believe them, but he was afraid. perhaps it was just another lie. the crow had promised him that he could fly. you will, the dwarf told him. and i swear to you, boy, on horseback you will be as tall as any of them. robb stark seemed puzzled. is this some trap, lannister? what's bran to you? why should you want to help him? your brother jon asked it of me. and i have a tender spot in my heart for cripples and bastards and broken things. tyrion lannister placed a hand over his heart and grinned. the door to the yard flew open. sunlight came streaming across the hall as rickon burst in, breathless. the direwolves were with him. the boy stopped by the door, wide-eyed, but the wolves came on. their eyes found lannister, or perhaps they caught his scent. summer began to growl first. grey wind picked it up. they padded toward the little man, one from the right and one from the left. the wolves do not like your smell, lannister, theon greyioy commented. perhaps it's time i took my leave, tyrion said. he took a step backward... and shaggydog came out of the shadows behind him, snarling. lannister recoiled, and summer lunged at him from the other side. he reeled away, unsteady on his feet, and grey wind snapped at his arm, teeth ripping at his sleeve and tearing loose a scrap of cloth. no! bran shouted from the high seat as lannister's men reached for their steel. summer, here. summer, to me! the direwo if heard the voice, glanced at bran, and again at lannister. he crept backward, away from the little man, and settled down below bran's dangling feet. robb had been holding his breath. he let it out with a sigh and called, grey wind. his direwo if moved to him, swift and silent. now there was only shaggydog, rumbling at the small man, his eyes burning like green fire. rickon, call him, bran shouted to his baby brother, and rickon remembered himself and screamed, home, shaggy, home now. the black wolf gave lannister one final snarl and bounded off to rickon, who hugged him tightly around the neck. tyrion lannister undid his scarf, mopped at his brow, and said in a flat voice, how interesting. are you well, my lord? asked one of his men, his sword in hand. he glanced nervously at the direwolves as he spoke. my sleeve is torn and my breeches are unaccountably damp, but nothing was harmed save my dignity. even robb looked shaken. the wolves... i don't know why they did that... no doubt they mistook me for dinner. lannister bowed stiffly to bran. i thank you for calling them off, young ser. i promise you, they would have found me quite indigestible. and now i will be leaving, truly. a moment, my lord, maester luwin said. he moved to robb and they huddled close together, whispering. bran tried to hear what they were saying, but their voices were too low. robb stark finally sheathed his sword. i... i may have been hasty with you, he said. you've done bran a kindness, and, well... robb composed himself with an effort. the hospitality of winterfell is yours if you wish it, lannister. spare me your false courtesies, boy. you do not love me and you do not want me here. i saw an inn outside your walls, in the winter town. i'll find a bed there, and both of us will sleep easier. for a few coppers i may even find a comely wench to warm the sheets for me. he spoke to one of the black brothers, an old man with a twisted back and a tangled beard. yoren, we go south at daybreak. you will find me on the road, no doubt. with that he made his exit, struggling across the hall on his short legs, past rickon and out the door. his men followed. the four of the night's watch remained. robb turned to them uncertainly. i have had rooms prepared, and you'll find no lack of hot water to wash off the dust of the road. i hope you will honor us at table tonight. he spoke the words so awkwardly that even bran took note; it was a speech he had learned, not words from the heart, but the black brothers thanked him all the same. summer followed them up the tower steps as hodor carried bran back to his bed. old nan was asleep in her chair. hodor said hodor, gathered up his great-grandmother, and carried her off, snoring softly, while bran lay thinking. robb had promised that he could feast with the night's watch in the great hall. summer, he called. the wolf bounded up on the bed. bran hugged him so hard he could feel the hot breath on his cheek. i can ride now, he whispered to his friend. we can go hunting in the woods soon, wait and see. after a time he slept. in his dream he was climbing again, pulling himself up an ancient windowless tower, his fingers forcing themselves between blackened stones, his feet scrabbling for purchase. higher and higher he climbed, through the clouds and into the night sky, and still the tower rose before him. when he paused to look down, his head swam dizzily and he felt his fingers slipping. bran cried out and clung for dear life. the earth was a thousand miles beneath him and he could not fly. he could not fly. he waited until his heart had stopped pounding, until he could breathe, and he began to climb again. there was no way to go but up. far above him, outlined against a vast pale moon, he thought he could see the shapes of gargoyles. his arms were sore and aching, but he dared not rest. he forced himself to climb faster. the gargoyles watched him ascend. their eyes glowed red as hot coals in a brazier. perhaps once they had been lions, but now they were twisted and grotesque. bran could hear them whispering to each other in soft stone voices terrible to hear. he must not listen, he told himself, he must not hear, so long as he did not hear them he was safe. but when the gargoyles pulled themselves loose from the stone and padded down the side of the tower to where bran clung, he knew he was not safe after all. i didn't hear, he wept as they came closer and closer, i didn't, i didn't. he woke gasping, lost in darkness, and saw a vast shadow looming over him. i didn't hear, he whispered, trembling in fear, but then the shadow said hodor, and lit the candle by the bedside, and bran sighed with relief. hodor washed the sweat from him with a warm, damp cloth and dressed him with deft and gentle hands. when it was time, he carried him down to the great hall, where a long trestle table had been set up near the fire. the lord's seat at the head of the table had been left empty, but robb sat to the right of it, with bran across from him. they ate suckling pig that night, and pigeon pie, and turnips soaking in butter, and afterward the cook had promised honeycombs. summer snatched table scraps from bran's hand, while grey wind and shaggydog fought over a bone in the corner. winterfell's dogs would not come near the hall now. bran had found that strange at first, but he was growing used to it. yoren was senior among the black brothers, so the steward had seated him between robb and maester luwin. the old man had a sour smell, as if he had not washed in a long time. he ripped at the meat with his teeth, cracked the ribs to suck out the marrow from the bones, and shrugged at the mention of jon snow. ser alliser's bane, he grunted, and two of his companions shared a laugh that bran did not understand. but when robb asked for news of their uncle benjen, the black brothers grew ominously quiet. what is it? bran asked. yoren wiped his fingers on his vest. there's hard news, m'lords, and a cruel way to pay you for your meat and mead, but the man as asks the question must bear the answer. stark's gone. one of the other men said, the old bear sent him out to look for waymar royce, and he's late returning, my lord. too long, yoren said. most like he's dead. my uncle is not dead, robb stark said loudly, anger in his tones. he rose from the bench and laid his hand on the hilt of his sword. do you hear me? my uncle is not dead! his voice rang against the stone walls, and bran was suddenly afraid. old sour-smelling yoren looked up at robb, unimpressed. whatever you say, m'lord, he said. he sucked at a piece of meat between his teeth. the youngest of the black brothers shifted uncomfortably in his seat. there's not a man on the wall knows the haunted forest better than benjen stark. he'll find his way back. well, said yoren, maybe he will and maybe he won't. good men have gone into those woods before, and never come out. all bran could think of was old nan's story of the others and the last hero, hounded through the white woods by dead men and spiders big as hounds. he was afraid for a moment, until he remembered how that story ended. the children will help him, he blurted, the children of the forest! theon greyjoy sniggered, and maester luwin said, bran, the children of the forest have been dead and gone for thousands of years. all that is left of them are the faces in the trees. down here, might be that's true, maester, yoren said, but up past the wall, who's to say? up there, a man can't always tell what's alive and what's dead. that night, after the plates had been cleared, robb carried bran up to bed himself. grey wind led the way, and summer came close behind. his brother was strong for his age, and bran was as light as a bundle of rags, but the stairs were steep and dark, and robb was breathing hard by the time they reached the top. he put bran into bed, covered him with blankets, and blew out the candle. for a time robb sat beside him in the dark. bran wanted to talk to him, but he did not know what to say. we'll find a horse for you, i promise, robb whispered at last. are they ever coming back? bran asked him. yes, robb said with such hope in his voice that bran knew he was hearing his brother and not just robb the lord. mother will be home soon. maybe we can ride out to meet her when she comes. wouldn't that surprise her, to see you ahorse? even in the dark room, bran could feel his brother's smile. and afterward, we'll ride north to see the wall. we won't even tell jon we're coming, we'll just be there one day, you and me. it will be an adventure. an adventure, bran repeated wistfully. he heard his brother sob. the room was so dark he could not see the tears on robb's face, so he reached out and found his hand. their fingers twined together. a light snow was falling. bran could feel the flakes on his face, melting as they touched his skin like the gentlest of rains. he sat straight atop his horse, watching as the iron portcullis was winched upward. try as he might to keep calm, his heart was fluttering in his chest. are you ready? robb asked. bran nodded, trying not to let his fear show. he had not been outside winterfell since his fall, but he was determined to ride out as proud as any knight. let's ride, then. robb put his heels into his big grey-and-white gelding, and the horse walked under the portcullis. go, bran whispered to his own horse. he touched her neck lightly, and the small chestnut filly started forward. bran had named her dancer. she was two years old, and joseth said she was smarter than any horse had a right to be. they had trained her special, to respond to rein and voice and touch. up to now, bran had only ridden her around the yard. at first joseth or hodor would lead her, while bran sat strapped to her back in the oversize saddle the imp had drawn up for him, but for the past fortnight he had been riding her on his own, trotting her round and round, and growing bolder with every circuit. they passed beneath the gatehouse, over the drawbridge, through the outer walls. summer and grey wind came loping beside them, sniffing at the wind. close behind came theon greyjoy, with his longbow and a quiver of broadheads; he had a mind to take a deer, he had told them. he was followed by four guardsmen in mailed shirts and coifs, and joseth, a stick-thin stableman whom robb had named master of horse while hullen was away. maester luwin brought up the rear, riding on a donkey. bran would have liked it better if he and robb had gone off alone, just the two of them, but hal mo lien would not hear of it, and maester luwin backed him. if bran fell off his horse or injured himself, the maester was determined to be with him. beyond the castle lay the market square, its wooden stalls deserted now. they rode down the muddy streets of the village, past rows of small neat houses of log and undressed stone. less than one in five were occupied, thin tendrils of woodsmoke curling up from their chimneys. the rest would fill up one by one as it grew colder. when the snow fell and the ice winds howled down out of the north, old nan said, farmers left their frozen fields and distant holdfasts, loaded up their wagons, and then the winter town came alive. bran had never seen it happen, but maester luwin said the day was looming closer. the end of the long summer was near at hand. winter is coming. a few villagers eyed the direwolves anxiously as the riders went past, and one man dropped the wood he was carrying as he shrank away in fear, but most of the townfolk had grown used to the sight. they bent the knee when they saw the boys, and robb greeted each of them with a lordly nod. with his legs unable to grip, the swaying motion of the horse made bran feel unsteady at first, but the huge saddle with its thick horn and high back cradled him comfortingly, and the straps around his chest and thighs would not allow him to fall. after a time the rhythm began to feel almost natural. his anxiety faded, and a tremulous smile crept across his face. two serving wenches stood beneath the sign of the smoking log, the local alehouse. when theon greyjoy called out to them, the younger girl turned red and covered her face. theon spurred his mount to move up beside robb. sweet kyra, he said with a laugh. she squirms like a weasel in bed, but say a word to her on the street, and she blushes pink as a maid. did i ever tell you about the night that she and bessa- not where my brother can hear, theon, robb warned him with a glance at bran. bran looked away and pretended not to have heard, but he could feel greyjoy's eyes on him. no doubt he was smiling. he smiled a lot, as if the world were a secret joke that only he was clever enough to understand. robb seemed to admire theon and enjoy his company, but bran had never warmed to his father's ward. robb rode closer. you are doing well, bran. i want to go faster, bran replied. robb smiled. as you will. he sent his gelding into a trot. the wolves raced after him. bran snapped the reins sharply, and dancer picked up her pace. he heard a shout from theon greyjoy, and the hoofbeats of the other horses behind him. bran's cloak billowed out, rippling in the wind, and the snow seemed to rush at his face. robb was well ahead, glancing back over his shoulder from time to time to make sure bran and the others were following. he snapped the reins again. smooth as silk, dancer slid into a gallop. the distance closed. by the time he caught robb on the edge of the wolfswood, two miles beyond the winter town, they had left the others well behind. i can tide! bran shouted, grinning. it felt almost as good as flying. i'd race you, but i fear you'd win. robb's tone was light and joking, yet bran could tell that something was troubling his brother underneath the smile. i don't want to race. bran looked around for the direwolves. both had vanished into the wood. did you hear summer howling last night? grey wind was restless too, robb said. his auburn hair had grown shaggy and unkempt, and a reddish stubble covered his jaw, making him look older than his fifteen years. sometimes i think they know things... sense things... robb sighed. i never know how much to tell you, bran. i wish you were older. i'm eight now! bran said. eight isn't so much younger than fifteen, and i'm the heir to winterfell, after you. so you are. robb sounded sad, and even a little scared. bran, i need to tell you something. there was a bird last night. from king's landing. maester luwin woke me. bran felt a sudden dread. dark wings, dark words, old nan always said, and of late the messenger ravens had been proving the truth of the proverb. when robb wrote to the lord commander of the night's watch, the bird that came back brought word that uncle benjen was still missing. then a message had arrived from the eyrie, from mother, but that had not been good news either. she did not say when she meant to return, only that she had taken the imp as prisoner. bran had sort of liked the little man, yet the name lannister sent cold fingers creeping up his spine. there was something about the lannisters, something he ought to remember, but when he tried to think what, he felt dizzy and his stomach clenched hard as a stone. robb spent most of that day locked behind closed doors with maester luwin, theon greyjoy, and hallis mollen. afterward, riders were sent out on fast horses, carrying robb's commands throughout the north. bran heard talk of moat cailin, the ancient stronghold the first men had built at the top of the neck. no one ever told him what was happening, yet he knew it was not good. and now another raven, another message. bran clung to hope. was the bird from mother? is she coming home? the message was from alyn in king's landing. jory cassel is dead. and wyl and heward as well. murdered by the kingslayer. robb lifted his face to the snow, and the flakes melted on his cheeks. may the gods give them rest. bran did not know what to say. he felt as if he'd been punched. jory had been captain of the household guard at winterfell since before bran was born. they killed jory? he remembered all the times jory had chased him over the roofs. he could picture him striding across the yard in mail and plate, or sitting at his accustomed place on the bench in the great hall, joking as he ate. why would anyone kill jory? robb shook his head numbly, the pain plain in his eyes. i don't know, and... bran, that's not the worst of it. father was caught beneath a falling horse in the fight. alyn says his leg was shattered, and... maester pycelle has given him the milk of the poppy, but they aren't sure when... when he... the sound of hoofbeats made him glance down the road, to where theon and the others were coming up. when he will wake, robb finished. he laid his hand on the pommel of his sword then, and went on in the solemn voice of robb the lord. bran, i promise you, whatever might happen, i will not let this be forgotten. something in his tone made bran even more fearful. what will you do? he asked as theon greyjoy reined in beside them. theon thinks i should call the banners, robb said. blood for blood. for once greyjoy did not smile. his lean, dark face had a hungry look to it, and black hair fell down across his eyes. only the lord can call the banners, bran said as the snow drifted down around them. if your father dies, theon said, robb will be lord of winterfell. he won't die! bran screamed at him. robb took his hand. he won't die, not father, he said calmly. still... the honor of the north is in my hands now. when our lord father took his leave of us, he told me to be strong for you and for rickon. i'm almost a man grown, bran. bran shivered. i wish mother was back, he said miserably. he looked around for maester luwin; his donkey was visible in the far distance, trotting over a rise. does maester luwin say to call the banners too? the maester is timid as an old woman, said theon. father always listened to his counsel, bran reminded his brother. mother too. i listen to him, robb insisted. i listen to everyone. the joy bran had felt at the ride was gone, melted away like the snowflakes on his face. not so long ago, the thought of robb calling the banners and riding off to war would have filled him with excitement, but now he felt only dread. can we go back now? he asked. i'm cold. robb glanced around. we need to find the wolves. can you stand to go a bit longer? i can go as long as you can. maester luwin had warned him to keep the ride short, for fear of saddle sores, but bran would not admit to weakness in front of his brother. he was sick of the way everyone was always fussing over him and asking how he was. let's hunt down the hunters, then, robb said. side by side, they urged their mounts off the kingsroad and struck out into the wolfswood. theon dropped back and followed well behind them, talking and joking with the guardsmen. it was nice under the trees. bran kept dancer to a walk, holding the reins lightly and looking all around him as they went. he knew this wood, but he had been so long confined to winterfell that he felt as though he were seeing it for the first time. the smells filled his nostrils; the sharp fresh tang of pine needles, the earthy odor of wet rotting leaves, the hints of animal musk and distant cooking fires. he caught a glimpse of a black squirrel moving through the snow-covered branches of an oak, and paused to study the silvery web of an empress spider. theon and the others fell farther and farther behind, until bran could no longer hear their voices. from ahead came the faint sound of rushing waters. it grew louder until they reached the stream. tears stung his eyes. bran? robb asked. what's wrong? bran shook his head. i was just remembering, he said. jory brought us here once, to fish for trout. you and me and jon. do you remember? i remember, robb said, his voice quiet and sad. i didn't catch anything, bran said, but jon gave me his fish on the way back to winterfell. will we ever see jon again? we saw uncle benjen when the king came to visit, robb pointed out. jon will visit too, you'll see. the stream was running high and fast. robb dismounted and led his gelding across the ford. in the deepest part of the crossing, the water came up to midthigh. he tied his horse to a tree on the far side, and waded back across for bran and dancer. the current foamed around rock and root, and bran could feel the spray on his face as robb led him over. it made him smile. for a moment he felt strong again, and whole. he looked up at the trees and dreamed of climbing them, right up to the very top, with the whole forest spread out beneath him. they were on the far side when they heard the howl, a long rising wail that moved through the trees like a cold wind. bran raised his head to listen. summer, he said. no sooner had he spoken than a second voice joined the first. they've made a kill, robb said as he remounted. i'd best go and bring them back. wait here, theon and the others should be along shortly. i want to go with you, bran said. i'll find them faster by myself. robb spurred his gelding and vanished into the trees. once he was gone, the woods seemed to close in around bran. the snow was falling more heavily now. where it touched the ground it melted, but all about him rock and root and branch wore a thin blanket of white. as he waited, he was conscious of how uncomfortable he felt. he could not feel his legs, hanging useless in the stirrups, but the strap around his chest was tight and chafing, and the melting snow had soaked through his gloves to chill his hands. he wondered what was keeping theon and maester luwin and joseth and the rest. when he heard the rustle of leaves, bran used the reins to make dancer turn, expecting to see his friends, but the ragged men who stepped out onto the bank of the stream were strangers. good day to you, he said nervously. one look, and bran knew they were neither foresters nor farmers. he was suddenly conscious of how richly he was dressed. his surcoat was new, dark grey wool with silver buttons, and a heavy silver pin fastened his fur-trimmed cloak at the shoulders. his boots and gloves were lined with fur as well. all alone, are you? said the biggest of them, a bald man with a raw windburnt face. lost in the wolfswood, poor lad. i'm not lost. bran did not like the way the strangers were looking at him. he counted four, but when he turned his head, he saw two others behind him. my brother rode off just a moment ago, and my guard will be here shortly. your guard, is it? a second man said. grey stubble covered his gaunt face. and what would they be guarding, my little lord? is that a silver pin i see there on your cloak? pretty, said a woman's voice. she scarcely looked like a woman; tall and lean, with the same hard face as the others, her hair hidden beneath a bowl-shaped halfhelm. the spear she held was eight feet of black oak, tipped in rusted steel. let's have a look, said the big bald man. bran watched him anxiously. the man's clothes were filthy, fallen almost to pieces, patched here with brown and here with blue and there with a dark green, and faded everywhere to grey, but once that cloak might have been black. the grey stubbly man wore black rags too, he saw with a sudden start. suddenly bran remembered the oathbreaker his father had beheaded, the day they had found the wolf pups; that man had worn black as well, and father said he had been a deserter from the night's watch. no man is more dangerous, he remembered lord eddard saying. the deserter knows his life is forfeit if he is taken, so he will notflinch from any crime, no matter how vile or cruel. the pin, lad, the big man said. he held out his hand. we'll take the horse too, said another of them, a woman shorter than robb, with a broad fiat face and lank yellow hair. get down, and be quick about it. a knife slid from her sleeve into her hand, its edge jagged as a saw. no, bran blurted. i can't. the big man grabbed his reins before bran could think to wheel dancer around and gallop off. you can, lordling... and will, if you know what's good for you. stiv, look how he's strapped on. the tall woman pointed with her spear. might be it's the truth he's telling. straps, is it? stiv said. he drew a dagger from a sheath at his belt. there's ways to deal with straps. you some kind of cripple? asked the short woman. bran flared. i'm brandon stark of winterfell, and you better let go of my horse, or i'll see you all dead. the gaunt man with the grey stubbled face laughed. the boy's a stark, true enough. only a stark would be fool enough to threaten where smarter men would beg. cut his little cock off and stuff it in his mouth, suggested the short woman. that should shut him up. you're as stupid as you are ugly, hali, said the tall woman. the boy's worth nothing dead, but alive... gods be damned, think what mance would give to have benjen stark's own blood to hostage! mance be damned, the big man cursed. you want to go back there, osha? more fool you. think the white walkers will care if you have a hostage? he turned back to bran and slashed at the strap around his thigh. the leather parted with a sigh. the stroke had been quick and careless, biting deep. looking down, bran glimpsed pale flesh where the wool of his leggings had parted. then the blood began to flow. he watched the red stain spread, feeling light-headed, curiously apart; there had been no pain, not even a hint of feeling. the big man grunted in surprise. put down your steel now, and i promise you shall have a quick and painless death, robb called out. bran looked up in desperate hope, and there he was. the strength of the words were undercut by the way his voice cracked with strain. he was mounted, the bloody carcass of an elk slung across the back of his horse, his sword in a gloved hand. the brother, said the man with the grey stubbly face. he's a fierce one, he is, mocked the short woman. hali, they called her. you mean to fight us, boy? don't be a fool, lad. you're one against six. the tall woman, osha, leveled her spear. off the horse, and throw down the sword. we'll thank you kindly for the mount and for the venison, and you and your brother can be on your way. robb whistled. they heard the faint sound of soft feet on wet leaves. the undergrowth parted, low-hanging branches giving up their accumulation of snow, and grey wind and summer emerged from the green. summer sniffed the air and growled. wolves, gasped hali. direwolves, bran said. still half-grown, they were as large as any wolf he had ever seen, but the differences were easy to spot, if you knew what to look for. maester luwin and farlen the kennelmaster had taught him. a direwolf had a bigger head and longer legs in proportion to its body, and its snout and jaw were markedly leaner and more pronounced. there was something gaunt and terrible about them as they stood there amid the gently falling snow. fresh blood spotted grey wind's muzzle. dogs, the big bald man said contemptuously. yet i'm told there's nothing like a wolfskin cloak to warm a man by night. he made a sharp gesture. take them. robb shouted, winterfell! and kicked his horse. the gelding plunged down the bank as the ragged men closed. a man with an axe rushed in, shouting and heedless. robb's sword caught him full in the face with a sickening crunch and a spray of bright blood. the man with the gaunt stubbly face made a grab for the reins, and for half a second he had them... and then grey wind was on him, bearing him down. he fell back into the stream with a splash and a shout, flailing wildly with his knife as his head went under. the direwo if plunged in after him, and the white water turned red where they had vanished. robb and osha matched blows in midstream. her long spear was a steel-headed serpent, flashing out at his chest, once, twice, three times, but robb parried every thrust with his longsword, turning the point aside. on the fourth or fifth thrust, the tall woman overextended herself and lost her balance, just for a second. robb charged, riding her down. a few feet away, summer darted in and snapped at hali. the knife bit at his flank. summer slid away, snarling, and came rushing in again. this time his jaws closed around her calf. holding the knife with both hands, the small woman stabbed down, but the direwo if seemed to sense the blade coming. he pulled free for an instant, his mouth full of leather and cloth and bloody flesh. when hali stumbled and fell, he came at her again, slamming her backward, teeth tearing at her belly. the sixth man ran from the carnage... but not far. as he went scrambling up the far side of the bank, grey wind emerged from the stream, dripping wet. he shook the water off and bounded after the running man, hamstringing him with a single snap of his teeth, and going for the throat as the screaming man slid back down toward the water. and then there was no one left but the big man, stiv. he slashed at bran's chest strap, grabbed his arm, and yanked. suddenly bran was falling. he sprawled on the ground, his legs tangled under him, one foot in the stream. he could not feel the cold of the water, but he felt the steel when stiv pressed his dagger to his throat. back away, the man warned, or i'll open the boy's windpipe, i swear it. robb reined his horse in, breathing hard. the fury went out of his eyes, and his sword arm dropped. in that moment bran saw everything. summer was savaging hali, pulling glistening blue snakes from her belly. her eyes were wide and staring. bran could not tell whether she was alive or dead. the grey stubbly man and the one with the axe lay unmoving, but osha was on her knees, crawling toward her fallen spear. grey wind padded toward her, dripping wet. call him off! the big man shouted. call them both off, or the cripple boy dies now! grey wind, summer, to me, robb said. the direwolves stopped, turned their heads. grey wind loped back to robb. summer stayed where he was, his eyes on bran and the man beside him. he growled. his muzzle was wet and red, but his eyes burned. osha used the butt end of her spear to lever herself back to her feet. blood leaked from a wound on the upper arm where robb had cut her. bran could see sweat trickling down the big man's face. stiv was as scared as he was, he realized. starks, the man muttered, bloody starks. he raised his voice. osha, kill the wolves and get his sword. kill them yourself, she replied. i'll not be getting near those monsters. for a moment stiv was at a loss. his hand trembled; bran felt a trickle of blood where the knife pressed against his neck. the stench of the man filled his nose; he smelled of fear. you, he called out to robb. you have a name? i am robb stark, the heir to winterfell. this is your brother? yes. you want him alive, you do what i say. off the horse. robb hesitated a moment. then, slowly and deliberately, he dismounted and stood with his sword in hand. now kill the wolves. robb did not move. you do it. the wolves or the boy. no! bran screamed. if robb did as they asked, stiv would kill them both anyway, once the direwolves were dead. the bald man took hold of his hair with his free hand and twisted it cruelly, till bran sobbed in pain. you shut your mouth, cripple, you hear me? he twisted harder. you hear me? a low thrum came from the woods behind them. stiv gave a choked gasp as a half foot of razor-tipped broadhead suddenly exploded out of his chest. the arrow was bright red, as if it had been painted in blood. the dagger fell away from bran's throat. the big man swayed and collapsed, facedown in the stream. the arrow broke beneath him. bran watched his life go swirling off in the water. osha glanced around as father's guardsmen appeared from beneath the trees, steel in hand. she threw down her spear. mercy, m'lord, she called to robb. the guardsmen had a strange, pale look to their faces as they took in the scene of slaughter. they eyed the wolves uncertainly, and when summer returned to hali's corpse to feed, joseth dropped his knife and scrambled for the bush, heaving. even maester luwin seemed shocked as he stepped from behind a tree, but only for an instant. then he shook his head and waded across the stream to bran's side. are you hurt? he cut my leg, bran said, but i couldn't feel it. as the maester knelt to examine the wound, bran turned his head. theon greyjoy stood beside a sentinel tree, his bow in hand. he was smiling. ever smiling. a half-dozen arrows were thrust into the soft ground at his feet, but it had taken only one. a dead enemy is a thing of beauty, he announced. jon always said you were an ass, greyjoy, robb said loudly. i ought to chain you up in the yard and let bran take a few practice shots at you.  you should be thanking me for saving your brother's life. what if you had missed the shot? robb said. what if you'd only wounded him? what if you had made his hand jump, or hit bran instead? for all you knew, the man might have been wearing a breastplate, all you could see was the back of his cloak. what would have happened to my brother then? did you ever think of that, greyjoy? theon's smile was gone. he gave a sullen shrug and began to pull his arrows from the ground, one by one. robb glared at his guardsmen. where were you? he demanded of them. i was sure you were close behind us. the men traded unhappy glances. we were following, m'lord, said quent, the youngest of them, his beard a soft brown fuzz. only first we waited for maester luwin and his ass, begging your pardons, and then, well, as it were he glanced over at theon and quickly looked away, abashed. i spied a turkey, theon said, annoyed by the question. how was i to know that you'd leave the boy alone? robb turned his head to look at theon once more. bran had never seen him so angry, yet he said nothing. finally he knelt beside maester luwin. how badly is my brother wounded? no more than a scratch, the maester said. he wet a cloth in the stream to clean the cut. two of them wear the black, he told robb as he worked. robb glanced over at where stiv lay sprawled in the stream, his ragged black cloak moving fitfully as the rushing waters tugged at it. deserters from the night's watch, he said grimly. they must have been fools, to come so close to winterfell. folly and desperation are ofttimes hard to tell apart, said maester luwin. shall we bury them, m'lord? asked quent. they would not have buried us, robb said. hack off their heads, we'll send them back to the wall. leave the rest for the carrion crows. and this one? quent jerked a thumb toward osha. robb walked over to her. she was a head taller than he was, but she dropped to her knees at his approach. give me my life, m'lord of stark, and i am yours. mine? what would i do with an oathbreaker? i broke no oaths. stiv and wallen flew down off the wall, not me. the black crows got no place for women. theon greyjoy sauntered closer. give her to the wolves, he urged robb. the woman's eyes went to what was left of hali, and just as quickly away. she shuddered. even the guardsmen looked queasy. she's a woman, robb said. a wildling, bran told him. she said they should keep me alive so they could take me to mance rayder. do you have a name? robb asked her. osha, as it please the lord, she muttered sourly. maester luwin stood. we might do well to question her. bran could see the relief on his brother's face. as you say, maester. wayn, bind her hands. she'll come back to winterfell with us... and live or die by the truths she gives us. the karstarks came in on a cold windy morning, bringing three hundred horsemen and near two thousand foot from their castle at karhold. the steel points of their pikes winked in the pale sunlight as the column approached. a man went before them, pounding out a slow, deep- throated marching rhythm on a drum that was bigger than he was, boom, boom, boom. bran watched them come from a guard turret atop the outer wall, peering through maester luwin's bronze far-eye while perched on hodor's shoulders. lord rickard himself led them, his sons harrion and eddard and torrhen riding beside him beneath night-black banners emblazoned with the white sunburst of their house. old nan said they had stark blood in them, going back hundreds of years, but they did not look like starks to bran. they were big men, and fierce, faces covered with thick beards, hair worn loose past the shoulders. their cloaks were made of skins, the pelts of bear and sea] and wolf. they were the last, he knew. the other lords were already here, with their hosts. bran yearned to ride out among them, to see the winter houses full to bursting, the jostling crowds in the market square every morning, the streets rutted and torn by wheel and hoof. but robb had forbidden him to leave the castle. we have no men to spare to guard you, his brother had explained. i'll take summer, bran argued. don't act the boy with me, bran, robb said. you know better than that. only two days ago one of lord bolton's men knifed one of lord cerwyn's at the smoking log. our lady mother would skin me for a pelt if i let you put yourself at risk. he was using the voice of robb the lord when he said it; bran knew that meant there was no appeal. it was because of what had happened in the wolfswood, he knew. the memory still gave him bad dreams. he had been as helpless as a baby, no more able to defend himself than rickon would have been. less, even... rickon would have kicked them, at the least. it shamed him. he was only a few years younger than robb; if his brother was almost a man grown, so was he. he should have been able to protect himself. a year ago, before, he would have visited the town even if it meant climbing over the walls by himself. in those days he could run down stairs, get on and off his pony by himself, and wield a wooden sword good enough to knock prince tommen in the dirt. now he could only watch, peering out through maester luwin's lens tube. the maester had taught him all the banners: the mailed fist of the glovers, silver on scarlet; lady mormont's black bear; the hideous flayed man that went before roose bolton of the dreadfort; a bull moose for the hornwoods; a battle-axe for the cerwyns; three sentinel trees for the tallharts; and the fearsome sigil of house umber, a roaring giant in shattered chains. and soon enough he learned the faces too, when the lords and their sons and knights retainer came to winterfell to feast. even the great hall was not large enough to seat all of them at once, so robb hosted each of the principal bannermen in turn. bran was always given the place of honor at his brother's right hand. some of the lords bannermen gave him queer hard stares as he sat there, as if they wondered by what right a green boy should be placed above them, and him a cripple too. how many is it now? bran asked maester luwin as lord karstark and his sons rode through the gates in the outer wall. twelve thousand men, or near enough as makes no matter. how many knights? few enough, the maester said with a touch of impatience. to be a knight, you must stand your vigil in a sept, and be anointed with the seven oils to consecrate your vows. in the north, only a few of the great houses worship the seven. the rest honor the old gods, and name no knights... but those lords and their sons and sworn swords are no less fierce or loyal or honorable. a man's worth is not marked by a ser before his name. as i have told you a hundred times before. still, said bran, how many knights? maester luwin sighed. three hundred, perhaps four... among three thousand armored lances who are not knights. lord karstark is the last, bran said thoughtfully. robb will feast him tonight. no doubt he will. how long before... before they go? he must march soon, or not at all, maester luwin said. the winter town is full to bursting, and this army of his will eat the countryside clean if it camps here much longer. others are waiting to join him all along the kingsroad, barrow knights and crannogmen and the lords manderly and flint. the fighting has begun in the riverlands, and your brother has many leagues to go. i know. bran felt as miserable as he sounded. he handed the bronze tube back to the maester, and noticed how thin luwin' s hair had grown on top. he could see the pink of scalp showing through. it felt queer to look down on him this way, when he'd spent his whole life looking up at him, but when you sat on hodor's back you looked down on everyone. i don't want to watch anymore. hodor, take me back to the keep. hodor, said hodor. maester luwin tucked the tube up his sleeve. bran, your lord brother will not have time to see you now. he must greet lord karstark and his sons and make them welcome. i won't trouble robb. i want to visit the godswood. he put his hand on hodor's shoulder. hodor. a series of chisel-cut handholds made a ladder in the granite of the tower's inner wall. hodor hummed tunelessly as he went down hand under hand, bran bouncing against his back in the wicker seat that maester luwin had fashioned for him. luwin had gotten the idea from the baskets the women used to carry firewood on their backs; after that it had been a simple matter of cutting legholes and attaching some new straps to spread bran's weight more evenly. it was not as good as riding dancer, but there were places dancer could not go, and this did not shame bran the way it did when hodor carried him in his arms like a baby. hodor seemed to like it too, though with hodor it was hard to tell. the only tricky part was doors. sometimes hodor forgot that he had bran on his back, and that could be painful when he went through a door. for near a fortnight there had been so many comings and goings that robb ordered both portcullises kept up and the drawbridge down between them, even in the dead of night. a long column of armored lancers was crossing the moat between the walls when bran emerged from the tower; karstark men, following their lords into the castle. they wore black iron halfhelms and black woolen cloaks patterned with the white sunburst. hodor trotted along beside them, smiling to himself, his boots thudding against the wood of the drawbridge. the riders gave them queer looks as they went by, and once bran heard someone guffaw. he refused to let it trouble him. men will look at you, maester luwin had warned him the first time they had strapped the wicker basket around hodor's chest. they will look, and they will talk, and some will mock you. let them mock, bran thought. no one mocked him in his bedchamber, but he would not live his life in bed. as they passed beneath the gatehouse portcullis, bran put two fingers into his mouth and whistled. summer came loping across the yard. suddenly the karstark lancers were fighting for control, as their horses rolled their eyes and whickered in dismay. one stallion reared, screaming, his rider cursing and hanging on desperately. the scent of the direwolves sent horses into a frenzy of fear if they were not accustomed to it, but they'd quiet soon enough once summer was gone. the godswood, bran reminded hodor. even winterfell itself was crowded. the yard rang to the sound of sword and axe, the rumble of wagons, and the barking of dogs. the armory doors were open, and bran glimpsed mikken at his forge, his hammer ringing as sweat dripped off his bare chest. bran had never seen as many strangers in all his years, not even when king robert had come to visit father. he tried not to flinch as hodor ducked through a low door. they walked down a long dim hallway, summer padding easily beside them. the wolf glanced up from time to time, eyes smoldering like liquid gold. bran would have liked to touch him, but he was riding too high for his hand to reach. the godswood was an island of peace in the sea of chaos that winterfell had become. hodor made his way through the dense stands of oak and ironwood and sentinels, to the still pool beside the heart tree. he stopped under the gnarled limbs of the weirwood, humming. bran reached up over his head and pulled himself out of his seat, drawing the dead weight of his legs up through the holes in the wicker basket. he hung for a moment, dangling, the dark red leaves brushing against his face, until hodor lifted him and lowered him to the smooth stone beside the water. i want to be by myself for a while, he said. you go soak. go to the pools. hodor. hodor stomped through the trees and vanished. across the godswood, beneath the windows of the guest house, an underground hot spring fed three small ponds. steam rose from the water day and night, and the wall that loomed above was thick with moss. hodor hated cold water, and would fight like a treed wildcat when threatened with soap, but he would happily immerse himself in the hottest pool and sit for hours, giving a loud burp to echo the spring whenever a bubble rose from the murky green depths to break upon the surface. summer lapped at the water and settled down at bran's side. he rubbed the wolf under the jaw, and for a moment boy and beast both felt at peace. bran had always liked the godswood, even before, but of late he found himself drawn to it more and more. even the heart tree no longer scared him the way it used to. the deep red eyes carved into the pale trunk still watched him, yet somehow he took comfort from that now. the gods were looking over him, he told himself; the old gods, gods of the starks and the first men and the children of the forest, his father's gods. he felt safe in their sight, and the deep silence of the trees helped him think. bran had been thinking a lot since his fall; thinking, and dreaming, and talking with the gods. please make it so robb won't go away, he prayed softly. he moved his hand through the cold water, sending ripples across the pool. please make him stay. or if he has to go, bring him home safe, with mother and father and the girls. and make it... make it so rickon understands. his baby brother had been wild as a winter storm since he learned robb was riding off to war, weeping and angry by turns. he'd refused to eat, cried and screamed for most of a night, even punched old nan when she tried to sing him to sleep, and the next day he'd vanished. robb had set half the castle searching for him, and when at last they'd found him down in the crypts, rickon had slashed at them with a rusted iron sword he'd snatched from a dead king's hand, and shaggydog had come slavering out of the darkness like a green-eyed demon. the wolf was near as wild as rickon; he'd bitten gage on the arm and torn a chunk of flesh from mikken's thigh. it had taken robb himself and grey wind to bring him to bay. farlen had the black wolf chained up in the kennels now, and rickon cried all the more for being without him. maester luwin counseled robb to remain at winterfell, and bran pleaded with him too, for his own sake as much as rickon's, but his brother only shook his head stubbornly and said, i don't want to go. i have to. it was only half a lie. someone had to go, to hold the neck and help the tullys against the lannisters, bran could understand that, but it did not have to be robb. his brother might have given the command to hal mollen or theon greyjoy, or to one of his lords bannermen. maester luwin urged him to do just that, but robb would not hear of it. my lord father would never have sent men off to die while he huddled like a craven behind the walls of winterfell, he said, all robb the lord. robb seemed half a stranger to bran now, transformed, a lord in truth, though he had not yet seen his sixteenth name day. even their father's bannermen seemed to sense it. many tried to test him, each in his own way. roose bolton and robert glover both demanded the honor of battle command, the first brusquely, the second with a smile and a jest. stout, grey-haired maege mormont, dressed in mail like a man, told robb bluntly that he was young enough to be her grandson, and had no business giving her commands... but as it happened, she had a granddaughter she would be willing to have him marry. softspoken lord cerwyn had actually brought his daughter with him, a plump, homely maid of thirty years who sat at her father's left hand and never lifted her eyes from her plate. jovial lord hornwood had no daughters, but he did bring gifts, a horse one day, a haunch of venison the next, a silver-chased hunting horn the day after, and he asked nothing in return... nothing but a certain holdfast taken from his grandfather, and hunting rights north of a certain ridge, and leave to dam the white knife, if it please the lord. robb answered each of them with cool courtesy, much as father might have, and somehow he bent them to his will. and when lord umber, who was called the greatjon by his men and stood as tall as hodor and twice as wide, threatened to take his forces home if he was placed behind the hornwoods or the cerwyns in the order of march, robb told him he was welcome to do so. and when we are done with the lannisters, he promised, scratching grey wind behind the ear, we will march back north, root you out of your keep, and hang you for an oathbreaker. cursing, the greatjon flung a flagon of ale into the fire and bellowed that robb was so green he must piss grass. when hallis mollen moved to restrain him, he knocked him to the floor, kicked over a table, and unsheathed the biggest, ugliest greatsword that bran had ever seen. all along the benches, his sons and brothers and sworn swords leapt to their feet, grabbing for their steel. yet robb only said a quiet word, and in a snarl and the blink of an eye lord umber was on his back, his sword spinning on the floor three feet away and his hand dripping blood where grey wind had bitten off two fingers. my lord father taught me that it was death to bare steel against your liege lord, robb said, but doubtless you only meant to cut my meat. bran's bowels went to water as the greatjon struggled to rise, sucking at the red stumps of fingers... but then, astonishingly, the huge man laughed. your meat, he roared, is bloody tough.  and somehow after that the greatjon became robb's right hand, his staunchest champion, loudly telling all and sundry that the boy lord was a stark after all, and they'd damn well better bend their knees if they didn't fancy having them chewed off. yet that very night, his brother came to bran's bedchamber pale and shaken, after the fires had burned low in the great hall. i thought he was going to kill me, robb confessed. did you see the way he threw down hal, like he was no bigger than rickon? gods, i was so scared. and the greatjon's not the worst of them, only the loudest. lord roose never says a word, he only looks at me, and all i can think of is that room they have in the dreadfort, where the boltons hang the skins of their enemies. that's just one of old nan's stories, bran said. a note of doubt crept into his voice. isn't it? i don't know. he gave a weary shake of his head. lord cerwyn means to take his daughter south with us. to cook for him, he says. theon is certain i'll find the girl in my bedroll one night. i wish... i wish father was here... that was the one thing they could agree on, bran and rickon and robb the lord; they all wished father was here. but lord eddard was a thousand leagues away, a captive in some dungeon, a hunted fugitive running for his life, or even dead. no one seemed to know for certain; every traveler told a different tale, each more terrifying than the last. the heads of father's guardsmen were rotting on the walls of the red keep, impaled on spikes. king robert was dead at father's hands. the baratheons had laid siege to king's landing. lord eddard had fled south with the king's wicked brother renly. arya and sansa had been murdered by the hound. mother had killed tyrion the imp and hung his body from the walls of riverrun. lord tywin lannister was marching on the eyrie, burning and slaughtering as he went. one winesodden taleteller even claimed that rhaegar targaryen had returned from the dead and was marshaling a vast host of ancient heroes on dragonstone to reclaim his father's throne. when the raven came, bearing a letter marked with father's own seal and written in sansa's hand, the cruel truth seemed no less incredible. bran would never forget the look on robb's face as he stared at their sister's words. she says father conspired at treason with the king's brothers, he read. king robert is dead, and mother and i are summoned to the red keep to swear fealty to joffrey. she says we must be loyal, and when she marries joffrey she will plead with him to spare our lord father's life. his fingers closed into a fist, crushing sansa's letter between them. and she says nothing of arya, nothing, not so much as a word. damn her! what's wrong with the girl? bran felt all cold inside. she lost her wolf, he said, weakly, remembering the day when four of his father's guardsmen had returned from the south with lady's bones. summer and grey wind and shaggydog had begun to howl before they crossed the drawbridge, in voices drawn and desolate. beneath the shadow of the first keep was an ancient lichyard, its headstones spotted with pale lichen, where the old kings of winter had laid their faithful servants. it was there they buried lady, while her brothers stalked between the graves like restless shadows. she had gone south, and only her bones had returned. their grandfather, old lord rickard, had gone as well, with his son brandon who was father's brother, and two hundred of his best men. none had ever returned. and father had gone south, with arya and sansa, and jory and hullen and fat tom and the rest, and later mother and ser rodrik had gone, and they hadn't come back either. and now robb meant to go. not to king's landing and not to swear fealty, but to riverrun, with a sword in his hand. and if their lord father were truly a prisoner, that could mean his death for a certainty. it frightened bran more than he could say. if robb has to go, watch over him, bran entreated the old gods, as they watched him with the heart tree's red eyes, and watch over his men, hal and quent and the rest, and lord umber and lady mormont and the other lords. and theon too, i suppose. watch them and keep them safe, if it please you, gods. help them defeat the lannisters and save father and bring them home. a faint wind sighed through the godswood and the red leaves stirred and whispered. summer bared his teeth. you hear them, boy? a voice asked. bran lifted his head. osha stood across the pool, beneath an ancient oak, her face shadowed by leaves. even in irons, the wildling moved quiet as a cat. summer circled the pool, sniffed at her. the tall woman flinched. summer, to me, bran called. the direwolf took one final sniff, spun, and bounded back. bran wrapped his arms around him. what are you doing here? he had not seen osha since they'd taken her captive in the wolfswood, though he knew she'd been set to working in the kitchens. they are my gods too, osha said. beyond the wall, they are the only gods. her hair was growing out, brown and shaggy. it made her look more womanly, that and the simple dress of brown roughspun they'd given her when they took her mail and leather. gage lets me have my prayers from time to time, when i feel the need, and i let him do as he likes under my skirt, when he feels the need. it's nothing to me. i like the smell of flour on his hands, and he's gentler than stiv. she gave an awkward bow. i'll leave you. there's pots that want scouring. no, stay, bran commanded her. tell me what you meant, about hearing the gods. osha studied him. you asked them and they're answering. open your ears, listen, you'll hear. bran listened. it's only the wind, he said after a moment, uncertain. the leaves are rustling. who do you think sends the wind, if not the gods? she seated herself across the pool from him, clinking faintly as she moved. mikken had fixed iron manacles to her ankles, with a heavy chain between them; she could walk, so long as she kept her strides small, but there was no way for her to run, or climb, or mount a horse. they see you, boy. they hear you talking. that rustling, that's them talking back. what are they saying? they're sad. your lord brother will get no help from them, not where he's going. the old gods have no power in the south. the weirwoods there were all cut down, thousands of years ago. how can they watch your brother when they have no eyes? bran had not thought of that. it frightened him. if even the gods could not help his brother, what hope was there? maybe osha wasn't hearing them right. he cocked his head and tried to listen again. he thought he could hear the sadness now, but nothing more than that. the rustling grew louder. bran heard muffled footfalls and a low humming, and hodor came blundering out of the trees, naked and smiling. hodor! he must have heard our voices, bran said. hodor, you forgot your clothes. hodor, hodor agreed. he was dripping wet from the neck down, steaming in the chill air. his body was covered with brown hair, thick as a pelt. between his legs, his manhood swung long and heavy. osha eyed him with a sour smile. now there's a big man, she said. he has giant's blood in him, or i'm the queen. maester luwin says there are no more giants. he says they're all dead, like the children of the forest. all that's left of them are old bones in the earth that men turn up with plows from time to time. let maester luwin ride beyond the wall, osha said. he'll find giants then, or they'll find him. my brother killed one. ten foot tall she was, and stunted at that. they've been known to grow big as twelve and thirteen feet. fierce things they are too, all hair and teeth, and the wives have beards like their husbands, so there's no telling them apart. the women take human men for lovers, and it's from them the half bloods come. it goes harder on the women they catch. the men are so big they'll rip a maid apart before they get her with child. she grinned at him. but you don't know what i mean, do you, boy? yes i do, bran insisted. he understood about mating; he had seen dogs in the yard, and watched a stallion mount a mare. but talking about it made him uncomfortable. he looked at hodor. go back and bring your clothes, hodor, he said. go dress. hodor. he walked back the way he had come, ducking under a low-hanging tree limb. he was awfully big, bran thought as he watched him go. are there truly giants beyond the wall? he asked osha, uncertainly. giants and worse than giants, lordling. i tried to tell your brother when he asked his questions, him and your maester and that smiley boy greyjoy. the cold winds are rising, and men go out from their fires and never come back... or if they do, they're not men no more, but only wights, with blue eyes and cold black hands. why do you think i run south with stiv and hali and the rest of them fools? mance thinks he'll fight, the brave sweet stubborn man, like the white walkers were no more than rangers, but what does he know? he can call himself king- beyond-the-wall all he likes, but he's still just another old black crow who flew down from the shadow tower. he's never tasted winter. i was born up there, child, like my mother and her mother before her and her mother before her, born of the free folk. we remember. osha stood, her chains rattling together. i tried to tell your lordling brother. only yesterday, when i saw him in the yard.'mtord stark,' i called to him, respectful as you please, but he looked through me, and that sweaty oaf greatjon umber shoves me out of the path. so be it. i'll wear my irons and hold my tongue. a man who won't listen can't hear. tell me. robb will listen to me, i know he will. will he now? we'll see. you tell him this, m'lord. you tell him he's bound on marching the wrong way. it's north he should be taking his swords. north, not south. you hear me? bran nodded. i'll tell him. but that night, when they feasted in the great hall, robb was not with them. he took his meal in the solar instead, with lord rickard and the greatjon and the other lords bannermen, to make the final plans for the long march to come. it was left to bran to fill his place at the head of the table, and act the host to lord karstark's sons and honored friends. they were already at their places when hodor carried bran into the hall on his back, and knelt beside the high seat. two of the serving men helped lift him from his basket. bran could feel the eyes of every stranger in the hall. it had grown quiet. my lords, hallis mollen announced, brandon stark, of winterfell. i welcome you to our fires, bran said stiffly, and offer you meat and mead in honor of our friendship. harrion karstark, the oldest of lord rickard' s sons, bowed, and his brothers after him, yet as they settled back in their places he heard the younger two talking in low voices, over the clatter of wine cups. i'll... sooner die than live like that, muttered one, his father's namesake eddard, and his brother torrhen said likely the boy was broken inside as well as out, too craven to take his own life. broken, bran thought bitterly as he clutched his knife. is that what he was now? bran the broken? i don't want to be broken, he whispered fiercely to maester luwin, who'd been seated to his right. i want to be a knight. there are some who call my order the knights of the mind, luwin replied. you are a surpassing clever boy when you work at it, bran. have you ever thought that you might wear a maester's chain? there is no limit to what you might learn. i want to learn magic, bran told him. the crow promised that i would fly. maester luwin sighed. i can teach you history, healing, herblore. i can teach you the speech of ravens, and how to build a castle, and the way a sailor steers his ship by the stars. i can teach you to measure the days and mark the seasons, and at the citadel in oldtown they can teach you a thousand things more. but, bran, no man can teach you magic. the children could, bran said. the children of the forest. that reminded him of the promise he had made to osha in the godswood, so he told luwin what she had said. the maester listened politely. the wildling woman could give old nan lessons in telling tales, i think, he said when bran was done. i will talk with her again if you like, but it would be best if you did not trouble your brother with this folly. he has more than enough to concern him without fretting over giants and dead men in the woods. it's the lannisters who hold your lord father, bran, not the children of the forest. he put a gentle hand on bran's arm. think on what i said, child. and two days later, as a red dawn broke across a windswept sky, bran found himself in the yard beneath the gatehouse, strapped atop dancer as he said his farewells to his brother. you are the lord in winterfell now, robb told him. he was mounted on a shaggy grey stallion, his shield hung from the horse's side; wood banded with iron, white and grey, and on it the snarling face of a direwolf his brother wore grey chainmail over bleached leathers, sword and dagger at his waist, a fur-trimmed cloak across his shoulders. you must take my place, as i took father's, until we come home. i know, bran replied miserably. he had never felt so little or alone or scared. he did not know how to be a lord. listen to maester luwin's counsel, and take care of rickon. tell him that i'll be back as soon as the fighting is done. rickon had refused to come down. he was up in his chamber, redeyed and defiant. no! he'd screamed when bran had asked if he didn't want to say farewell to robb. no farewell! i told him, bran said. he says no one ever comes back. he can't be a baby forever. he's a stark, and near four. robb sighed. well, mother will be home soon. and i'll bring back father, i promise. he wheeled his courser around and trotted away. grey wind followed, loping beside the warhorse, lean and swift. hallis mollen went before them through the gate, carrying the rippling white banner of house stark atop a high standard of grey ash. theon greyjoy and the greatjon fell in on either side of robb, and their knights formed up in a double column behind them, steel- tipped lances glinting in the sun. uncomfortably, he remembered osha's words. he's marching the wrong way, he thought. for an instant he wanted to gallop after him and shout a warning, but when robb vanished beneath the portcullis, the moment was gone. beyond the castle walls, a roar of sound went up. the foot soldiers and townsfolk were cheering robb as he rode past, bran knew; cheering for lord stark, for the lord of winterfell on his great stallion, with his cloak streaming and grey wind racing beside him. they would never cheer for him that way, he realized with a dull ache. he might be the lord in winterfell while his brother and father were gone, but he was still bran the broken. he could not even get off his own horse, except to fall. when the distant cheers had faded to silence and the yard was empty at last, winterfell seemed deserted and dead. bran looked around at the faces of those who remained, women and children and old men... and hodor. the huge stableboy had a lost and frightened look to his face. hodor? he said sadly. hodor, bran agreed, wondering what it meant. the oldest were men grown, seventeen and eighteen years from the day of their naming. one was past twenty. most were younger, sixteen or less. bran watched them from the balcony of maester luwin's turret, listening to them grunt and strain and curse as they swung their staves and wooden swords. the yard was alive to the clack of wood on wood, punctuated all too often by thwacks and yowls of pain when a blow struck leather or flesh. ser rodrik strode among the boys, face reddening beneath his white whiskers, muttering at them one and all. bran had never seen the old knight look so fierce. no, he kept saying. no. no. no. they don't fight very well, bran said dubiously. he scratched summer idly behind the ears as the direwolf tore at a haunch of meat. bones crunched between his teeth. for a certainty, maester luwin agreed with a deep sigh. the maester was peering through his big myrish lens tube, measuring shadows and noting the position of the comet that hung low in the morning sky. yet given time... ser rodrik has the truth of it, we need men to walk the walls. your lord father took the cream of his guard to king's landing, and your brother took the rest, along with all the likely lads for leagues around. many will not come back to us, and we must needs find the men to take their places. bran stared resentfully at the sweating boys below. if i still had my legs, i could beat them all. he remembered the last time he'd held a sword in his hand, when the king had come to winterfell. it was only a wooden sword, yet he'd knocked prince tommen down half a hundred times. ser rodrik should teach me to use a poleaxe. if i had a poleaxe with a big long haft, hodor could be my legs. we could be a knight together. i think that... unlikely, maester luwin said. bran, when a man fights, his arms and legs and thoughts must be as one. below in the yard, ser rodrik was yelling. you fight like a goose. he pecks you and you peck him harder. pany! block the blow. goose fighting will not suffice. if those were real swords, the first peck would take your arm off! one of the other boys laughed, and the old knight rounded on him. you laugh. you. now that is gall. you fight like a hedgehog... there was a knight once who couldn't see, bran said stubbornly, as ser rodrik went on below. old nan told me about him. he had a long staff with blades at both ends and he could spin it in his hands and chop two men at once. symeon star-eyes, luwin said as he marked numbers in a book. when he lost his eyes, he put star sapphires in the empty sockets, or so the singers claim. bran, that is only a story, like the tales of florian the fool. a fable from the age of heroes. the maester tsked. you must put these dreams aside, they will only break your heart. the mention of dreams reminded him. i dreamed about the crow again last night. the one with three eyes. he flew into my bedchamber and told me to come with him, so i did. we went down to the crypts. father was there, and we talked. he was sad. and why was that? luwin peered through his tube. it was something to do about jon, i think. the dream had been deeply disturbing, more so than any of the other crow dreams. hodor won't go down into the crypts. the maester had only been half listening, bran could tell. he lifted his eye from the tube, blinking. hodor won't... go down into the crypts. when i woke, i told him to take me down, to see if father was truly there. at first he didn't know what i was saying, but i got him to the steps by telling him to go here and go there, only then he wouldn't go down. he just stood on the top step and said 'hodor,' like he was scared of the dark, but i had a torch. it made me so mad i almost gave him a swat in the head, like old nan is always doing. he saw the way the maester was frowning and hurriedly added, i didn't, though. good. hodor is a man, not a mule to be beaten. in the dream i flew down with the crow, but i can't do that when i'm awake, bran explained. why would you want to go down to the crypts? i told you. to look for father. the maester tugged at the chain around his neck, as he often did when he was uncomfortable. bran, sweet child, one day lord eddard will sit below in stone, beside his father and his father's father and all the starks back to the old kings in the north... but that will not be for many years, gods be good. your father is a prisoner of the queen in king's landing. you will not find him in the crypts. he was there last night. i talked to him. stubborn boy, the maester sighed, setting his book aside. would you like to go see? i can't. hodor won't go, and the steps are too narrow and twisty for dancer. i believe i can solve that difficulty. in place of hodor, the wildling woman osha was summoned. she was tall and tough and uncomplaining, willing to go wherever she was commanded. i lived my life beyond the wall, a hole in the ground won't fret me none, m'lords, she said. summer, come, bran called as she lifted him in wiry-strong arms. the direwolf left his bone and followed as osha carried bran across the yard and down the spiral steps to the cold vault under the earth. maester luwin went ahead with a torch. bran did not even mind-too badly-that she carried him in her arms and not on her back. ser rodrik had ordered osha's chain struck off, since she had served faithfully and well since she had been at winterfell. she still wore the heavy iron shackles around her ankles-a sign that she was not yet wholly trusted-but they did not hinder her sure strides down the steps. bran could not recall the last time he had been in the crypts. it had been before, for certain. when he was little, he used to play down here with robb and jon and his sisters. he wished they were here now; the vault might not have seemed so dark and scary. summer stalked out in the echoing gloom, then stopped, lifted his head, and sniffed the chill dead air. he bared his teeth and crept backward, eyes glowing golden in the light of the maester's torch. even osha, hard as old iron, seemed uncomfortable. grim folk, by the look of them, she said as she eyed the long row of granite starks on their stone thrones. they were the kings of winter, bran whispered. somehow it felt wrong to talk too loudly in this place. osha smiled. winter's got no king. if you'd seen it, you'd know that, summer boy. they were the kings in the north for thousands of years, maester luwin said, lifting the torch high so the light shone on the stone faces. some were hairy and bearded, shaggy men fierce as the wolves that crouched by their feet. others were shaved clean, their features gaunt and sharp-edged as the iron longswords across their laps. hard men for a hard time. come. he strode briskly down the vault, past the procession of stone pillars and the endless carved figures. a tongue of flame trailed back from the upraised torch as he went. the vault was cavernous, longer than winterfell itself, and jon had told him once that there were other levels underneath, vaults even deeper and darker where the older kings were buried. it would not do to lose the light. summer refused to move from the steps, even when osha followed the torch, bran in her arms. do you recall your history, bran? the maester said as they walked. tell osha who they were and what they did, if you can. he looked at the passing faces and the tales came back to him. the maester had told him the stories, and old nan had made them come alive. that one is jon stark. when the sea raiders landed in the east, he drove them out and built the castle at white harbor. his son was rickard stark, not my father's father but another rickard, he took the neck away from the marsh king and married his daughter. theon stark's the real thin one with the long hair and the skinny beard. they called him the'hungry wolf,' because he was always at war. that's a brandon, the tall one with the dreamy face, he was brandon the shipwright, because he loved the sea. his tomb is empty. he tried to sail west across the sunset sea and was never seen again. his son was brandon the burner, because he put the torch to all his father's ships in grief. there's rodrik stark, who won bear island in a wrestling match and gave it to the mormonts. and that's torrhen stark, the king who knelt. he was the last king in the north and the first lord of winterfell, after he yielded to aegon the conqueror. oh, there, he's cregan stark. he fought with prince aemon once, and the dragonknight said he'd never faced a finer swordsman. they were almost at the end now, and bran felt a sadness creeping over him. and there's my grandfather, lord rickard, who was beheaded by mad king aerys. his daughter lyanna and his son brandon are in the tombs beside him. not me, another brandon, my father's brother. they're not supposed to have statues, that's only for the lords and the kings, but my father loved them so much he had them done. the maid's a fair one, osha said. robert was betrothed to marry her, but prince rhaegar carried her off and raped her, bran explained. robert fought a war to win her back. he killed rhaegar on the trident with his hammer, but lyanna died and he never got her back at all. a sad tale, said osha, but those empty holes are sadder. lord eddard's tomb, for when his time comes, maester luwin said. is this where you saw your father in your dream, bran? yes. the memory made him shiver. he looked around the vault uneasily, the hairs on the back of his neck bristling. had he heard a noise? was there someone here? maester luwin stepped toward the open sepulchre, torch in hand. as you see, he's not here. nor will he be, for many a year. dreams are only dreams, child. he thrust his arm into the blackness inside the tomb, as into the mouth of some great beast. do you see? it's quite empt- the darkness sprang at him, snarling. bran saw eyes like green fire, a flash of teeth, fur as black as the pit around them. maester luwin yelled and threw up his hands. the torch went flying from his fingers, caromed off the stone face of brandon stark, and tumbled to the statue's feet, the flames licking up his legs. in the drunken shifting torchlight, they saw luwin struggling with the direwolf, beating at his muzzle with one hand while the jaws closed on the other. summer! bran screamed. and summer came, shooting from the dimness behind them, a leaping shadow. he slammed into shaggydog and knocked him back, and the two direwolves rolled over and over in a tangle of grey and black fur, snapping and biting at each other, while maester luwin struggled to his knees, his arm torn and bloody. osha propped bran up against lord rickard's stone wolf as she hurried to assist the maester. in the light of the guttering torch, shadow wolves twenty feet tall fought on the wall and roof. shaggy, a small voice called. when bran looked up, his little brother was standing in the mouth of father's tomb. with one final snap at summer's face, shaggydog broke off and bounded to rickon's side. you let my father be, rickon warned luwin. you let him be. rickon, bran said softly. father's not here. yes he is. i saw him. tears glistened on rickon's face. i saw him last night. in your dream... ?' rickon nodded. you leave him. you leave him be. he's coming home now, like he promised. he's coming home. bran had never seen maester luwin took so uncertain before. blood dripped down his arm where shaggydog had shredded the wool of his sleeve and the flesh beneath. osha, the torch, he said, biting through his pain, and she snatched it up before it went out. soot stains blackened both legs of his uncle's likeness. that... that beast, luwin went on, is supposed to be chained up in the kennels. rickon patted shaggydog's muzzle, damp with blood. i let him loose. he doesn't like chains. he licked at his fingers. rickon, bran said, would you like to come with me? no. i like it here. it's dark here. and cold. i'm not afraid. i have to wait for father. you can wait with me, bran said. we'll wait together, you and me and our wolves. both of the direwolves were licking wounds now, and would bear close watching. bran, the maester said firmly, i know you mean well, but shaggydog is too wild to run loose. i'm the third man he's savaged. give him the freedom of the castle and it's only a question of time before he kills someone. the truth is hard, but the wolf has to be chained, or... he hesitated. ...or killed, bran thought, but what he said was, he was not made for chains. we will wait in your tower, all of us. that is quite impossible, maester luwin said. osha grinned. the boy's the lordling here, as i recall. she handed luwin back his torch and scooped bran up into her arms again. the maester's tower it is. will you come, rickon? his brother nodded. if shaggy comes too, he said, running after osha and bran, and there was nothing maester luwin could do but follow, keeping a wary eye on the wolves. maester luwin' s turret was so cluttered that it seemed to bran a wonder that he ever found anything. tottering piles of books covered tables and chairs, rows of stoppered jars lined the shelves, candle stubs and puddles of dried wax dotted the furniture, the bronze myrish lens tube sat on a tripod by the terrace door, star charts hung from the walls, shadow maps lay scattered among the rushes, papers, quills, and pots of inks were everywhere, and all of it was spotted with droppings from the ravens in the rafters. their strident quorks drifted down from above as osha washed and cleaned and bandaged the maester's wounds, under luwin's terse instruction. this is folly, the small grey man said while she dabbed at the wolf bites with a stinging ointment. i agree that it is odd that both you boys dreamed the same dream, yet when you stop to consider it, it's only natural. you miss your lord father, and you know that he is a captive. fear can fever a man's mind and give him queer thoughts. rickon is too young to comprehend- i'm four now, rickon said. he was peeking through the lens tube at the gargoyles on the first keep. the direwolves sat on opposite sides of the large round room, licking their wounds and gnawing on bones. -too young, and-ooh, seven hells, that burns, no, don't stop, more. too young, as i say, but you, bran, you're old enough to know that dreams are only dreams. some are, some aren't. osha poured pale red firemilk into a long gash. luwin gasped. the children of the forest could tell you a thing or two about dreaming. tears were streaming down the maester's face, yet he shook his head doggedly. the children... live only in dreams. now. dead and gone. enough, that's enough. now the bandages. pads and then wrap, and make it tight, i'll be bleeding. old nan says the children knew the songs of the trees, that they could fly like birds and swim like fish and talk to the animals, bran said. she says that they made music so beautiful that it made you cry like a little baby just to hear it. and all this they did with magic, maester luwin said, distracted. i wish they were here now. a spell would heal my arm less painfully, and they could talk to shaggydog and tell him not to bite. he gave the big black wolf an angry glance out of the corner of his eye. take a lesson, bran. the man who trusts in spells is dueling with a glass sword. as the children did. here, let me show you something. he stood abruptly, crossed the room, and returned with a green jar in his good hand. have a look at these, he said as he pulled the stopper and shook out a handful of shiny black arrowheads. bran picked one up. it's made of glass. curious, rickon drifted closer to peer over the table. dragonglass, osha named it as she sat down beside luwin, bandagings in hand. obsidian, maester luwin insisted, holding out his wounded arm. forged in the fires of the gods, far below the earth. the children of the forest hunted with that, thousands of years ago. the children worked no metal. in place of mail, they wore long shirts of woven leaves and bound their legs in bark, so they seemed to melt into the wood. in place of swords, they carried blades of obsidian. and still do. osha placed soft pads over the bites on the maester's forearm and bound them tight with long strips of linen. bran held the arrowhead up close. the black glass was slick and shiny. he thought it beautiful. can i keep one? as you wish, the maester said. i want one too, rickon said. i want four. i'm four. luwin made him count them out. careful, they're still sharp. don't cut yourself. tell me about the children, bran said. it was important. what do you wish to know? everything. maester luwin tugged at his chain collar where it chafed against his neck. they were people of the dawn age, the very first, before kings and kingdoms, he said. in those days, there were no castles or holdfasts, no cities, not so much as a market town to be found between here and the sea of dome. there were no men at all. only the children of the forest dwelt in the lands we now call the seven kingdoms. they were a people dark and beautiful, small of stature, no taller than children even when grown to manhood. they lived in the depths of the wood, in caves and crannogs and secret tree towns. slight as they were, the children were quick and graceful. male and female hunted together, with weirwood bows and flying snares. their gods were the gods of the forest, stream, and stone, the old gods whose names are secret. their wise men were called greenseers, and carved strange faces in the weirwoods to keep watch on the woods. how long the children reigned here or where they came from, no man can know. but some twelve thousand years ago, the first men appeared from the east, crossing the broken arm of dome before it was broken. they came with bronze swords and great leathern shields, riding horses. no horse had ever been seen on this side of the narrow sea. no doubt the children were as frightened by the horses as the first men were by the faces in the trees. as the first men carved out holdfasts and farms, they cut down the faces and gave them to the fire. horrorstruck, the children went to war. the old songs say that the greenseers used dark magics to make the seas rise and sweep away the land, shattering the arm, but it was too late to close the door. the wars went on until the earth ran red with blood of men and children both, but more children than men, for men were bigger and stronger, and wood and stone and obsidian make a poor match for bronze. finally the wise of both races prevailed, and the chiefs and heroes of the first men met the greenseers and wood dancers amidst the weirwood groves of a small island in the great lake called gods eye. there they forged the pact. the first men were given the coastlands, the high plains and bright meadows, the mountains and bogs, but the deep woods were to remain forever the children's, and no more weirwoods were to be put to the axe anywhere in the realm. so the gods might bear witness to the signing, every tree on the island was given a face, and afterward, the sacred order of green men was formed to keep watch over the isle of faces. the pact began four thousand years of friendship between men and children. in time, the first men even put aside the gods they had brought with them, and took up the worship of the secret gods of the wood. the signing of the pact ended the dawn age, and began the age of heroes. bran's fist curled around the shiny black arrowhead. but the children of the forest are all gone now, you said. here, they are, said osha, as she bit off the end of the last bandage with her teeth. north of the wall, things are different. that's where the children went, and the giants, and the other old races. maester luwin sighed. woman, by rights you ought to be dead or in chains. the starks have treated you more gently than you deserve. it is unkind to repay them for their kindness by filling the boys' heads with folly. tell me where they went, bran said. i want to know. me too, rickon echoed. oh, very well, luwin muttered. so long as the kingdoms of the first men held sway, the pact endured, all through the age of heroes and the long night and the birth of the seven kingdoms, yet finally there came a time, many centuries later, when other peoples crossed the narrow sea. the andals were the first, a race of tall, fair- haired warriors who came with steel and fire and the seven-pointed star of the new gods painted on their chests. the wars lasted hundreds of years, but in the end the six southron kingdoms all fell before them. only here, where the king in the north threw back every army that tried to cross the neck, did the rule of the first men endure. the andals burnt out the weirwood groves, hacked down the faces, slaughtered the children where they found them, and everywhere proclaimed the triumph of the seven over the old gods. so the children fled north- summer began to howl. maester luwin broke off, startled. when shaggydog bounded to his feet and added his voice to his brother's, dread clutched at bran's heart. it's coming, he whispered, with the certainty of despair. he had known it since last night, he realized, since the crow had led him down into the crypts to say farewell. he had known it, but he had not believed. he had wanted maester luwin to be right. the crow, he thought, the three-eyed crow... the howling stopped as suddenly as it had begun. summer padded across the tower floor to shaggydog, and began to lick at a mat of bloody fur on the back of his brother's neck. from the window came a flutter of wings. a raven landed on the grey stone sill, opened its beak, and gave a harsh, raucous rattle of distress. rickon began to cry. his arrowheads fell from his hand one by one and clattered on the floor. bran pulled him close and hugged him. maester luwin stared at the black bird as if it were a scorpion with feathers. he rose, slow as a sleepwalker, and moved to the window. when he whistled, the raven hopped onto his bandaged forearm. there was dried blood on its wings. a hawk, luwin murmured, perhaps an owl. poor thing, a wonder it got through. he took the letter from its leg. bran found himself shivering as the maester unrolled the paper. what is it? he said, holding his brother all the harder. you know what it is, boy, osha said, not unkindly. she put her hand on his head. maester luwin looked up at them numbly, a small grey man with blood on the sleeve of his grey wool robe and tears in his bright grey eyes. my lords, he said to the sons, in a voice gone hoarse and shrunken, we... we shall need to find a stonecarver who knew his likeness well... 