catelyn had never liked this godswood. she had been born a tully, at riverrun far to the south, on the red fork of the trident. the godswood there was a garden, bright and airy, where tall redwoods spread dappled shadows across tinkling streams, birds sang from hidden nests, and the air was spicy with the scent of flowers. the gods of winterfell kept a different sort of wood. it was a dark, primal place, three acres of old forest untouched for ten thousand years as the gloomy castle rose around it. it smelled of moist earth and decay. no redwoods grew here. this was a wood of stubborn sentinel trees armored in grey-green needles, of mighty oaks, of ironwoods as old as the realm itself. here thick black trunks crowded close together while twisted branches wove a dense canopy overhead and misshappen roots wrestled beneath the soil. this was a place of deep silence and brooding shadows, and the gods who lived here had no names. but she knew she would find her husband here tonight. whenever he took a man's life, afterward he would seek the quiet of the godswood. catelyn had been anointed with the seven oils and named in the rainbow of light that filled the sept of riverrun. she was of the faith, like her father and grandfather and his father before him. her gods had names, and their faces were as familiar as the faces of her parents. worship was a septon with a censer, the smell of incense, a seven-sided crystal alive with light, voices raised in song. the tullys kept a godswood, as all the great houses did, but it was only a place to walk or read or lie in the sun. worship was for the sept. for her sake, ned had built a small sept where she might sing to the seven faces of god, but the blood of the first men still flowed in the veins of the starks, and his own gods were the old ones, the nameless, faceless gods of the greenwood they shared with the vanished children of the forest. at the center of the grove an ancient weirwood brooded over a small pool where the waters were black and cold. the heart tree, ned called it. the weirwood's bark was white as bone, its leaves dark red, like a thousand bloodstained hands. a face had been carved in the trunk of the great tree, its features long and melancholy, the deep-cut eyes red with dried sap and strangely watchful. they were old, those eyes; older than winterfell itself. they had seen brandon the builder set the first stone, if the tales were true; they had watched the castle's granite walls rise around them. it was said that the children of the forest had carved the faces in the trees during the dawn centuries before the coming of the first men across the narrow sea. in the south the last weirwoods had been cut down or burned out a thousand years ago, except on the isle of faces where the green men kept their silent watch. up here it was different. here every castle had its godswood, and every godswood had its heart tree, and every heart tree its face. catelyn found her husband beneath the weirwood, seated on a moss-covered stone. the greatsword ice was across his lap, and he was cleaning the blade in those waters black as night. a thousand years of humus lay thick upon the godswood floor, swallowing the sound of her feet, but the red eyes of the weirwood seemed to follow her as she came. ned, she called softly. he lifted his head to look at her. catelyn, he said. his voice was distant and formal. where are the children? he would always ask her that. in the kitchen, arguing about names for the wolf pups. she spread her cloak on the forest floor and sat beside the pool, her back to the weirwood. she could feel the eyes watching her, but she did her best to ignore them. arya is already in love, and sansa is charmed and gracious, but rickon is not quite sure. is he afraid? ned asked. a little, she admitted. he is only three. ned frowned. he must learn to face his fears. he will not be three forever. and winter is coming. yes, catelyn agreed. the words gave her a chill, as they always did. the stark words. every noble house had its words. family mottoes, touchstones, prayers of sorts, they boasted of honor and glory, promised loyalty and truth, swore faith and courage. all but the starks. winter is coming, said the stark words. not for the first time, she reflected on what a strange people these northerners; were. the man died well, i'll give him that, ned said. he had a swatch of oiled leather in one hand. he ran it lightly up the greatsword as he spoke, polishing the metal to a dark glow. i was glad for bran's sake. you would have been proud of bran. i am always proud of bran, catelyn replied, watching the sword as he stroked it. she could see the rippling deep within the steel, where the metal had been folded back on itself a hundred times in the forging. catelyn had no love for swords, but she could not deny that ice had its own beauty. it had been forged in valyria, before the doom had come to the old freehold, when the ironsmiths had worked their metal with spells as well as hammers. four hundred years old it was, and as sharp as the day it was forged. the name it bore was older still, a legacy from the age of heroes, when the starks were kings in the north. he was the fourth this year, ned said grimly. the poor man was half-mad. something had put a fear in him so deep that my words could not reach him. he sighed. ben writes that the strength of the night's watch is down below a thousand. it's not only desertions. they are losing men on rangings as well. is it the wildlings? she asked. who else? ned lifted ice, looked down the cool steel length of it. and it will only grow worse. the day may come when i will have no choice but to call the banners and ride north to deal with this kingbeyond-the-wall for good and all. beyond the wall? the thought made catelyn shudder. ned saw the dread on her face. mance rayder is nothing for us to fear. there are darker things beyond the wall. she glanced behind her at the heart tree, the pale bark and red eyes, watching, listening, thinking its long slow thoughts. his smile was gentle. you listen to too many of old nan's stories. the others are as dead as the children of the forest, gone eight thousand years. maester luwin will tell you they never lived at all. no living man has ever seen one. until this morning, no living man had ever seen a direwolf either, catelyn reminded him. i ought to know better than to argue with a tully, he said with a rueful smile. he slid ice back into its sheath. you did not come here to tell me crib tales. i know how little you like this place. what is it, my lady? catelyn took her husband's hand. there was grievous news today, my lord. i did not wish to trouble you until you had cleansed yourself. there was no way to soften the blow, so she told him straight. i am so sorry, my love. jon arryn is dead. his eyes found hers, and she could see how hard it took him, as she had known it would. in his youth, ned had fostered at the eyrie, and the childless lord arryn had become a second father to him and his fellow ward, robert baratheon. when the mad king aerys targaryen had demanded their heads, the lord of the eyrie had raised his moon-and-falcon banners in revolt rather than give up those he had pledged to protect. and one day fifteen years ago, this second father had become a brother as well, as he and ned stood together in the sept at riverrun to wed two sisters, the daughters of lord hoster tully. jon... he said. is this news certain? it was the king's seal, and the letter is in robert's own hand. i saved it for you. he said lord arryn was taken quickly. even maester pycelle was helpless, but he brought the milk of the poppy, so jon did not linger long in pain. that is some small mercy, i suppose, he said. she could see the grief on his face, but even then he thought first of her. your sister, he said. and jon's boy. what word of them? the message said only that they were well, and had returned to the eyrie, catelyn said. i wish they had gone to riverrun instead. the eyrie is high and lonely, and it was ever her husband's place, not hers. lord jon's memory will haunt each stone. i know my sister. she needs the comfort of family and friends around her. your uncle waits in the vale, does he not? jon named him knight of the gate, i'd heard. catelyn nodded. brynden will do what he can for her, and for the boy. that is some comfort, but still... go to her, ned urged. take the children. fill her halls with noise and shouts and laughter. that boy of hers needs other children about him, and lysa should not be alone in her grief. would that i could, catelyn said. the letter had other tidings. the king is riding to winterfell to seek you out. it took ned a moment to comprehend her words, but when the understanding came, the darkness left his eyes. robert is coming here? when she nodded, a smile broke across his face. catelyn wished she could share his joy. but she had heard the talk in the yards; a direwolf dead in the snow, a broken antler in its throat. dread coiled within her like a snake, but she forced herself to smile at this man she loved, this man who put no faith in signs. i knew that would please you, she said. we should send word to your brother on the wall. yes, of course, he agreed. ben will want to be here. i shall tell maester luwin to send his swiftest bird. ned rose and pulled her to her feet. damnation, how many years has it been? and he gives us no more notice than this? how many in his party, did the message say? i should think a hundred knights, at the least, with all their retainers, and half again as many freeriders. cersei and the children travel with them. robert will keep an easy pace for their sakes, he said. it is just as well. that will give us more time to prepare. the queen's brothers are also in the party, she told him. ned grimaced at that. there was small love between him and the queen's family, catelyn knew. the lannisters of casterly rock had come late to robert's cause, when victory was all but certain, and he had never forgiven them. well, if the price for robert's company is an infestation of lannisters, so be it. it sounds as though robert is bringing half his court. where the king goes, the realm follows, she said. it will be good to see the children. the youngest was still sucking at the lannister woman's teat the last time i saw him. he must be, what, five by now? prince tornmen is seven, she told him. the same age as bran. please, ned, guard your tongue. the lannister woman is our queen, and her pride is said to grow with every passing year. ned squeezed her hand. there must be a feast, of course, with singers, and robert will want to hunt. i shall send jory south with an honor guard to meet them on the kingsroad and escort them back. gods, how are we going to feed them all? on his way already, you said? damn the man. damn his royal hide. of all the rooms in winterfell's great keep, catelyn's bedchambers were the hottest. she seldom had to light a fire. the castle had been built over natural hot springs, and the scalding waters rushed through its walls and chambers like blood through a man's body, driving the chill from the stone halls, filling the glass gardens with a moist warmth, keeping the earth from freezing. open pools smoked day and night in a dozen small courtyards. that was a little thing, in summer; in winter, it was the difference between life and death. catelyn's bath was always hot and steaming, and her walls warm to the touch. the warmth reminded her of riverrun, of days in the sun with lysa and edmure, but ned could never abide the heat. the starks were made for the cold, he would tell her, and she would laugh and tell him in that case they had certainly built their castle in the wrong place. so when they had finished, ned rolled off and climbed from her bed, as he had a thousand times before. he crossed the room, pulled back the heavy tapestries, and threw open the high narrow windows one by one, letting the night air into the chamber. the wind swirled around him as he stood facing the dark, naked and empty-handed. catelyn pulled the furs to her chin and watched him. he looked somehow smaller and more vulnerable, like the youth she had wed in the sept at riverrun, fifteen long years gone. her loins still ached from the urgency of his lovemaking. it was a good ache. she could feel his seed within her. she prayed that it might quicken there. it had been three years since rickon. she was not too old. she could give him another son. i will refuse him, ned said as he turned back to her. his eyes were haunted, his voice thick with doubt. catelyn sat up in the bed. you cannot. you must not. my duties are here in the north. i have no wish to be robert's hand. he will not understand that. he is a king now, and kings are not like other men. if you refuse to serve him, he will wonder why, and sooner or later he will begin to suspect that you oppose him. can't you see the danger that would put us in? ned shook his head, refusing to believe. robert would never harm me or any of mine. we were closer than brothers. he loves me. if i refuse him, he will roar and curse and bluster, and in a week we will laugh about it together. i know the man! you knew the man, she said. the king is a stranger to you. catelyn remembered the direwolf dead in the snow, the broken antler lodged deep in her throat. she had to make him see. pride is everything to a king, my lord. robert came all this way to see you, to bring you these great honors, you cannot throw them back in his face. honors? ned laughed bitterly. in his eyes, yes, she said. and in yours? and in mine, she blazed, angry now. why couldn't he see? he offers his own son in marriage to our daughter, what else would you call that? sansa might someday be queen. her sons could rule from the wall to the mountains of dome. what is so wrong with that? gods, catelyn, sansa is only eleven, ned said. and joffrey... joffrey is... she finished for him. crown prince, and heir to the iron throne. and i was only twelve when my father promised me to your brother brandon. that brought a bitter twist to ned's mouth. brandon. yes. brandon would know what to do. he always did. it was all meant for brandon. you, winterfell, everything. he was born to be a king's hand and a father to queens. i never asked for this cup to pass to me. perhaps not, catelyn said, but brandon is dead, and the cup has passed, and you must drink from it, like it or not. ned turned away from her, back to the night. he stood staring out in the darkness, watching the moon and the stars perhaps, or perhaps the sentries on the wall. catelyn softened then, to see his pain. eddard stark had married her in brandon's place, as custom decreed, but the shadow of his dead brother still lay between them, as did the other, the shadow of the woman he would not name, the woman who had borne him his bastard son. she was about to go to him when the knock came at the door, loud and unexpected. ned turned, frowning. what is it? desmond's voice came through the door. my lord, maester luwin is without and begs urgent audience. you told him i had left orders not to be disturbed? yes, my lord. he insists. very well. send him in. ned crossed to the wardrobe and slipped on a heavy robe. catelyn realized suddenly how cold it had become. she sat up in bed and pulled the furs to her chin. perhaps we should close the windows, she suggested. ned nodded absently. maester luwin was shown in. the maester was a small grey man. his eyes were grey, and quick, and saw much. his hair was grey, what little the years had left him. his robe was grey wool, trimmed with white fur, the stark colors. its great floppy sleeves had pockets hidden inside. luwin was always tucking things into those sleeves and producing other things from them: books, messages, strange artifacts, toys for the children. with all he kept hidden in his sleeves, catelyn was surprised that maester luwin could lift his arms at all. the maester waited until the door had closed behind him before he spoke. my lord, he said to ned, pardon for disturbing your rest. i have been left a message. ned looked irritated. been left? by whom? has there been a rider? i was not told. there was no rider, my lord. only a carved wooden box, left on a table in my observatory while i napped. my servants saw no one, but it must have been brought by someone in the king's party. we have had no other visitors from the south. a wooden box, you say? catelyn said. inside was a fine new lens for the observatory, from myr by the look of it. the lenscrafters of myr are without equal. ned frowned. he had little patience for this sort of thing, catelyn knew. a lens, he said. what has that to do with me? i asked the same question, maester luwin said. clearly there was more to this than the seeming. under the heavy weight of her furs, catelyn shivered. a lens is an instrument to help us see. indeed it is. he fingered the collar of his order; a heavy chain worn tight around the neck beneath his robe, each link forged from a different metal. catelyn could feel dread stirring inside her once again. what is it that they would have us see more clearly? the very thing i asked myself. maester luwin drew a tightly rolled paper out of his sleeve. i found the true message concealed within a false bottom when i dismantled the box the lens had come in, but it is not for my eyes. ned held out his hand. let me have it, then. luwin did not stir. pardons, my lord. the message is not for you either. it is marked for the eyes of the lady catelyn, and her alone. may i approach? catelyn nodded, not trusting to speak. the maester placed the paper on the table beside the bed. it was sealed with a small blob of blue wax. luwin bowed and began to retreat. stay, ned commanded him. his voice was grave. he looked at catelyn. what is it? my lady, you're shaking. i'm afraid, she admitted. she reached out and took the letter in trembling hands. the furs dropped away from her nakedness, forgotten. in the blue wax was the moon-and-falcon seal of house arryn. it's from lysa. catelyn looked at her husband. it will not make us glad, she told him. there is grief in this message, ned. i can feel it. ned frowned, his face darkening. open it. catelyn broke the seal. her eyes moved over the words. at first they made no sense to her. then she remembered. lysa took no chances. when we were girls together, we had a private language, she and l can you read it? yes, catelyn admitted. then tell us. perhaps i should withdraw, maester luwin said. no, catelyn said. we will need your counsel. she threw back the furs and climbed from the bed. the night air was as cold as the grave on her bare skin as she padded across the room. maester luwin averted his eyes. even ned looked shocked. what are you doing? he asked. lighting a fire, catelyn told him. she found a dressing gown and shrugged into it, then knelt over the cold hearth. maester luwin- ned began. maester luwin has delivered all my children, catelyn said. this is no time for false modesty. she slid the paper in among the kindling and placed the heavier logs on top of it. ned crossed the room, took her by the arm, and pulled her to her feet. he held her there, his face inches from her. my lady, tell me! what was this message? catelyn stiffened in his grasp. a warning, she said softly. if we have the wits to hear. his eyes searched her face. go on. lysa says jon arryn was murdered. his fingers tightened on her arm. by whom? the lannisters, she told him. the queen. ned released his hold on her arm. there were deep red marks on her skin. gods, he whispered. his voice was hoarse. your sister is sick with grief. she cannot know what she is saying. she knows, catelyn said. lysa is impulsive, yes, but this message was carefully planned, cleverly hidden. she knew it meant death if her letter fell into the wrong hands. to risk so much, she must have had more than mere suspicion. catelyn looked to her husband. now we truly have no choice. you must be robert's hand. you must go south with him and learn the truth. she saw at once that ned had reached a very different conclusion. the only truths i know are here. the south is a nest of adders i would do better to avoid. luwin plucked at his chain collar where it had chafed the soft skin of his throat. the hand of the king has great power, my lord. power to find the truth of lord arryn' s death, to bring his killers to the king's justice. power to protect lady arryn and her son, if the worst be true. ned glanced helplessly around the bedchamber. catelyn' s heart went out to him, but she knew she could not take him in her arms just then. first the victory must be won, for her children's sake. you say you love robert like a brother. would you leave your brother surrounded by lannisters? the others take both of you, ned muttered darkly. he turned away from them and went to the window. she did not speak, nor did the maester. they waited, quiet, while eddard stark said a silent farewell to the home he loved. when he turned away from the window at last, his voice was tired and full of melancholy, and moisture glittered faintly in the corners of his eyes. my father went south once, to answer the summons of a king. he never came home again. a different time, maester luwin said. a different king. yes, ned said dully. he seated himself in a chair by the hearth. catelyn, you shall stay here in winterfell. his words were like an icy draft through her heart. no, she said, suddenly afraid. was this to be her punishment? never to see his face again, nor to feel his arms around her? yes, ned said, in words that would brook no argument. you must govern the north in my stead, while i run robert's errands. there must always be a stark in winterfell. robb is fourteen. soon enough, he will be a man grown. he must learn to rule, and i will not be here for him. make him part of your councils. he must be ready when his time comes. gods will, not for many years, maester luwin murmured. maester luwin, i trust you as i would my own blood. give my wife your voice in all things great and small. teach my son the things he needs to know. winter is coming. maester luwin nodded gravely. then silence fell, until catelyn found her courage and asked the question whose answer she most dreaded. what of the other children? ned stood, and took her in his arms, and held her face close to his. rickon is very young, he said gently. he should stay here with you and robb. the others i would take with me. i could not bear it, catelyn said, trembling. you must, he said. sansa must wed joffrey, that is clear now, we must give them no grounds to suspect our devotion. and it is past time that arya learned the ways of a southron court. in a few years she will be of an age to marry too. sansa would shine in the south, catelyn thought to herself, and the gods knew that arya needed refinement. reluctantly, she let go of them in her heart. but not bran. never bran. yes, she said, but please, ned, for the love you bear me, let bran remain here at winterfell. he is only seven. i was eight when my father sent me to foster at the eyrie, ned said. ser rodrik tells me there is bad feeling between robb and prince joffrey. that is not healthy. bran can bridge that distance. he is a sweet boy, quick to laugh, easy to love. let him grow up with the young princes, let him become their friend as robert became mine. our house will be the safer for it. he was right; catelyn knew it. it did not make the pain any easier to bear. she would lose all four of them, then: ned, and both girls, and her sweet, loving bran. only robb and little rickon would be left to her. she felt lonely already. winterfell was such a vast place. keep him off the walls, then, she said bravely. you know how bran loves to climb. ned kissed the tears from her eyes before they could fall. thank you, my lady, he whispered. this is hard, i know. what of jon snow, my lord? maester luwin asked. catelyn tensed at the mention of the name. ned felt the anger in her, and pulled away. many men fathered bastards. catelyn had grown up with that knowledge. it came as no surprise to her, in the first year of her marriage, to learn that ned had fathered a child on some girl chance met on campaign. he had a man's needs, after all, and they had spent that year apart, ned off at war in the south while she remained safe in her father's castle at riverrun. her thoughts were more of robb, the infant at her breast, than of the husband she scarcely knew. he was welcome to whatever solace he might find between battles. and if his seed quickened, she expected he would see to the child's needs. he did more than that. the starks were not like other men. ned brought his bastard home with him, and called him son for all the north to see. when the wars were over at last, and catelyn rode to winterfell, jon and his wet nurse had already taken up residence. that cut deep. ned would not speak of the mother, not so much as a word, but a castle has no secrets, and catelyn heard her maids repeating tales they heard from the lips of her husband's soldiers. they whispered of ser arthur dayne, the sword of the morning, deadliest of the seven knights of aerys's kingsguard, and of how their young lord had slain him in single combat. and they told how afterward ned had carried ser arthur's sword back to the beautiful young sister who awaited him in a castle called starfall on the shores of the summer sea. the lady ashara dayne, tall and fair, with haunting violet eyes. it had taken her a fortnight to marshal her courage, but finally, in bed one night, catelyn had asked her husband the truth of it, asked him to his face. that was the only time in all their years that ned had ever frightened her. never ask me about jon, he said, cold as ice. he is my blood, and that is all you need to know. and now i will learn where you heard that name, my lady. she had pledged to obey; she told him; and from that day on, the whispering had stopped, and ashara dayne's name was never heard in winterfell again. whoever jon's mother had been, ned must have loved her fiercely, for nothing catelyn said would persuade him to send the boy away. it was the one thing she could never forgive him. she had come to love her husband with all her heart, but she had never found it in her to love jon. she might have overlooked a dozen bastards for ned's sake, so long as they were out of sight. jon was never out of sight, and as he grew, he looked more like ned than any of the trueborn sons she bore him. somehow that made it worse. jon must go, she said now. he and robb are close, ned said. i had hoped... he cannot stay here, catelyn said, cutting him off. he is your son, not mine. i will not have him. it was hard, she knew, but no less the truth. ned would do the boy no kindness by leaving him here at winterfell. the look ned gave her was anguished. you know i cannot take him south. there will be no place for him at court. a boy with a bastard's name... you know what they will say of him. he will be shunned. catelyn armored her heart against the mute appeal in her husband's eyes. they say your friend robert has fathered a dozen bastards himself. and none of them has ever been seen at court! ned blazed. the lannister woman has seen to that. how can you be so damnably cruel, catelyn? he is only a boy. he- his fury was on him. he might have said more, and worse, but maester luwin cut in. another solution presents itself, he said, his voice quiet. your brother benjen came to me about jon a few days ago. it seems the boy aspires to take the black. ned looked shocked. he asked to join the night's watch? catelyn said nothing. let ned work it out in his own mind; her voice would not be welcome now. yet gladly would she have kissed the maester just then. his was the perfect solution. benjen stark was a sworn brother. jon would be a son to him, the child he would never have. and in time the boy would take the oath as well. he would father no sons who might someday contest with catelyn' s own grandchildren for winterfell. maester luwin said, there is great honor in service on the wall, my lord. and even a bastard may rise high in the night's watch, ned reflected. still, his voice was troubled. jon is so young. if he asked this when he was a man grown, that would be one thing, but a boy of fourteen... a hard sacrifice, maester luwin agreed. yet these are hard times, my lord. his road is no crueler than yours or your lady's. catelyn thought of the three children she must lose. it was not easy keeping silent then. ned turned away from them to gaze out the window, his long face silent and thoughtful. finally he sighed, and turned back. very well, he said to maester luwin. i suppose it is for the best. i will speak to ben. when shall we tell jon? the maester asked. when i must. preparations must be made. it will be a fortnight before we are ready to depart. i would sooner let jon enjoy these last few days. summer will end soon enough, and childhood as well. when the time comes, i will tell him myself. ned and the girls were eight days gone when maester luwin came to her one night in bran's sickroom, carrying a reading lamp and the books of account. it is past time that we reviewed the figures, my lady, he said. you'll want to know how much this royal visit cost us. catelyn looked at bran in his sickbed and brushed his hair back off his forehead. it had grown very long, she realized. she would have to cut it soon. i have no need to look at figures, maester luwin, she told him, never taking her eyes from bran. i know what the visit cost us. take the books away. my lady, the king's party had healthy appetites. we must replenish our stores before- she cut him off. i said, take the books away. the steward will attend to our needs. we have no steward, maester luwin reminded her. like a little grey rat, she thought, he would not let go. poole went south to establish lord eddard's household at king's landing. catelyn nodded absently. oh, yes. i remember. bran looked so pale. she wondered whether they might move his bed under the window, so he could get the morning sun. maester luwin set the lamp in a niche by the door and fiddled with its wick. there are several appointments that require your immediate attention, my lady. besides the steward, we need a captain of the guards to fill jory's place, a new master of horse- her eyes snapped around and found him. a master of horse? her voice was a whip. the maester was shaken. yes, my lady. hullen rode south with lord eddard, so- my son lies here broken and dying, luwin, and you wish to discuss a new master of horse? do you think i care what happens in the stables? do you think it matters to me one whit? i would gladly butcher every horse in winterfell with my own hands if it would open bran's eyes, do you understand that? do you? he bowed his head. yes, my lady, but the appointments- i'll make the appointments, robb said. catelyn had not heard him enter, but there he stood in the doorway, looking at her. she had been shouting, she realized with a sudden flush of shame. what was happening to her? she was so tired, and her head hurt all the time. maester luwin looked from catelyn to her son. i have prepared a list of those we might wish to consider for the vacant offices, he said, offering robb a paper plucked from his sleeve. her son glanced at the names. he had come from outside, catelyn saw; his cheeks were red from the cold, his hair shaggy and windblown. good men, he said. we'll talk about them tomorrow. he handed back the list of names. very good, my lord. the paper vanished into his sleeve. leave us now, robb said. maester luwin bowed and departed. robb closed the door behind him and turned to her. he was wearing a sword, she saw. mother, what are you doing? catelyn had always thought robb looked like her; like bran and rickon and sansa, he had the tully coloring, the auburn hair, the blue eyes. yet now for the first time she saw something of eddard stark in his face, something as stern and hard as the north. what am i doing? she echoed, puzzled. how can you ask that? what do you imagine i'm doing? i am taking care of your brother. i am taking care of bran. is that what you call it? you haven't left this room since bran was hurt. you didn't even come to the gate when father and the girls went south. i said my farewells to them here, and watched them ride out from that window. she had begged ned not to go, not now, not after what had happened; everything had changed now, couldn't he see that? it was no use. he had no choice, he had told her, and then he left, choosing. i can't leave him, even for a moment, not when any moment could be his last. i have to be with him, if... if. she took her son's limp hand, sliding his fingers through her own. he was so frail and thin, with no strength left in his hand, but she could still feel the warmth of life through his skin. robb's voice softened. he's not going to die, mother. maester luwin says the time of greatest danger has passed. and what if maester luwin is wrong? what if bran needs me and i'm not here? rickon needs you, robb said sharply. he's only three, he doesn't understand what's happening. he thinks everyone has deserted him, so he follows me around all day, clutching my leg and crying. i don't know what to do with him. he paused a moment, chewing on his lower lip the way he'd done when he was little. mother, i need you too. i'm trying but i can't... i can't do it all by myself. his voice broke with sudden emotion, and catelyn remembered that he was only fourteen. she wanted to get up and go to him, but bran was still holding her hand and she could not move. outside the tower, a wolf began to howl. catelyn trembled, just for a second. bran's. robb opened the window and let the night air into the stuffy tower room. the howling grew louder. it was a cold and lonely sound, full of melancholy and despair. don't, she told him. bran needs to stay warm. he needs to hear them sing, robb said. somewhere out in winterfell, a second wolf began to howl in chorus with the first. then a third, closer. shaggydog and grey wind, robb said as their voices rose and fell together. you can tell them apart if you listen close. catelyn was shaking. it was the grief, the cold, the howling of the direwolves. night after night, the howling and the cold wind and the grey empty castle, on and on they went, never changing, and her boy lying there broken, the sweetest of her children, the gentlest, bran who loved to laugh and climb and dreamt of knighthood, all gone now, she would never hear him laugh again. sobbing, she pulled her hand free of his and covered her ears against those terrible howls. make them stop! she cried. i can't stand it, make them stop, make them stop, kill them all if you must, just make them stop! she didn't remember falling to the floor, but there she was, and robb was lifting her, holding her in strong arms. don't be afraid, mother. they would never hurt him. he helped her to her narrow bed in the corner of the sickroom. close your eyes, he said gently. rest. maester luwin tells me you've hardly slept since bran's fall. i can't, she wept. gods forgive me, robb, i can't, what if he dies while i'm asleep, what if he dies, what if he dies... the wolves were still howling. she screamed and held her ears again. oh, gods, close the window! if you swear to me you'll sleep. robb went to the window, but as he reached for the shutters another sound was added to the mournful howling of the direwolves. dogs, he said, listening. all the dogs are barking. they've never done that before... catelyn heard his breath catch in his throat. when she looked up, his face was pale in the lamplight. fire, he whispered. fire, she thought, and then, bran! help me, she said urgently, sitting up. help me with bran. robb did not seem to hear her. the library tower's on fire, he said. catelyn could see the flickering reddish light through the open window now. she sagged with relief. bran was safe. the library was across the bailey, there was no way the fire would reach them here. thank the gods, she whispered. robb looked at her as if she'd gone mad. mother, stay here. i'll come back as soon as the fire's out. he ran then. she heard him shout to the guards outside the room, heard them descending together in a wild rush, taking the stairs two and three at a time. outside, there were shouts of fire! in the yard, screams, running footsteps, the whinny of frightened horses, and the frantic barking of the castle dogs. the howling was gone, she realized as she listened to the cacophony. the direwolves had fallen silent. catelyn said a silent prayer of thanks to the seven faces of god as she went to the window. across the bailey, long tongues of flame shot from the windows of the library. she watched the smoke rise into the sky and thought sadly of all the books the starks had gathered over the centuries. then she closed the shutters. when she turned away from the window, the man was in the room with her. you weren't s'posed to be here, he muttered sourly. no one was s'posed to be here. he was a small, dirty man in filthy brown clothing, and he stank of horses. catelyn knew all the men who worked in their stables, and he was none of them. he was gaunt, with limp blond hair and pale eyes deep-sunk in a bony face, and there was a dagger in his hand. catelyn looked at the knife, then at bran. no, she said. the word stuck in her throat, the merest whisper. he must have heard her. it's a mercy, he said. he's dead already. no, catelyn said, louder now as she found her voice again. no, you can't. she spun back toward the window to scream for help, but the man moved faster than she would have believed. one hand clamped down over her mouth and yanked back her head, the other brought the dagger up to her windpipe. the stench of him was overwhelming. she reached up with both hands and grabbed the blade with all her strength, pulling it away from her throat. she heard him cursing into her ear. her fingers were slippery with blood, but she would not let go of the dagger. the hand over her mouth clenched more tightly, shutting off her air. catelyn twisted her head to the side and managed to get a piece of his flesh between her teeth. she bit down hard into his palm. the man grunted in pain. she ground her teeth together and tore at him, and all of a sudden he let go. the taste of his blood filled her mouth. she sucked in air and screamed, and he grabbed her hair and pulled her away from him, and she stumbled and went down, and then he was standing over her, breathing hard, shaking. the dagger was still clutched tightly in his right hand, slick with blood. you weren't s'posed to be here, he repeated stupidly. catelyn saw the shadow slip through the open door behind him. there was a low rumble, less than a snarl, the merest whisper of a threat, but he must have heard something, because he started to turn just as the wolf made its leap. they went down together, half sprawled over catelyn where she'd fallen. the wolf had him under the jaw. the man's shriek lasted less than a second before the beast wrenched back its head, taking out half his throat. his blood felt like warm rain as it sprayed across her face. the wolf was looking at her. its jaws were red and wet and its eyes glowed golden in the dark room. it was bran's wolf, she realized. of course it was. thank you, catelyn whispered, her voice faint and tiny. she lifted her hand, trembling. the wolf padded closer, sniffed at her fingers, then licked at the blood with a wet rough tongue. when it had cleaned all the blood off her hand, it turned away silently and jumped up on bran's bed and lay down beside him. catelyn began to laugh hysterically. that was the way they found them, when robb and maester luwin and ser rodrik burst in with half the guards in winterfell. when the laughter finally died in her throat, they wrapped her in warm blankets and led her back to the great keep, to her own chambers. old nan undressed her and helped her into a scalding hot bath and washed the blood off her with a soft cloth. afterward maester luwin arrived to dress her wounds. the cuts in her fingers went deep, almost to the bone, and her scalp was raw and bleeding where he'd pulled out a handful of hair. the maester told her the pain was just starting now, and gave her milk of the poppy to help her sleep. finally she closed her eyes. when she opened them again, they told her that she had slept four days. catelyn nodded and sat up in bed. it all seemed like a nightmare to her now, everything since bran's fall, a terrible dream of blood and grief, but she had the pain in her hands to remind her that it was real. she felt weak and light-headed, yet strangely resolute, as if a great weight had lifted from her. bring me some bread and honey, she told her servants, and take word to maester luwin that my bandages want changing. they looked at her in surprise and ran to do her bidding. catelyn remembered the way she had been before, and she was ashamed. she had let them all down, her children, her husband, her house. it would not happen again. she would show these northerners how strong a tully of riverrun could be. robb arrived before her food. rodrik cassel came with him, and her husband's ward theon greyjoy, and lastly hallis mollen, a muscular guardsman with a square brown beard. he was the new captain of the guard, robb said. her son was dressed in boiled leather and ringmail, she saw, and a sword hung at his waist. who was he? catelyn asked them. no one knows his name, hallis mollen told her. he was no man of winterfell, m'lady, but some says they seen him here and about the castle these past few weeks. one of the king's men, then, she said, or one of the lannisters'. he could have waited behind when the others left. maybe, hal said. with all these strangers filling up winterfell of late, there's no way of saying who he belonged to. he'd been biding in your stables, greyjoy said. you could smell it on him. and how could he go unnoticed? she said sharply. hallis mollen looked abashed. between the horses lord eddard took south and them we sent north to the night's watch, the stalls were half-empty. it were no great trick to hide from the stableboys. could be hodor saw him, the talk is that boy's been acting queer, but simple as he is... hal shook his head. we found where he'd been sleeping, robb put in. he had ninety silver stags in a leather bag buried beneath the straw. it's good to know my son's life was not sold cheaply, catelyn said bitterly. hallis mollen looked at her, confused. begging your grace, m'lady, you saying he was out to kill your boy? greyjoy was doubtful. that's madness. he came for bran, catelyn said. he kept muttering how i wasn't supposed to be there. he set the library fire thinking i would rush to put it out, taking any guards with me. if i hadn't been half- mad with grief, it would have worked. why would anyone want to kill bran? robb said. gods, he's only a little boy, helpless, sleeping... catelyn gave her firstborn a challenging look. if you are to rule in the north, you must think these things through, robb. answer your own question. why would anyone want to kill a sleeping child? before he could answer, the servants returned with a plate of food fresh from the kitchen. there was much more than she'd asked for: hot bread, butter and honey and blackberry preserves, a rasher of bacon and a soft-boiled egg, a wedge of cheese, a pot of mint tea. and with it came maester luwin. how is my son, maester? catelyn looked at all the food and found she had no appetite. maester luwin lowered his eyes. unchanged, my lady. it was the reply she had expected, no more and no less. her hands throbbed with pain, as if the blade were still in her, cutting deep. she sent the servants away and looked back to robb. do you have the answer yet? someone is afraid bran might wake up, robb said, afraid of what he might say or do, afraid of something he knows. catelyn was proud of him. very good. she turned to the new captain of the guard. we must keep bran safe. if there was one killer, there could be others. how many guards do you want, m'lady? hal asked. so long as lord eddard is away, my son is the master of winterfell, she told him. robb stood a little taller. put one man in the sickroom, night and day, one outside the door, two at the bottom of the stairs. no one sees bran without my warrant or my mother's. as you say, m'lord. do it now, catelyn suggested. and let his wolf stay in the room with him, robb added. yes, catelyn said. and then again: yes. hallis mollen bowed and left the room. lady stark, ser rodrik said when the guardsman had gone, did you chance to notice the dagger the killer used? the circumstances did not allow me to examine it closely, but i can vouch for its edge, catelyn replied with a dry smile. why do you ask? we found the knife still in the villain's grasp. it seemed to me that it was altogether too fine a weapon for such a man, so i looked at it long and hard. the blade is valyrian steel, the hilt dragonbone. a weapon like that has no business being in the hands of such as him. someone gave it to him. catelyn nodded, thoughtful. robb, close the door. he looked at her strangely, but did as she told him. what i am about to tell you must not leave this room, she told them. i want your oaths on that. if even part of what i suspect is true, ned and my girls have ridden into deadly danger, and a word in the wrong ears could mean their lives. lord eddard is a second father to me, said theon greyjoy. i do so swear. you have my oath, maester luwin said. and mine, my lady, echoed ser rodrik. she looked at her son. and you, robb? he nodded his consent. my sister lysa believes the lannisters murdered her husband, lord arryn, the hand of the king, catelyn told them. it comes to me that jaime lannister did not join the hunt the day bran fell. he remained here in the castle. the room was deathly quiet. i do not think bran fell from that tower, she said into the stillness. i think he was thrown. the shock was plain on their faces. my lady, that is a monstrous suggestion, said rodrik cassel. even the kingslayer would flinch at the murder of an innocent child. oh, would he? theon greyjoy asked. i wonder. there is no limit to lannister pride or lannister ambition, catelyn said. the boy had always been surehanded in the past, maester luwin said thoughtfully. he knew every stone in winterfell. gods, robb swore, his young face dark with anger. if this is true, he will pay for it. he drew his sword and waved it in the air. i'll kill him myself! ser rodrik bristled at him. put that away! the lannisters are a hundred leagues away. never draw your sword unless you mean to use it. how many times must i tell you, foolish boy? abashed, robb sheathed his sword, suddenly a child again. catelyn said to ser rodrik, i see my son is wearing steel now. the old master-at-arms said, i thought it was time. robb was looking at her anxiously. past time, she said. winterfell may have need of all its swords soon, and they had best not be made of wood. theon greyjoy put a hand on the hilt of his blade and said, my lady, if it comes to that, my house owes yours a great debt. maester luwin pulled at his chain collar where it chafed against his neck. all we have is conjecture. this is the queen's beloved brother we mean to accuse. she will not take it kindly. we must have proof, or forever keep silent. your proof is in the dagger, ser rodrik said. a fine blade like that will not have gone unnoticed. there was only one place to find the truth of it, catelyn realized. someone must go to king's landing. i'll go, robb said. no, she told him. your place is here. there must always be a stark in winterfell. she looked at ser rodrik with his great white whiskers, at maester luwin in his grey robes, at young greyjoy, lean and dark and impetuous. who to send? who would be believed? then she knew. catelyn struggled to push back the blankets, her bandaged fingers as stiff and unyielding as stone. she climbed out of bed. i must go myself. my lady, said maester luwin, is that wise? surely the lannisters would greet your arrival with suspicion. what about bran? robb asked. the poor boy looked utterly confused now. you can't mean to leave him. i have done everything i can for bran, she said, laying a wounded hand on his arm. his life is in the hands of the gods and maester luwin. as you reminded me yourself, robb, i have other children to think of now. you will need a strong escort, my lady, theon said. i'll send hal with a squad of guardsmen, robb said. no, catelyn said. a large party attracts unwelcome attention. i would not have the lannisters know i am coming. ser rodrik protested. my lady, let me accompany you at least. the kingsroad can be perilous for a woman alone. i will not be taking the kingsroad, catelyn replied. she thought for a moment, then nodded her consent. two riders can move as fast as one, and a good deal faster than a long column burdened by wagons and wheelhouses. i will welcome your company, ser rodrik. we will follow the white knife down to the sea, and hire a ship at white harbor. strong horses and brisk winds should bring us to king's landing well ahead of ned and the lannisters. and then, she thought, we shall see what we shall see. we will make king's landing within the hour. catelyn turned away from the rail and forced herself to smile. your oarmen have done well by us, captain. each one of them shall have a silver stag, as a token of my gratitude. captain moreo turnitis favored her with a half bow. you are far too generous, lady stark. the honor of carrying a great lady like yourself is all the reward they need. but they'll take the silver anyway. moreo smiled. as you say. he spoke the common tongue fluently, with only the slightest hint of a tyroshi accent. he'd been plying the narrow sea for thirty years, he'd told her, as oarman, quartermaster, and finally captain of his own trading galleys. the storm dancer was his fourth ship, and his fastest, a two-masted galley of sixty oars. she had certainly been the fastest of the ships available in white harbor when catelyn and ser rodrik cassel had arrived after their headlong gallop downriver. the tyroshi were notorious for their avarice, and ser rodrik had argued for hiring a fishing sloop out of the three sisters, but catelyn had insisted on the galley. it was good that she had. the winds had been against them much of the voyage, and without the galley's oars they'd still be beating their way past the fingers, instead of skimming toward king's landing and journey's end. so close, she thought. beneath the linen bandages, her fingers still throbbed where the dagger had bitten. the pain was her scourge, catelyn felt, lest she forget. she could not bend the last two fingers on her left hand, and the others would never again be dexterous. yet that was a small enough price to pay for bran's life. ser rodrik chose that moment to appear on deck. my good friend, said moreo through his forked green beard. the tyroshi loved bright colors, even in their facial hair. it is so fine to see you looking better. yes, ser rodrik agreed. i haven't wanted to die for almost two days now. he bowed to catelyn. my lady. he was looking better. a shade thinner than he had been when they set out from white harbor, but almost himself again. the strong winds in the bite and the roughness of the narrow sea had not agreed with him, and he'd almost gone over the side when the storm seized them unexpectedly off dragonstone, yet somehow he had clung to a rope until three of moreo's men could rescue him and carry him safely below decks. the captain was just telling me that our voyage is almost at an end, she said. ser rodrik managed a wry smile. so soon? he looked odd without his great white side whiskers; smaller somehow, less fierce, and ten years older. yet back on the bite it had seemed prudent to submit to a crewman's razor, after his whiskers had become hopelessly befouled for the third time while he leaned over the rail and retched into the swirling winds. i will leave you to discuss your business, captain moreo said. he bowed and took his leave of them. the galley skimmed the water like a dragonfly, her oars rising and falling in perfect time. ser rodrik held the rail and looked out over the passing shore. i have not been the most valiant of protectors. catelyn touched his arm. we are here, ser rodrik, and safely. that is all that truly matters. her hand groped beneath her cloak, her fingers stiff and fumbling. the dagger was still at her side. she found she had to touch it now and then, to reassure herself. now we must reach the king's master-at-arms, and pray that he can be trusted. ser aron santagar is a vain man, but an honest one. ser rodrik's hand went to his face to stroke his whiskers and discovered once again that they were gone. he looked nonplussed. he may know the blade, yes... but, my lady, the moment we go ashore we are at risk. and there are those at court who will know you on sight. catelyn's mouth grew tight. littlefinger, she murmured. his face swam up before her; a boy's face, though he was a boy no longer. his father had died several years before, so he was lord baelish now, yet still they called him littlefinger. her brother edmure had given him that name, long ago at riverrun. his family's modest holdings were on the smallest of the fingers, and petyr had been slight and short for his age. ser rodrik cleared his throat. lord baelish once, ah his thought trailed off uncertainly in search of the polite word. catelyn was past delicacy. he was my father's ward. we grew up together in riverrun. i thought of him as a brother, but his feelings for me were... more than brotherly. when it was announced that i was to wed brandon stark, petyr challenged for the right to my hand. it was madness. brandon was twenty, petyr scarcely fifteen. i had to beg brandon to spare petyr' s life. he let him off with a scar. afterward my father sent him away. i have not seen him since. she lifted her face to the spray, as if the brisk wind could blow the memories away. he wrote to me at riverrun after brandon was killed, but i burned the letter unread. by then i knew that ned would marry me in his brother's place. ser rodrik's fingers fumbled once again for nonexistent whiskers. littlefinger sits on the small council now. i knew he would rise high, catelyn said. he was always clever, even as a boy, but it is one thing to be clever and another to be wise. i wonder what the years have done to him. high overhead, the far-eyes sang out from the rigging. captain moreo came scrambling across the deck, giving orders, and all around them the storm dancer burst into frenetic activity as king's landing slid into view atop its three high hills. three hundred years ago, catelyn knew, those heights had been covered with forest, and only a handful of fisherfolk had lived on the north shore of the blackwater rush where that deep, swift river flowed into the sea. then aegon the conqueror had sailed from dragonstone. it was here that his army had put ashore, and there on the highest hill that he built his first crude redoubt of wood and earth. now the city covered the shore as far as catelyn could see; manses and arbors and granaries, brick storehouses and timbered inns and merchant's stalls, taverns and graveyards and brothels, all piled one on another. she could hear the clamor of the fish market even at this distance. between the buildings were broad roads lined with trees, wandering crookback streets, and alleys so narrow that two men could not walk abreast. visenya's hill was crowned by the great sept of baelor with its seven crystal towers. across the city on the hill of rhaenys stood the blackened walls of the dragonpit, its huge dome collapsing into ruin, its bronze doors closed now for a century. the street of the sisters ran between them, straight as an arrow. the city walls rose in the distance, high and strong. a hundred quays lined the waterfront, and the harbor was crowded with ships. deepwater fishing boats and river runners came and went, ferrymen poled back and forth across the blackwater rush, trading galleys unloaded goods from braavos and pentos and lys. catelyn spied the queen's ornate barge, tied up beside a fat-bellied whaler from the port of ibben, its hull black with tar, while upriver a dozen lean golden warships rested in their cribs, sails furled and cruel iron rams lapping at the water. and above it all, frowning down from aegon's high hill, was the red keep; seven huge drum- towers crowned with iron ramparts, an immense grim barbican, vaulted halls and covered bridges, barracks and dungeons and granaries, massive curtain walls studded with archers' nests, all fashioned of pale red stone. aegon the conqueror had commanded it built. his son maegor the cruel had seen it completed. afterward he had taken the heads of every stonemason, woodworker, and builder who had labored on it. only the blood of the dragon would ever know the secrets of the fortress the dragonlords had built, he vowed. yet now the banners that flew from its battlements were golden, not black, and where the three- headed dragon had once breathed fire, now pranced the crowned stag of house baratheon. a high-masted swan ship from the summer isles was beating out from port, its white sails huge with wind. the storm dancer moved past it, pulling steadily for shore. my lady, ser rodrik said, i have thought on how best to proceed while i lay abed. you must not enter the castle. i will go in your stead and bring ser aron to you in some safe place. she studied the old knight as the galley drew near to a pier. moreo was shouting in the vulgar valyrian of the free cities.'you would be as much at risk as i would. ser rodrik smiled. i think not. i looked at my reflection in the water earlier and scarcely recognized myself. my mother was the last person to see me without whiskers, and she is forty years dead. i believe i am safe enough, my lady. moreo bellowed a command. as one, sixty oars lifted from the river, then reversed and backed water. the galley slowed. another shout. the oars slid back inside the hull. as they thumped against the dock, tyroshi seamen leapt down to tie up. moreo came bustling up, all smiles. king's landing, my lady, as you did command, and never has a ship made a swifter or surer passage. will you be needing assistance to carry your things to the castle? we shall not be going to the castle. perhaps you can suggest an inn, someplace clean and comfortable and not too far from the river. the tyroshi fingered his forked green beard. just so. i know of several establishments that might suit your needs. yet first, if i may be so bold, there is the matter of the second half of the payment we agreed upon. and of course the extra silver you were so kind as to promise. sixty stags, i believe it was. for the oarmen, catelyn reminded him. oh, of a certainty, said moreo. though perhaps i should hold it for them until we return to tyrosh. for the sake of their wives and children. if you give them the silver here, my lady, they will dice it away or spend it all for a night's pleasure. there are worse things to spend money on, ser rodrik put in. winter is coming. a man must make his own choices, catelyn said. they earned the silver. how they spend it is no concern of mine. as you say, my lady, moreo replied, bowing and smiling. just to be sure, catelyn paid the oarmen herself, a stag to each man, and a copper to the two men who carried their chests halfway up visenya's hill to the inn that moreo had suggested. it was a rambling old place on eel alley. the woman who owned it was a sour crone with a wandering eye who looked them over suspiciously and bit the coin that catelyn offered her to make sure it was real. her rooms were large and airy, though, and moreo swore that her fish stew was the most savory in all the seven kingdoms. best of all, she had no interest in their names. i think it best if you stay away from the common room, ser rodrik said, after they had settled in. even in a place like this, one never knows who may be watching. he wore ringmail, dagger, and longsword under a dark cloak with a hood he could pull up over his head. i will be back before nightfall, with ser aron, he promised. rest now, my lady. catelyn was tired. the voyage had been long and fatiguing, and she was no longer as young as she had been. her windows opened on the alley and rooftops, with a view of the blackwater beyond. she watched ser rodrik set off, striding briskly through the busy streets until he was lost in the crowds, then decided to take his advice. the bedding was stuffed with straw instead of feathers, but she had no trouble falling asleep. she woke to a pounding on her door. catelyn sat up sharply. outside the window, the rooftops of king's landing were red in the light of the setting sun. she had slept longer than she intended. a fist hammered at her door again, and a voice called out, open, in the name of the king. a moment, she called out. she wrapped herself in her cloak. the dagger was on the bedside table. she snatched it up before she unlatched the heavy wooden door. the men who pushed into the room wore the black ringmail and golden cloaks of the city watch. their leader smiled at the dagger in her hand and said, no need for that, m'lady. we're to escort you to the castle. by whose authority? she said. he showed her a ribbon. catelyn felt her breath catch in her throat. the seal was a mockingbird, in grey wax. petyr, she said. so soon. something must have happened to ser rodrik. she looked at the head guardsman. do you know who i am? no, m'lady, he said. m'lord little finger said only to bring you to him, and see that you were not mistreated. catelyn nodded. you may wait outside while i dress. she bathed her hands in the basin and wrapped them in clean linen. her fingers were thick and awkward as she struggled to lace up her bodice and knot a drab brown cloak about her neck. how could littlefinger have known she was here? ser rodrik would never have told him. old he might be, but he was stubborn, and loyal to a fault. were they too late, had the lannisters reached king's landing before her? no, if that were true, ned would be here too, and surely he would have come to her. how... ? then she thought, moreo. the tyroshi knew who they were and where they were, damn him. she hoped he'd gotten a good price for the information. they had brought a horse for her. the lamps were being lit along the streets as they set out, and catelyn felt the eyes of the city on her as she rode, surrounded by the guard in their golden cloaks. when they reached the red keep, the portcullis was down and the great gates sealed for the night, but the castle windows were alive with flickering lights. the guardsmen left their mounts outside the walls and escorted her through a narrow postern door, then up endless steps to a tower. he was alone in the room, seated at a heavy wooden table, an oil lamp beside him as he wrote. when they ushered her inside, he set down his pen and looked at her. cat, he said quietly. why have i been brought here in this fashion? he rose and gestured brusquely to the guards. leave us. the men departed. you were not mistreated, i trust, he said after they had gone. i gave firm instructions. he noticed her bandages. your hands... catelyn ignored the implied question. i am not accustomed to being summoned like a serving wench, she said icily. as a boy, you still knew the meaning of courtesy. i've angered you, my lady. that was never my intent. he looked contrite. the look brought back vivid memories for catelyn. he had been a sly child, but after his mischiefs he always looked contrite; it was a gift he had. the years had not changed him much. petyr had been a small boy, and he had grown into a small man, an inch or two shorter than catelyn, slender and quick, with the sharp features she remembered and the same laughing grey-green eyes. he had a little pointed chin beard now, and threads of silver in his dark hair, though he was still shy of thirty. they went well with the silver mockingbird that fastened his cloak. even as a child, he had always loved his silver. how did you know i was in the city? she asked him. lord varys knows all, petyr said with a sly smile. he will be joining us shortly, but i wanted to see you alone first. it has been too long, cat. how many years? catelyn ignored his familiarity. there were more important questions. so it was the king's spider who found me. littlefinger winced. you don't want to call him that. he's very sensitive. comes of being an eunuch, i imagine. nothing happens in this city without varys knowing. oftimes he knows about it before it happens. he has informants everywhere. his little birds, he calls them. one of his little birds heard about your visit. thankfully, varys came to me first. why you? he shrugged. why not me? i am master of coin, the king's own councillor. selmy and lord renly rode north to meet robert, and lord stannis is gone to dragonstone, leaving only maester pycelle and me. i was the obvious choice. i was ever a friend to your sister lysa, varys knows that. does varys know about lord varys knows everything... except why you are here. he lifted an eyebrow. why are you here? a wife is allowed to yearn for her husband, and if a mother needs her daughters close, who can tell her no? littlefinger laughed. oh, very good, my lady, but please don't expect me to believe that. i know you too well. what were the tully words again? her throat was dry. family, duty, honor, she recited stiffly. he did know her too well. family, duty, honor, he echoed. all of which required you to remain in winterfell, where our hand left you. no, my lady, something has happened. this sudden trip of yours bespeaks a certain urgency. i beg of you, let me help. old sweet friends should never hesitate to rely upon each other. there was a soft knock on the door. enter, littlefinger called out. the man who stepped through the door was plump, perfumed, powdered, and as hairless as an egg. he wore a vest of woven gold thread over a loose gown of purple silk, and on his feet were pointed slippers of soft velvet. lady stark, he said, taking her hand in both of his, to see you again after so many years is such a joy. his flesh was soft and moist, and his breath smelled of lilacs. oh, your poor hands. have you burned yourself, sweet lady? the fingers are so delicate... our good maester pycelle makes a marvelous salve, shall i send for ajar? catelyn slid her fingers from his grasp. i thank you, my lord, but my own maester luwin has already seen to my hurts. varys bobbed his head. i was grievous sad to hear about your son. and him so young. the gods are cruel. on that we agree, lord varys, she said. the title was but a courtesy due him as a council member; varys was lord of nothing but the spiderweb, the master of none but his whisperers. the eunuch spread his soft hands. on more than that, i hope, sweet lady. i have great esteem for your husband, our new hand, and i know we do both love king robert. yes, she was forced to say. for a certainty. never has a king been so beloved as our robert, quipped littlefinger. he smiled slyly. at least in lord varys's hearing. good lady, varys said with great solicitude. there are men in the free cities with wondrous healing powers. say only the word, and i will send for one for your dear bran. maester luwin is doing all that can be done for bran, she told him. she would not speak of bran, not here, not with these men. she trusted littlefinger only a little, and varys not at all. she would not let them see her grief. lord baelish tells me that i have you to thank for bringing me here. varys giggled like a little girl. oh, yes. i suppose i am guilty. i hope you forgive me, kind lady. he eased himself down into a seat and put his hands together. i wonder if we might trouble you to show us the dagger? catelyn stark stared at the eunuch in stunned disbelief. he was a spider, she thought wildly, an enchanter or worse. he knew things no one could possibly know, unless what have you done to ser rodrik? she demanded. littlefinger was lost. i feel rather like the knight who arrives at the battle without his lance. what dagger are we talking about? who is ser rodrik? ser rodrik cassel is master-at-arms at winterfell, varys informed him. i assure you, lady stark, nothing at all has been done to the good knight. he did call here early this afternoon. he visited with ser aron santagar in the armory, and they talked of a certain dagger. about sunset, they left the castle together and walked to that dreadful hovel where you were staying. they are still there, drinking in the common room, waiting for your return. ser rodrik was very distressed to find you gone. how could you know all that? the whisperings of little birds, varys said, smiling. i know things, sweet lady. that is the nature of my service. he shrugged. you do have the dagger with you, yes? catelyn pulled it out from beneath her cloak and threw it down on the table in front of him. here. perhaps your little birds will whisper the name of the man it belongs to. varys lifted the knife with exaggerated delicacy and ran a thumb along its edge. blood welled, and he let out a squeal and dropped the dagger back on the table. careful, catelyn told him, it's sharp. nothing holds an edge like valyrian steel, littlefinger said as varys sucked at his bleeding thumb and looked at catelyn with sullen admonition. littlefinger hefted the knife lightly in his hand, testing the grip. he flipped it in the air, caught it again with his other hand. such sweet balance. you want to find the owner, is that the reason for this visit? you have no need of ser aron for that, my lady. you should have come to me. and if i had, she said, what would you have told me? i would have told you that there was only one knife like this at king's landing. he grasped the blade between thumb and forefinger, drew it back over his shoulder, and threw it across the room with a practiced flick of his wrist. it struck the door and buried itself deep in the oak, quivering. it's mine. yours? it made no sense. petyr had not been at winterfell. until the tourney on prince joffrey's name day, he said, crossing the room to wrench the dagger from the wood. i backed ser jaime in the jousting, along with half the court. petyr's sheepish grin made him look half a boy again. when loras tyrell unhorsed him, many of us became a trifle poorer. ser jaime lost a hundred golden dragons, the queen lost an emerald pendant, and i lost my knife. her grace got the emerald back, but the winner kept the rest. who? catelyn demanded, her mouth dry with fear. her fingers ached with remembered pain. the imp, said little finger as lord varys watched her face. tyrion lannister. my lady, you ought cover your head, ser rodrik told her as their horses plodded north. you will take a chill. it is only water, ser rodrik, catelyn replied. her hair hung wet and heavy, a loose strand stuck to her forehead, and she could imagine how ragged and wild she must look, but for once she did not care. the southern rain was soft and warm. catelyn liked the feel of it on her face, gentle as a mother's kisses. it took her back to her childhood, to long grey days at riverrun. she remembered the godswood, drooping branches heavy with moisture, and the sound of her brother's laughter as he chased her through piles of damp leaves. she remembered making mud pies with lysa, the weight of them, the mud slick and brown between her fingers. they had served them to little finger, giggling, and he'd eaten so much mud he was sick for a week. how young they all had been. catelyn had almost forgotten. in the north, the rain fell cold and hard, and sometimes at night it turned to ice. it was as likely to kill a crop as nurture it, and it sent grown men running for the nearest shelter. that was no rain for little girls to play in. i am soaked through, ser rodrik complained. even my bones are wet. the woods pressed close around them, and the steady pattering of rain on leaves was accompanied by the small sucking sounds their horses made as their hooves pulled free of the mud. we will want a fire tonight, my lady, and a hot meal would serve us both. there is an inn at the crossroads up ahead, catelyn told him. she had slept many a night there in her youth, traveling with her father. lord hoster tully had been a restless man in his prime, always riding somewhere. she still remembered the innkeep, a fat woman named masha heddle who chewed sourleaf night and day and seemed to have an endless supply of smiles and sweet cakes for the children. the sweet cakes had been soaked with honey, rich and heavy on the tongue, but how catelyn had dreaded those smiles. the sourleaf had stained masha's teeth a dark red, and made her smile a bloody horror. an inn, ser rodrik repeated wistfully. if only... but we dare not risk it. if we wish to remain unknown, i think it best we seek out some small holdfast... he broke off as they heard sounds up the road; splashing water, the clink of mail, a horse's whinny. riders, he warned, his hand dropping to the hilt of his sword. even on the kingsroad, it never hurt to be wary. they followed the sounds around a lazy bend of the road and saw them; a column of armed men noisily fording a swollen stream. catelyn reined up to let them pass. the banner in the hand of the foremost rider hung sodden and limp, but the guardsmen wore indigo cloaks and on their shoulders flew the silver eagle of seagard. mallisters, ser rodrik whispered to her, as if she had not known. my lady, best pull up your hood. catelyn made no move. lord jason mallister himself rode with them, surrounded by his knights, his son patrek by his side and their squires close behind. they were riding for king's landing and the hand's tourney, she knew. for the past week, the travelers had been thick as flies upon the kingsroad; knights and freeriders, singers with their harps and drums, heavy wagons laden with hops or corn or casks of honey, traders and craftsmen and whores, and all of them moving south. she studied lord jason boldly. the last time she had seen him he had been jesting with her uncle at her wedding feast; the mallisters stood bannermen to the tullys, and his gifts had been lavish. his brown hair was salted with white now, his face chiseled gaunt by time, yet the years had not touched his pride. he rode like a man who feared nothing. catelyn envied him that; she had come to fear so much. as the riders passed, lord jason nodded a curt greeting, but it was only a high lord's courtesy to strangers chance met on the road. there was no recognition in those fierce eyes, and his son did not even waste a look. he did not know you, ser rodrik said after, wondering. he saw a pair of mud-spattered travelers by the side of the road, wet and tired. it would never occur to him to suspect that one of them was the daughter of his liege lord. i think we shall be safe enough at the inn, ser rodrik. it was near dark when they reached it, at the crossroads north of the great confluence of the trident. masha heddle was fatter and greyer than catelyn remembered, still chewing her sourleaf, but she gave them only the most cursory of looks, with nary a hint of her ghastly red smile. two rooms at the top of the stair, that's all there is, she said, chewing all the while. they're under the bell tower, you won't be missing meals, though there's some thinks it too noisy. can't be helped. we're full up, or near as makes no matter. it's those rooms or the road. it was those rooms, low, dusty garrets at the top of a cramped narrow staircase. leave your boots down here, masha told them after she'd taken their coin. the boy will clean them. i won't have you tracking mud up my stairs. mind the bell. those who come late to meals don't eat. there were no smiles, and no mention of sweet cakes. when the supper bell rang, the sound was deafening. catelyn had changed into dry clothes. she sat by the window, watching rain run down the pane. the glass was milky and full of bubbles, and a wet dusk was falling outside. catelyn could just make out the muddy crossing where the two great roads met. the crossroads gave her pause. if they turned west from here, it was an easy ride down to riverrun. her father had always given her wise counsel when she needed it most, and she yearned to talk to him, to warn him of the gathering storm. if winterfell needed to brace for war, how much more so riverrun, so much closer to king's landing, with the power of casterly rock looming to the west like a shadow. if only her father had been stronger, she might have chanced it, but hoster tully had been bedridden these past two years, and catelyn was loath to tax him now. the eastern road was wilder and more dangerous, climbing through rocky foothills and thick forests into the mountains of the moon, past high passes and deep chasms to the vale of arryn and the stony fingers beyond. above the vale, the eyrie stood high and impregnable, its towers reaching for the sky. there she would find her sister... and, perhaps, some of the answers ned sought. surely lysa knew more than she had dared to put in her letter. she might have the very proof that ned needed to bring the lannisters to ruin, and if it came to war, they would need the arryns and the eastern lords who owed them service. yet the mountain road was perilous. shadowcats prowled those passes, rock slides were common, and the mountain clans were lawless brigands, descending from the heights to rob and kill and melting away like snow whenever the knights rode out from the vale in search of them. even jon arryn, as great a lord as any the eyrie had ever known, had always traveled in strength when he crossed the mountains. catelyn's only strength was one elderly knight, armored in loyalty. no, she thought, riverrun and the eyrie would have to wait. her path ran north to winterfell, where her sons and her duty were waiting for her. as soon as they were safely past the neck, she could declare herself to one of ned's bannermen, and send riders racing ahead with orders to mount a watch on the kingsroad. the rain obscured the fields beyond the crossroads, but catelyn saw the land clear enough in her memory. the marketplace was just across the way, and the village a mile farther on, half a hundred white cottages surrounding a small stone sept. there would be more now; the summer had been long and peaceful. north of here the kingsroad ran along the green fork of the trident, through fertile valleys and green woodlands, past thriving towns and stout holdfasts and the castles of the river lords. catelyn knew them all: the blackwoods and the brackens, ever enemies, whose quarrels her father was obliged to settle; lady whent, last of her line, who dwelt with her ghosts in the cavernous vaults of harrenhal; irascible lord frey, who had outlived seven wives and filled his twin castles with children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren, and bastards and grandbastards as well. all of them were bannermen to the tullys, their swords sworn to the service of riverrun. catelyn wondered if that would be enough, if it came to war. her father was the staunchest man who'd ever lived, and she had no doubt that he would call his banners... but would the banners come? the darrys and rygers and mootons had sworn oaths to riverrun as well, yet they had fought with rhaegar targaryen on the trident, while lord frey had arrived with his levies well after the battle was over, leaving some doubt as to which army he had planned to join (theirs, he had assured the victors solemnly in the aftermath, but ever after her father had called him the late lord frey). it must not come to war, catelyn thought fervently. they must not let it. ser rodrik came for her just as the bell ceased its clangor. we had best make haste if we hope to eat tonight, my lady. it might be safer if we were not knight and lady until we pass the neck, she told him. common travelers attract less notice. a father and daughter taken to the road on some family business, say. as you say, my lady, ser rodrik agreed. it was only when she laughed that he realized what he'd done. the old courtesies die hard, my-my daughter. he tried to tug on his missing whiskers, and sighed with exasperation. catelyn took his arm. come, father, she said. you'll find that masha heddle sets a good table, i think, but try not to praise her. you truly don't want to see her smile. the common room was long and drafty, with a row of huge wooden kegs at one end and a fireplace at the other. a serving boy ran back and forth with skewers of meat while masha drew beer from the kegs, chewing her sour leaf all the while. the benches were crowded, townsfolk and farmers mingling freely with all manner of travelers. the crossroads made for odd companions; dyers with black and purple hands shared a bench with rivermen reeking offish, an ironsmith thick with muscle squeezed in beside a wizened old septon, hard-bitten sellswords and soft plump merchants swapped news like boon companions. the company included more swords than catelyn would have liked. three by the fire wore the red stallion badge of the brackens, and there was a large party in blue steel ringmail and capes of a silvery grey. on their shoulder was another familiar sigil, the twin towers of house frey. she studied their faces, but they were all too young to have known her. the senior among them would have been no older than bran when she went north. ser rodrik found them an empty place on the bench near the kitchen. across the table a handsome youth was fingering a woodharp. seven blessings to you, goodfolk, he said as they sat. an empty wine cup stood on the table before him. and to you, singer, catelyn returned. ser rodrik called for bread and meat and beer in a tone that meant now. the singer, a youth of some eighteen years, eyed them boldly and asked where they were going, and from whence they had come, and what news they had, letting the questions fly as quick as arrows and never pausing for an answer. we left king's landing a fortnight ago, catelyn replied, answering the safest of his questions. that's where i'm bound, the youth said. as she had suspected, he was more interested in telling his own story than in hearing theirs. singers loved nothing half so well as the sound of their own voices. the hand's tourney means rich lords with fat purses. the last time i came away with more silver than i could carry... or would have, if i hadn't lost it all betting on the kingslayer to win the day. the gods frown on the gambler, ser rodrik said sternly. he was of the north, and shared the stark views on tournaments. they frowned on me, for certain, the singer said. your cruel gods and the knight of flowers altogether did me in. no doubt that was a lesson for you, ser rodrik said. it was. this time my coin will champion ser loras. ser rodrik tried to tug at whiskers that were not there, but before he could frame a rebuke the serving boy came scurrying up. he laid trenchers of bread before them and filled them with chunks of browned meat off a skewer, dripping with hot juice. another skewer held tiny onions, fire peppers, and fat mushrooms. ser rodrik set to lustily as the lad ran back to fetch them beer. my name is marillion, the singer said, plucking a string on his woodharp. doubtless you've heard me play somewhere? his manner made catelyn smile. few wandering singers ever ventured as far north as winterfell, but she knew his like from her girlhood in riverrun. i fear not, she told him. he drew a plaintive chord from the woodharp. that is your loss, he said. who was the finest singer you've ever heard? alia of braavos, ser rodrik answered at once. oh, i'm much better than that old stick, marillion said. if you have the silver for a song, i'll gladly show you. i might have a copper or two, but i'd sooner toss it down a well than pay for your howling, ser rodrik groused. his opinion of singers was well known; music was a lovely thing for girls, but he could not comprehend why any healthy boy would fill his hand with a harp when he might have had a sword. your grandfather has a sour nature, marillion said to catelyn. i meant to do you honor. an homage to your beauty. in truth, i was made to sing for kings and high lords. oh, i can see that, catelyn said. lord tully is fond of song, i hear. no doubt you've been to riverrun. a hundred times, the singer said airily. they keep a chamber for me, and the young lord is like a brother. catelyn smiled, wondering what edmure would think of that. another singer had once bedded a girl her brother fancied; he had hated the breed ever since. and winterfell? she asked him. have you traveled north? why would i? marillion asked. it's all blizzards and bearskins up there, and the starks know no music but the howling of wolves. distantly, she was aware of the door banging open at the far end of the room. innkeep, a servant's voice called out behind her, we have horses that want stabling, and my lord of lannister requires a room and a hot bath. oh, gods, ser rodrik said before catelyn reached out to silence him, her fingers tightening hard around his forearm. masha heddle was bowing and smiling her hideous red smile. i'm sorry, m'lord, truly, we're full up, every room. there were four of them, catelyn saw. an old man in the black of the night's watch, two servants... and him, standing there small and bold as life. my men will steep in your stable, and as for myself, well, i do not require a large room, as you can plainly see. he flashed a mocking grin. so long as the fire's warm and the straw reasonably free of fleas, i am a happy man. masha heddle was beside herself. m'lord, there's nothing, it's the tourney, there's no help for it, oh... tyrion lannister pulled a coin from his purse and flicked it up over his head, caught it, tossed it again. even across the room, where catelyn sat, the wink of gold was unmistakable. a freerider in a faded blue cloak lurched to his feet. you're welcome to my room, m'lord. now there's a clever man, lannister said as he sent the coin spinning across the room. the freerider snatched it from the air. and a nimble one to boot. the dwarf turned back to masha heddle. you will be able to manage food, i trust? anything you like, m'lord, anything at all, the innkeep promised. and may he choke on it, catelyn thought, but it was bran she saw choking, drowning on his own blood. lannister glanced at the nearest tables. my men will have whatever you're serving these people. double portions, we've had a long hard ride. i'll take a roast fowl-chicken, duck, pigeon, it makes no matter. and send up a flagon of your best wine. yoren, will you sup with me? aye, m'lord, i will, the black brother replied. the dwarf had not so much as glanced toward the far end of the room, and catelyn was thinking how grateful she was for the crowded benches between them when suddenly marillion bounded to his feet. my lord of lannister! he called out. i would be pleased to entertain you while you eat. let me sing you the lay of your father's great victory at king's landing! nothing would be more likely to ruin my supper, the dwarf said dryly. his mismatched eyes considered the singer briefly, started to move away... and found catelyn. he looked at her for a moment, puzzled. she turned her face away, but too late. the dwarf was smiling. lady stark, what an unexpected pleasure, he said. i was sorry to miss you at winterfell. marillion gaped at her, confusion giving way to chagrin as catelyn rose slowly to her feet. she heard ser rodrik curse. if only the man had lingered at the wall, she thought, if only... lady... stark? masha heddle said thickly. i was still catelyn tully the last time i bedded here, she told the innkeep. she could hear the muttering, feel the eyes upon her. catelyn glanced around the room, at the faces of the knights and sworn swords, and took a deep breath to slow the frantic beating of her heart. did she dare take the risk? there was no time to think it through, only the moment and the sound of her own voice ringing in her ears. you in the corner, she said to an older man she had not noticed until now. is that the black bat of harrenhal i see embroidered on your surcoat, ser? the man got to his feet. it is, my lady. and is lady whent a true and honest friend to my father, lord hoster tully of riverrun? she is, the man replied stoutly. ser rodrik rose quietly and loosened his sword in its scabbard. the dwarf was blinking at them, blank- faced, with puzzlement in his mismatched eyes. the red stallion was ever a welcome sight in riverrun, she said to the trio by the fire. my father counts jonos bracken among his oldest and most loyal bannermen. the three men-at-arms exchanged uncertain looks. our lord is honored by his trust, one of them said hesitantly. i envy your father all these fine friends, lannister quipped, but i do not quite see the purpose of this, lady stark. she ignored him, turning to the large party in blue and grey. they were the heart of the matter; there were more than twenty of them. i know your sigil as well: the twin towers of frey. how fares your good lord, sers? their captain rose. lord walder is well, my lady. he plans to take a new wife on his ninetieth name day, and has asked your lord father to honor the wedding with his presence. tyrion lannister sniggered. that was when catelyn knew he was hers. this man came a guest into my house, and there conspired to murder my son, a boy of seven, she proclaimed to the room at large, pointing. ser rodrik moved to her side, his sword in hand. in the name of king robert and the good lords you serve, i call upon you to seize him and help me return him to winterfell to await the king's justice. she did not know what was more satisfying: the sound of a dozen swords drawn as one or the look on tyrion lannister's face. my lady, you should have sent word of your coming, ser donnel waynwood told her as their horses climbed the pass. we would have sent an escort. the high road is not as safe as it once was, for a party as small as yours. we learned that to our sorrow, ser donnel, catelyn said. sometimes she felt as though her heart had turned to stone; six brave men had died to bring her this far, and she could not even find it in her to weep for them. even their names were fading. the clansmen harried us day and night. we lost three men in the first attack, and two more in the second, and lannister's serving man died of a fever when his wounds festered. when we heard your men approaching, i thought us doomed for certain. they had drawn up for a last desperate fight, blades in hand and backs to the rock. the dwarf had been whetting the edge of his axe and making some mordant jest when bronn spotted the banner the riders carried before them, the moon-and- falcon of house arryn, sky-blue and white. catelyn had never seen a more welcome sight. the clans have grown bolder since lord jon died, ser donnel said. he was a stocky youth of twenty years, earnest and homely, with a wide nose and a shock of thick brown hair. if it were up to me, i would take a hundred men into the mountains, root them out of their fastnesses, and teach them some sharp lessons, but your sister has forbidden it. she would not even permit her knights to fight in the hand's tourney. she wants all our swords kept close to home, to defend the vale... against what, no one is certain. shadows, some say. he looked at her anxiously, as if he had suddenly remembered who she was. i hope i have not spoken out of turn, my lady. i meant no offense. frank talk does not offend me, ser donnel. catelyn knew what her sister feared. not shadows, lannisters, she thought to herself, glancing back to where the dwarf rode beside bronn. the two of them had grown thick as thieves since chiggen had died. the little man was more cunning than she liked. when they had entered the mountains, he had been her captive, bound and helpless. what was he now? her captive still, yet he rode along with a dirk through his belt and an axe strapped to his saddle, wearing the shadowskin cloak he'd won dicing with the singer and the chainmail hauberk he'd taken off chiggen's corpse. two score men flanked the dwarf and the rest of her ragged band, knights and men-at-arms in service to her sister lysa and jon arryn's young son, and yet tyrion betrayed no hint of fear. could i be wrong? catelyn wondered, not for the first time. could he be innocent after all, of bran and jon arryn and all the rest? and if he was, what did that make her? six men had died to bring him here. resolute, she pushed her doubts away. when we reach your keep, i would take it kindly if you could send for maester colemon at once. ser rodrik is feverish from his wounds. more than once she had feared the gallant old knight would not survive the journey. toward the end he could scarcely sit his horse, and bronn had urged her to leave him to his fate, but catelyn would not hear of it. they had tied him in the saddle instead, and she had commanded marillion the singer to watch over him. ser donnel hesitated before he answered. the lady lysa has commanded the maester to remain at the eyrie at all times, to care for lord robert, he said. we have a septon at the gate who tends to our wounded. he can see to your man's hurts. catelyn had more faith in a maester's learning than a septon's prayers. she was about to say as much when she saw the battlements ahead, long parapets built into the very stone of the mountains on either side of them. where the pass shrank to a narrow defile scarce wide enough for four men to ride abreast, twin watchtowers clung to the rocky slopes, joined by a covered bridge of weathered grey stone that arched above the road. silent faces watched from arrow slits in tower, battlements, and bridge. when they had climbed almost to the top, a knight rode out to meet them. his horse and his armor were grey, but his cloak was the rippling blue-and-red of riverrun, and a shiny black fish, wrought in gold and obsidian, pinned its folds against his shoulder. who would pass the bloody gate? he called. ser donnel waynwood, with the lady catelyn stark and her companions, the young knight answered. the knight of the gate lifted his visor. i thought the lady looked familiar. you are far from home, little cat. and you, uncle, she said, smiling despite all she had been through. hearing that hoarse, smoky voice again took her back twenty years, to the days of her childhood. my home is at my back, he said gruffly. your home is in my heart, catelyn told him. take off your helm. i would look on your face again. the years have not improved it, i fear, brynden tully said, but when he lifted off the helm, catelyn saw that he lied. his features were lined and weathered, and time had stolen the auburn from his hair and left him only grey, but the smile was the same, and the bushy eyebrows fat as caterpillars, and the laughter in his deep blue eyes. did lysa know you were coming? there was no time to send word ahead, catelyn told him. the others were coming up behind her. i fear we ride before the storm, uncle. may we enter the vale? ser donnel asked. the waynwoods were ever ones for ceremony. in the name of robert arryn, lord of the eyrie, defender of the vale, true warden of the east, i bid you enter freely, and charge you to keep his peace, ser brynden replied. come. and so she rode behind him, beneath the shadow of the bloody gate where a dozen armies had dashed themselves to pieces in the age of heroes. on the far side of the stoneworks, the mountains opened up suddenly upon a vista of green fields, blue sky, and snowcapped mountains that took her breath away. the vale of arryn bathed in the morning light. it stretched before them to the misty cast, a tranquil land of rich black soil, wide slow-moving rivers, and hundreds of small lakes that shone like mirrors in the sun, protected on all sides by its sheltering peaks. wheat and corn and barley grew high in its fields, and even in highgarden the pumpkins were no larger nor the fruit any sweeter than here. they stood at the western end of the valley, where the high road crested the last pass and began its winding descent to the bottomlands two miles below. the vale was narrow here, no more than a half day's ride across, and the northern mountains seemed so close that catelyn could almost reach out and touch them. looming over them all was the jagged peak called the giant's lance, a mountain that even mountains looked up to, its head lost in icy mists three and a half miles above the valley floor. over its massive western shoulder flowed the ghost torrent of alyssa's tears. even from this distance, catelyn could make out the shining silver thread, bright against the dark stone. when her uncle saw that she had stopped, he moved his horse closer and pointed. it's there, beside alyssa's tears. all you can see from here is a flash of white every now and then, if you look hard and the sun hits the walls just right. seven towers, ned had told her, like white daggers thrust into the belly of the sky, so high you can stand on the parapets and look down on the clouds. how long a ride? she asked. we can be at the mountain by evenfall, uncle brynden said, but the climb will take another day. ser rodrik cassel spoke up from behind. my lady, he said, i fear i can go no farther today. his face sagged beneath his ragged, newgrown whiskers, and he looked so weary catelyn feared he might fall off his horse. nor should you, she said. you have done all i could have asked of you, and a hundred times more. my uncle will see me the rest of the way to the eyrie. lannister must come with me, but there is no reason that you and the others should not rest here and recover your strength. we should be honored to have them to guest, ser donnel said with the grave courtesy of the young. beside ser rodrik, only bronn, ser willis wode, and marillion the singer remained of the party that had ridden with her from the inn by the crossroads. my lady, marillion said, riding forward. i beg you allow me to accompany you to the eyrie, to see the end of the tale as i saw its beginnings. the boy sounded haggard, yet strangely determined; he had a fevered shine to his eyes. catelyn had never asked the singer to ride with them; that choice he had made himself, and how he had come to survive the journey when so many braver men lay dead and unburied behind them, she could never say. yet here he was, with a scruff of beard that made him look almost a man. perhaps she owed him something for having come this far. very well, she told him. i'll come as well, bronn announced. she liked that less well. without bronn she would never have reached the vale, she knew; the sellsword was as fierce a fighter as she had ever seen, and his sword had helped cut them through to safety. yet for all that, catelyn misliked the man. courage he had, and strength, but there was no kindness in him, and little loyalty. and she had seen him riding beside lannister far too often, talking in low voices and laughing at some private joke. she would have preferred to separate him from the dwarf here and now, but having agreed that marillion might continue to the eyrie, she could see no gracious way to deny that same right to bronn. as you wish, she said, although she noted that he had not actually asked her permission. ser willis wode remained with ser rodrik, a soft-spoken septon fussing over their wounds. their horses were left behind as well, poor ragged things. ser donnel promised to send birds ahead to the eyrie and the gates of the moon with the word of their coming. fresh mounts were brought forth from the stables, surefooted mountain stock with shaggy coats, and within the hour they set forth once again. catelyn rode beside her uncle as they began the descent to the valley floor. behind came bronn, tyrion lannister, marillion, and six of brynden's men. not until they were a third of the way down the mountain path, well out of earshot of the others, did brynden tully turn to her and say, so, child. tell me about this storm of yours. i have not been a child in many years, uncle, catelyn said, but she told him nonetheless. it took longer than she would have believed to tell it all, lysa's letter and bran's fall, the assassin's dagger and littlefinger and her chance meeting with tyrion lannister in the crossroadsinn. her uncle listened silently, heavy brows shadowing his eyes as his frown grew deeper. brynden tully had always known how to listen... to anyone but her father. he was lord hoster's brother, younger by five years, but the two of them had been at war as far back as catelyn could remember. during one of their louder quarrels, when catelyn was eight, lord hoster had called brynden the black goat of the tully flock. laughing, brynden had pointed out that the sigil of their house was a leaping trout, so he ought to be a black fish rather than a black goat, and from that day forward he had taken it as his personal emblem. the war had not ended until the day she and lysa had been wed. it was at their wedding feast that brynden told his brother he was leaving riverrun to serve lysa and her new husband, the lord of the eyrie. lord hoster had not spoken his brother's name since, from what edmure told her in his infrequent letters. nonetheless, during all those years of catelyn' s girlhood, it had been brynden the blackfish to whom lord hoster's children had run with their tears and their tales, when father was too busy and mother too ill. catelyn, lysa, edmure... and yes, even petyr baelish, their father's ward... he had listened to them all patiently, as he listened now, laughing at their triumphs and sympathizing with their childish misfortunes. when she was done, her uncle remained silent for a long time, as his horse negotiated the steep, rocky trail. your father must be told, he said at last. if the lannisters should march, winterfell is remote and the vale walled up behind its mountains, but riverrun lies right in their path. i'd had the same fear, catelyn admitted. i shall ask maester colemon to send a bird when we reach the eyrie. she had other messages to send as well; the commands that ned had given her for his bannermen, to ready the defenses of the north. what is the mood in the vale? she asked. angry, brynden tully admitted. lord jon was much loved, and the insult was keenly felt when the king named jaime lannister to an office the arryns had held for near three hundred years. lysa has commanded us to call her son the true warden of the east, but no one is fooled. nor is your sister alone in wondering at the manner of the hand's death. none dare say jon was murdered, not openly, but suspicion casts a long shadow. he gave catelyn a look, his mouth tight. and there is the boy. the boy? what of him? she ducked her head as they passed under a low overhang of rock, and around a sharp turn. her uncle's voice was troubled. lord robert, he sighed. six years old, sickly, and prone to weep if you take his dolls away. jon arryn's trueborn heir, by all the gods, yet there are some who say he is too weak to sit his father's seat, nestor royce has been high steward these past fourteen years, while lord jon served in king's landing, and many whisper that he should rule until the boy comes of age. others believe that lysa must marry again, and soon. already the suitors gather like crows on a battlefield. the eyrie is full of them. i might have expected that, catelyn said. small wonder there; lysa was still young, and the kingdom of mountain and vale made a handsome wedding gift. will lysa take another husband? she says yes, provided she finds a man who suits her, brynden tully said, but she has already rejected lord nestor and a dozen other suitable men. she swears that this time she will choose her lord husband. you of all people can scarce fault her for that. ser brynden snorted. nor do i, but... it seems to me lysa is only playing at courtship. she enjoys the sport, but i believe your sister intends to rule herself until her boy is old enough to be lord of the eyrie in truth as well as name. a woman can rule as wisely as a man, catelyn said. the tight woman can, her uncle said with a sideways glance. make no mistake, cat. lysa is not you. he hesitated a moment. if truth be told, i fear you may not find your sister as helpful as you would like. she was puzzled. what do you mean? the lysa who came back from king's landing is not the same girl who went south when her husband was named hand. those years were hard for her. you must know. lord arryn was a dutiful husband, but their marriage was made from politics, not passion. as was my own. they began the same, but your ending has been happier than your sister's. two babes stillborn, twice as many miscarriages, lord arryn's death... catelyn, the gods gave lysa only the one child, and he is all your sister lives for now, poor boy. small wonder she fled rather than see him handed over to the lannisters. your sister is afraid, child, and the lannisters are what she fears most. she ran to the vale, stealing away from the red keep like a thief in the night, and all to snatch her son out of the lion's mouth... and now you have brought the lion to her door. in chains, catelyn said. a crevasse yawned on her right, falling away into darkness. she reined up her horse and picked her way along step by careful step. oh? her uncle glanced back, to where tyrion lannister was making his slow descent behind them. i see an axe on his saddle, a dirk at his belt, and a sellsword that trails after him like a hungry shadow. where are the chains, sweet one? catelyn shifted uneasily in her seat. the dwarf is here, and not by choice. chains or no, he is my prisoner. lysa will want him to answer for his crimes no less than i. it was her own lord husband the lannisters murdered, and her own letter that first warned us against them. brynden blackfish gave her a weary smile. i hope you are right, child, he sighed, in tones that said she was wrong. the sun was well to the west by the time the slope began to flatten beneath the hooves of their horses. the road widened and grew straight, and for the first time catelyn noticed wildflowers and grasses growing. once they reached the valley floor, the going was faster and they made good time, cantering through verdant greenwoods and sleepy little hamlets, past orchards and golden wheat fields, splashing across a dozen sunlit streams. her uncle sent a standard-bearer ahead of them, a double banner flying from his staff; the moon-and- falcon of house arryn on high, and below it his own black fish. farm wagons and merchants' carts and riders from lesser houses moved aside to let them pass. even so, it was full dark before they reached the stout castle that stood at the foot of the giant's lance. torches flickered atop its ramparts, and the horned moon danced upon the dark waters of its moat. the drawbridge was up and the portcullis down, but catelyn saw lights burning in the gatehouse and spilling from the windows of the square towers beyond. the gates of the moon, her uncle said as the party drew rein. his standard-bearer rode to the edge of the moat to hail the men in the gatehouse. lord nestor's seat. he should be expecting us. look up. catelyn raised her eyes, up and up and up. at first all she saw was stone and trees, the looming mass of the great mountain shrouded in night, as black as a starless sky. then she noticed the glow of distant fires well above them; a tower keep, built upon the steep side of the mountain, its lights like orange eyes staring down from above. above that was another, higher and more distant, and still higher a third, no more than a flickering spark in the sky. and finally, up where the falcons soared, a flash of white in the moonlight. vertigo washed over her as she stared upward at the pale towers, so far above. the eyrie, she heard marillion murmur, awed. the sharp voice of tyrion lannister broke in. the arryns must not be overfond of company. if you're planning to make us climb that mountain in the dark, i'd rather you kill me here. we'll spend the night here and make the ascent on the morrow, brynden told him. i can scarcely wait, the dwarf replied. how do we get up there? i've no experience at riding goats. mules, brynden said, smiling. there are steps carved into the mountain, catelyn said. ned had told her about them when he talked of his youth here with robert baratheon and jon arryn. her uncle nodded. it is too dark to see them, but the steps are there. too steep and narrow for horses, but mules can manage them most of the way. the path is guarded by three waycastles, stone and snow and sky. the mules will take us as far up as sky. tyrion lannister glanced up doubtfully. and beyond that? brynden smiled. beyond that, the path is too steep even for mules. we ascend on foot the rest of the way. or perchance you'd prefer to ride a basket. the eyrie clings to the mountain directly above sky, and in its cellars are six great winches with long iron chains to draw supplies up from below. if you prefer, my lord of lannister, i can arrange for you to ride up with the bread and beer and apples. the dwarf gave a bark of laughter. would that i were a pumpkin, he said. alas, my lord father would no doubt be most chagrined if his son of lannister went to his fate like a load of turnips. if you ascend on foot, i fear i must do the same. we lannisters do have a certain pride. pride? catelyn snapped. his mocking tone and easy manner made her angry. arrogance, some might call it. arrogance and avarice and lust for power. my brother is undoubtedly arrogant, tyrion lannister replied. my father is the soul of avarice, and my sweet sister cersei lusts for power with every waking breath. i, however, am innocent as a little lamb. shall i bleat for you? he grinned. the drawbridge came creaking down before she could reply, and they heard the sound of oiled chains as the portcullis was drawn up. men-at-arms carried burning brands out to light their way, and her uncle led them across the moat. lord nestor royce, high steward of the vale and keeper of the gates of the moon, was waiting in the yard to greet them, surrounded by his knights. lady stark, he said, bowing. he was a massive, barrel-chested man, and his bow was clumsy. catelyn dismounted to stand before him. lord nestor, she said. she knew the man only by reputation; bronze yohn's cousin, from a lesser branch of house royce, yet still a formidable lord in his own right. we have had a long and tiring journey. i would beg the hospitality of your roof tonight, if i might. my roof is yours, my lady, lord nestor returned gruffly, but your sister the lady lysa has sent down word from the eyrie. she wishes to see you at once. the rest of your party will be housed here and sent up at first light. her uncle swung off his horse. what madness is this? he said bluntly. brynden tully had never been a man to blunt the edge of his words. a night ascent, with the moon not even full? even lysa should know that's an invitation to a broken neck. the mules know the way, ser brynden. a wiry girl of seventeen or eighteen years stepped up beside lord nestor. her dark hair was cropped short and straight around her head, and she wore riding leathers and a light shirt of silvered ringmail. she bowed to catelyn, more gracefully than her lord. i promise you, my lady, no harm will come to you. it would be my honor to take you up. i've made the dark climb a hundred times. mychel says my father must have been a goat. she sounded so cocky that catelyn had to smile. do you have a name, child? mya stone, if it please you, my lady, the girl said. it did not please her; it was an effort for catelyn to keep the smile on her face. stone was a bastard's name in the vale, as snow was in the north, and flowers in highgarden; in each of the seven kingdoms, custom had fashioned a surname for children born with no names of their own. catelyn had nothing against this girl, but suddenly she could not help but think of ned's bastard on the wall, and the thought made her angry and guilty, both at once. she struggled to find words for a reply. lord nestor filled the silence. mya's a clever girl, and if she vows she will bring you safely to the lady lysa, i believe her. she has not failed me yet. then i put myself in your hands, mya stone, catelyn said. lord nestor, i charge you to keep a close guard on my prisoner. and i charge you to bring the prisoner a cup of wine and a nicely crisped capon, before he dies of hunger, lannister said. a girl would be pleasant as well, but i suppose that's too much to ask of you. the sellsword bronn laughed aloud. lord nestor ignored the banter. as you say, my lady, so it will be done. only then did he look at the dwarf. see our lord of lannister to a tower cell, and bring him meat and mead. catelyn took her leave of her uncle and the others as tyrion lannister was led off, then followed the bastard girl through the castle. two mules were waiting in the upper bailey, saddled and ready. mya helped her mount one while a guardsman in a sky-blue cloak opened the narrow postern gate. beyond was dense forest of pine and spruce, and the mountain like a black wall, but the steps were there, chiseled deep into the rock, ascending into the sky. some people find it easier if they close their eyes, mya said as she led the mules through the gate into the dark wood. when they get frightened or dizzy, sometimes they hold on to the mule too tight. they don't like that. i was born a tully and wed to a stark, catelyn said. i do not frighten easily. do you plan to light a torch? the steps were black as pitch. the girl made a face. torches just blind you. on a clear night like this, the moon and the stars are enough. mychel says i have the eyes of the owl. she mounted and urged her mule up the first step. catelyn's animal followed of its own accord. you mentioned mychel before, catelyn said. the mules set the pace, slow but steady. she was perfectly content with that. mychel's my love, mya explained. mychel redfort. he's squire to ser lyn corbray. we're to wed as soon as he becomes a knight, next year or the year after. she sounded so like sansa, so happy and innocent with her dreams. catelyn smiled, but the smile was tinged with sadness. the redforts were an old name in the vale, she knew, with the blood of the first men in their veins. his love she might be, but no redfort would ever wed a bastard. his family would arrange a more suitable match for him, to a corbray or a waynwood or a royce, or perhaps a daughter of some greater house outside the vale. if mychel redfort laid with this girl at all, it would be on the wrong side of the sheet. the ascent was easier than catelyn had dared hope. the trees pressed close, leaning over the path to make a rustling green roof that shut out even the moon, so it seemed as though they were moving up a long black tunnel. but the mules were surefooted and tireless, and mya stone did indeed seem blessed with night-eyes. they plodded upward, winding their way back and forth across the face of the mountain as the steps twisted and turned. a thick layer of fallen needles carpeted the path, so the shoes of their mules made only the softest sound on the rock. the quiet soothed her, and the gentle rocking motion set catelyn to swaying in her saddle. before long she was fighting sleep. perhaps she did doze for a moment, for suddenly a massive ironbound gate was looming before them. stone, mya announced cheerily, dismounting. iron spikes were set along the tops of formidable stone walls, and two fat round towers overtopped the keep. the gate swung open at mya's shout. inside, the portly knight who commanded the waycastle greeted mya by name and offered them skewers of charred meat and onions still hot from the spit. catelyn had not realized how hungry she was. she ate standing in the yard, as stablehands moved their saddles to fresh mules. the hot juices ran down her chin and dripped onto her cloak, but she was too famished to care. then it was up onto a new mule and out again into the starlight. the second part of the ascent seemed more treacherous to catelyn. the trail was steeper, the steps more worn, and here and there littered with pebbles and broken stone. mya had to dismount a half-dozen times to move fallen rocks from their path. you don't want your mule to break a leg up here, she said. catelyn was forced to agree. she could feel the altitude more now. the trees were sparser up here, and the wind blew more vigorously, sharp gusts that tugged at her clothing and pushed her hair into her eyes. from time to time the steps doubled back on themselves, and she could see stone below them, and the gates of the moon farther down, its torches no brighter than candles. snow was smaller than stone, a single fortified tower and a timber keep and stable hidden behind a low wall of unmortared rock. yet it nestled against the giant's lance in such a way as to command the entire stone stair above the lower waycastle. an enemy intent on the eyrie would have to fight his way from stone step by step, while rocks and arrows rained down from snow above. the commander, an anxious young knight with a pockmarked face, offered bread and cheese and the chance to warm themselves before his fire, but mya declined. we ought to keep going, my lady, she said. if it please you. catelyn nodded. again they were given fresh mules. hers was white. mya smiled when she saw him. whitey's a good one, my lady. sure of foot, even on ice, but you need to be careful. he'll kick if he doesn't like you. the white mule seemed to like catelyn; there was no kicking, thank the gods. there was no ice either, and she was grateful for that as well. my mother says that hundreds of years ago, this was where the snow began, mya told her. it was always white above here, and the ice never melted. she shrugged. i can't remember ever seeing snow this far down the mountain, but maybe it was that way once, in the olden times. so young, catelyn thought, trying to remember if she had ever been like that. the girl had lived half her life in summer, and that was all she knew. winter is coming, child, she wanted to tell her. the words were on her lips; she almost said them. perhaps she was becoming a stark at last. above snow, the wind was a living thing, howling around them like a wolf in the waste, then falling off to nothing as if to lure them into complacency. the stars seemed brighter up here, so close that she could almost touch them, and the horned moon was huge in the clear black sky. as they climbed, catelyn found it was better to look up than down. the steps were cracked and broken from centuries of freeze and thaw and the tread of countless mules, and even in the dark the heights put her heart in her throat. when they came to a high saddle between two spires of rock, mya dismounted. it's best to lead the mules over, she said. the wind can be a little scary here, my lady. catelyn climbed stiffly from the shadows and looked at the path ahead; twenty feet long and close to three feet wide, but with a precipitous drop to either side. she could hear the wind shrieking. mya stepped lightly out, her mule following as calmly as if they were crossing a bailey. it was her turn. yet no sooner had she taken her first step than fear caught catelyn in its jaws. she could feel the emptiness, the vast black gulfs of air that yawned around her. she stopped, trembling, afraid to move. the wind screamed at her and wrenched at her cloak, trying to pull her over the edge. catelyn edged her foot backward, the most timid of steps, but the mule was behind her, and she could not retreat. i am going to die here, she thought. she could feel cold sweat trickling down her back. lady stark, mya called across the gulf. the girl sounded a thousand leagues away. are you well? catelyn tully stark swallowed what remained of her pride. i... i cannot do this, child, she called out. yes you can, the bastard girl said. i know you can. look how wide the path is. i don't want to look. the world seemed to be spinning around her, mountain and sky and mules, whirling like a child's top. catelyn closed her eyes to steady her ragged breathing. i'll come back for you, mya said. don't move, my lady. moving was about the last thing catelyn was about to do. she listened to the skirling of the wind and the scuffling sound of leather on stone. then mya was there, taking her gently by the arm. keep your eyes closed if you like. let go of the rope now, whitey will take care of himself. very good, my lady. i'll lead you over, it's easy, you'll see. give me a step now. that's it, move your foot, just slide it forward. see. now another. easy. you could run across. another one, go on. yes. and so, foot by foot, step by step, the bastard girl led catelyn across, blind and trembling, while the white mule followed placidly behind them. the waycastle called sky was no more than a high, crescent-shaped wall of unmortared stone raised against the side of the mountain, but even the topless towers of valyria could not have looked more beautiful to catelyn stark. here at last the snow crown began; sky's weathered stones were rimed with frost, and long spears of ice hung from the slopes above. dawn was breaking in the east as mya stone hallooed for the guards, and the gates opened before them. inside the walls there was only a series of ramps and a great tumble of boulders and stones of all sizes. no doubt it would be the easiest thing in the world to begin an avalanche from here. a mouth yawned in the rock face in front of them. the stables and barracks are in there, mya said. the last part is inside the mountain. it can be a little dark, but at least you're out of the wind. this is as far as the mules can go. past here, well, it's a sort of chimney, more like a stone ladder than proper steps, but it's not too bad. another hour and we'll be there. catelyn looked up. directly overhead, pale in the dawn light, she could see the foundations of the eyrie. it could not be more than six hundred feet above them. from below it looked like a small white honeycomb. she remembered what her uncle had said of baskets and winches. the lannisters may have their pride, she told mya, but the tullys are born with better sense. i have ridden all day and the best part of a night. tell them to lower a basket. i shall ride with the turnips. the sun was well above the mountains by the time catelyn stark finally reached the eyrie. a stocky, silver-haired man in a sky-blue cloak and hammered moon-and-falcon breastplate helped her from the basket; ser vardis egen, captain of jon arryn's household guard. beside him stood maester colemon, thin and nervous, with too little hair and too much neck. lady stark, ser vardis said, the pleasure is as great as it is unanticipated. maester colemon bobbed his head in agreement. indeed it is, my lady, indeed it is. i have sent word to your sister. she left orders to be awakened the instant you arrived. i hope she had a good night's rest, catelyn said with a certain bite in her tone that seemed to go unnoticed. the men escorted her from the winch room up a spiral stair. the eyrie was a small castle by the standards of the great houses; seven slender white towers bunched as tightly as arrows in a quiver on a shoulder of the great mountain. it had no need of stables nor smithys nor kennels, but ned said its granary was as large as winterfell's, and its towers could house five hundred men. yet it seemed strangely deserted to catelyn as she passed through it, its pale stone halls echoing and empty. lysa was waiting alone in her solar, still clad in her bed robes. her long auburn hair tumbled unbound across bare white shoulders and down her back. a maid stood behind her, brushing out the night's tangles, but when catelyn entered, her sister rose to her feet, smiling. cat, she said. oh, cat, how good it is to see you. my sweet sister. she ran across the chamber and wrapped her sister in her arms. how long it has been, lysa murmured against her. oh, how very very long. it had been five years, in truth; five cruel years, for lysa. they had taken their toll. her sister was two years the younger, yet she looked older now. shorter than catelyn, lysa had grown thick of body, pale and puffy of face. she had the blue eyes of the tullys, but hers were pale and watery, never still. her small mouth had turned petulant. as catelyn held her, she remembered the slender, high-breasted girl who'd waited beside her that day in the sept at riverrun. how lovely and full of hope she had been. all that remained of her sister's beauty was the great fall of thick auburn hair that cascaded to her waist. you look well, catelyn lied, but... tired. her sister broke the embrace. tired. yes. oh, yes. she seemed to notice the others then; her maid, maester colemon, ser vardis. leave us, she told them. i wish to speak to my sister alone. she held catelyn's hand as they withdrew... ...and dropped it the instant the door closed. catelyn saw her face change. it was as if the sun had gone behind a cloud. have you taken leave of your senses? lysa snapped at her. to bring him here, without a word of permission, without so much as a warning, to drag us into your quarrels with the lannisters... my quarrels? catelyn could scarce believe what she was hearing. a great fire burned in the hearth, but there was no trace of warmth in lysa's voice. they were your quarrels first, sister. it was you who sent me that cursed letter, you who wrote that the lannisters had murdered your husband. to warn you, so you could stay away from them! i never meant to fight them! gods, cat, do you know what you've done? mother? a small voice said. lysa whirled, her heavy robe swirling around her. robert arryn, lord of the eyrie, stood in the doorway, clutching a ragged cloth doll and looking at them with large eyes. he was a painfully thin child, small for his age and sickly all his days, and from time to time he trembled. the shaking sickness, the maesters called it. i heard voices. small wonder, catelyn thought; lysa had almost been shouting. still, her sister looked daggers at her. this is your aunt catelyn, baby. my sister, lady stark. do you remember? the boy glanced at her blankly. i think so, he said, blinking, though he had been less than a year old the last time catelyn had seen him. lysa seated herself near the fire and said, come to mother, my sweet one. she straightened his bedclothes and fussed with his fine brown hair. isn't he beautiful? and strong too, don't you believe the things you hear. jon knew. the seed is strong, he told me. his last words. he kept saying robert's name, and he grabbed my arm so hard he left marks. tell them, the seed is strong. his seed. he wanted everyone to know what a good strong boy my baby was going to be. lysa, catelyn said, if you're right about the lannisters, all the more reason we must act quickly. we- not in front of the baby, lysa said. he has a delicate temper, don't you, sweet one? the boy is lord of the eyrie and defender of the vale, catelyn reminded her, and these are no times for delicacy. ned thinks it may come to war. quiet! lysa snapped at her. you're scaring the boy. little robert took a quick peek over his shoulder at catelyn and began to tremble. his doll fell to the rushes, and he pressed himself against his mother. don't be afraid, my sweet baby, lysa whispered. mother's here, nothing will hurt you. she opened her robe and drew out a pale, heavy breast, tipped with red. the boy grabbed for it eagerly, buried his face against her chest, and began to suck. lysa stroked his hair. catelyn was at a loss for words. jon anyn's son, she thought incredulously. she remembered her own baby, three-year-old rickon, half the age of this boy and five times as fierce. small wonder the lords of the vale were restive. for the first time she understood why the king had tried to take the child away from his mother to foster with the lannisters... we're safe here, lysa was saying. whether to her or to the boy, catelyn was not sure. don't be a fool, catelyn said, the anger rising in her. no one is safe. if you think hiding here will make the lannisters forget you, you are sadly mistaken. lysa covered her boy's ear with her hand. even if they could bring an army through the mountains and past the bloody gate, the eyrie is impregnable. you saw for yourself. no enemy could ever reach us up here. catelyn wanted to slap her. uncle brynden had tried to warn her, she realized. no castle is impregnable. this one is, lysa insisted. everyone says so. the only thing is, what am i to do with this imp you have brought me? is he a bad man? the lord of the eyrie asked, his mother's breast popping from his mouth, the nipple wet and red. a very bad man, lysa told him as she covered herself, but mother won't let him harm my little baby. make him fly, robert said eagerly. lysa stroked her son's hair. perhaps we will, she murmured. perhaps that is just what we will do. the eastern sky was rose and gold as the sun broke over the vale of arryn. catelyn stark watched the light spread, her hands resting on the delicate carved stone of the balustrade outside her window. below her the world turned from black to indigo to green as dawn crept across fields and forests. pale white mists rose off alyssa's tears, where the ghost waters plunged over the shoulder of the mountain to begin their long tumble down the face of the giant's lance. catelyn could feel the faint touch of spray on her face. alyssa arryn had seen her husband, her brothers, and all her children slain, and yet in life she had never shed a tear. so in death, the gods had decreed that she would know no rest until her weeping watered the black earth of the vale, where the men she had loved were buried. alyssa had been dead six thousand years now, and still no drop of the torrent had ever reached the valley floor far below. catelyn wondered how large a waterfall her own tears would make when she died. tell me the rest of it, she said. the kingslayer is massing a host at casterly rock, ser rodrik cassel answered from the room behind her. your brother writes that he has sent riders to the rock, demanding that lord tywin proclaim his intent, but he has had no answer. edmure has commanded lord vance and lord piper to guard the pass below the golden tooth. he vows to you that he will yield no foot of tully land without first watering it with lannister blood. catelyn turned away from the sunrise. its beauty did little to lighten her mood; it seemed cruel for a day to dawn so fair and end so foul as this one promised to. edmure has sent riders and made vows, she said, but edmure is not the lord of riverrun. what of my lord father? the message made no mention of lord hoster, my lady. ser rodrik tugged at his whiskers. they had grown in white as snow and bristly as a thornbush while he was recovering from his wounds; he looked almost himself again. my father would not have given the defense of riverrun over to edmure unless he was very sick, she said, worried. i should have been woken as soon as this bird arrived. your lady sister thought it better to let you sleep, maester colemon told me. i should have been woken, she insisted. the maester tells me your sister planned to speak with you after the combat, ser rodrik said. then she still plans to go through with this mummer's farce? catelyn grimaced. the dwarf has played her like a set of pipes, and she is too deaf to hear the tune. whatever happens this morning, ser rodrik, it is past time we took our leave. my place is at winterfell with my sons. if you are strong enough to travel, i shall ask lysa for an escort to see us to gulltown. we can take ship from there. another ship? ser rodrik looked a shade green, yet he managed not to shudder. as you say, my lady. the old knight waited outside her door as catelyn summoned the servants lysa had given her. if she spoke to her sister before the duel, perhaps she could change her mind, she thought as they dressed her. lysa's policies varied with her moods, and her moods changed hourly. the shy girl she had known at riverrun had grown into a woman who was by turns proud, fearful, cruel, dreamy, reckless, timid, stubborn, vain, and, above all, inconstant. when that vile turnkey of hers had come crawling to tell them that tyrion lannister wished to confess, catelyn had urged lysa to have the dwarf brought to them privately, but no, nothing would do but that her sister must make a show of him before half the vale. and now this... lannister is my prisoner, she told ser rodrik as they descended the tower stairs and made their way through the eyrie's cold white halls. catelyn wore plain grey wool with a silvered belt. my sister must be reminded of that. at the doors to lysa's apartments, they met her uncle storming out. going to join the fool's festival? ser brynden snapped. i'd tell you to slap some sense into your sister, if i thought it would do any good, but you'd only bruise your hand. there was a bird from riverrun, catelyn began, a letter from edmure... i know, child. the black fish that fastened his cloak was brynden's only concession to ornament. i had to hear it from maester colemon. i asked your sister for leave to take a thousand seasoned men and ride for riverrun with all haste. do you know what she told me? the vale cannot spare a thousand swords, nor even one, uncle, she said. you are the knight of the gate. your place is here. a gust of childish laughter drifted through the open doors behind him, and her uncle glanced darkly over his shoulder. well, i told her she could bloody well find herself a new knight of the gate. black fish or no, i am still a tully. i shall leave for riverrun by evenfall. catelyn could not pretend to surprise. alone? you know as well as i that you will never survive the high road. ser rodrik and i are returning to winterfell. come with us, uncle. i will give you your thousand men. riverrun will not fight alone. brynden thought a moment, then nodded a brusque agreement. as you say. it's the long way home, but i'm more like to get there. i'll wait for you below. he went striding off, his cloak swirling behind him. catelyn exchanged a look with ser rodrik. they went through the doors to the high, nervous sound of a child's giggles. lysa's apartments opened over a small garden, a circle of dirt and grass planted with blue flowers and ringed on all sides by tall white towers. the builders had intended it as a godswood, but the eyrie rested on the hard stone of the mountain, and no matter how much soil was hauled up from the vale, they could not get a weirwood to take root here. so the lords of the eyrie planted grass and scattered statuary amidst low, flowering shrubs. it was there the two champions would meet to place their lives, and that of tyrion lannister, into the hands of the gods. lysa, freshly scrubbed and garbed in cream velvet with a rope of sapphires and moonstones around her milk-white neck, was holding court on the terrace overlooking the scene of the combat, surrounded by her knights, retainers, and lords high and low. most of them still hoped to wed her, bed her, and rule the vale of arryn by her side. from what catelyn had seen during her stay at the eyrie, it was a vain hope. a wooden platform had been built to elevate robert's chair; there the lord of the eyrie sat, giggling and clapping his hands as a humpbacked puppeteer in blue-and-white motley made two wooden knights hack and slash at each other. pitchers of thick cream and baskets of blackberries had been set out, and the guests were sipping a sweet orange-scented wine from engraved silver cups. a fool's festival, brynden had called it, and small wonder. across the terrace, lysa laughed gaily at some jest of lord hunter's, and nibbled a blackberry from the point of ser lyn corbray's dagger. they were the suitors who stood highest in lysa's favor... today, at least. catelyn would have been hard-pressed to say which man was more unsuitable. eon hunter was even older than jon arryn had been, half-crippled by gout, and cursed with three quarrelsome sons, each more grasping than the last. ser lyn was a different sort of folly; lean and handsome, heir to an ancient but impoverished house, but vain, reckless, hot-tempered... and, it was whispered, notoriously uninterested in the intimate charms of women. when lysa espied catelyn, she welcomed her with a sisterly embrace and a moist kiss on the cheek. isn't it a lovely morning? the gods are smiling on us. do try a cup of the wine, sweet sister. lord hunter was kind enough to send for it, from his own cellars. thank you, no. lysa, we must talk. after, her sister promised, already beginning to turn away from her. now. catelyn spoke more loudly than she'd intended. men were turning to look. lysa, you cannot mean to go ahead with this folly. alive, the imp has value. dead, he is only food for crows. and if his champion should prevail here- small chance of that, my lady, lord hunter assured her, patting her shoulder with a liver- spotted hand. ser vardis is a doughty fighter. he will make short work of the sellsword. will he, my lord? catelyn said coolly. i wonder. she had seen bronn fight on the high road; it was no accident that he had survived the journey while other men had died. he moved like a panther, and that ugly sword of his seemed a part of his arm. lysa's suitors were gathering around them like bees round a blossom. women understand little of these things, ser morton waynwood said. ser vardis is a knight, sweet lady. this other fellow, well, his sort are all cowards at heart. useful enough in a battle, with thousands of their fellows around them, but stand them up alone and the manhood leaks right out of them. say you have the truth of it, then, catelyn said with a courtesy that made her mouth ache. what will we gain by the dwarfs death? do you imagine that jaime will care a fig that we gave his brother a trial before we flung him off a mountain? behead the man, ser lyn corbray suggested. when the kingslayer receives the imp's head, it will be a warning to him, lysa gave an impatient shake of her waist-long auburn hair. lord robert wants to see him fly, she said, as if that settled the matter. and the imp has only himself to blame. it was he who demanded a trial by combat. lady lysa had no honorable way to deny him, even if she'd wished to, lord hunter intoned ponderously. ignoring them all, catelyn turned all her force on her sister. i remind you, tyrion lannister is my prisoner. and i remind you, the dwarf murdered my lord husband! her voice rose. he poisoned the hand of the king and left my sweet baby fatherless, and now i mean to see him pay! whirling, her skirts swinging around her, lysa stalked across the terrace. ser lyn and ser morton and the other suitors excused themselves with cool nods and trailed after her. do you think he did? ser rodrik asked her quietly when they were alone again. murder lord jon, that is? the imp still denies it, and most fiercely... i believe the lannisters murdered lord arryn, catelyn replied, but whether it was tyrion, or ser jaime, or the queen, or all of them together, i could not begin to say. lysa had named cersei in the letter she had sent to winterfell, but now she seemed certain that tyrion was the killer... perhaps because the dwarf was here, while the queen was safe behind the walls of the red keep, hundreds of leagues to the south. catelyn almost wished she had burned her sister's letter before reading it. ser rodrik tugged at his whiskers. poison, well... that could be the dwarfs work, true enough. or cersei's. it's said poison is a woman's weapon, begging your pardons, my lady. the kingslayer, now i have no great liking for the man, but he's not the sort. too fond of the sight of blood on that golden sword of his. was it poison, my lady? catelyn frowned, vaguely uneasy. how else could they make it look a natural death? behind her, lord robert shrieked with delight as one of the puppet knights sliced the other in half, spilling a flood of red sawdust onto the terrace. she glanced at her nephew and sighed. the boy is utterly without discipline. he will never be strong enough to rule unless he is taken away from his mother for a time. his lord father agreed with you, said a voice at her elbow. she turned to behold maester colemon, a cup of wine in his hand. he was planning to send the boy to dragonstone for fostering, you know... oh, but i'm speaking out of turn. the apple of his throat bobbed anxiously beneath the loose maester's chain. i fear i've had too much of lord hunter's excellent wine. the prospect of bloodshed has my nerves all a- fray... you are mistaken, maester, catelyn said. it was casterly rock, not dragonstone, and those arrangements were made after the hand's death, without my sister's consent. the maester's head jerked so vigorously at the end of his absurdly long neck that he looked half a puppet himself. no, begging your forgiveness, my lady, but it was lord jon who- a bell tolled loudly below them. high lords and serving girls alike broke off what they were doing and moved to the balustrade. below, two guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks led forth tyrion lannister. the eyrie's plump septon escorted him to the statue in the center of the garden, a weeping woman carved in veined white marble, no doubt meant to be alyssa. the bad little man, lord robert said, giggling. mother, can i make him fly? i want to see him fly. later, my sweet baby, lysa promised him. trial first, drawled ser lyn corbray, then execution. a moment later the two champions appeared from opposite sides of the garden. the knight was attended by two young squires, the sellsword by the eyrie's master-at-arms. ser vardis egen was steel from head to heel, encased in heavy plate armor over mail and padded surcoat. large circular rondels, enameled cream-and-blue in the moon-and-falcon sigil of house arryn, protected the vulnerable juncture of arm and breast. a skirt of lobstered metal covered him from waist to midthigh, while a solid gorget encircled his throat. falcon's wings sprouted from the temples of his helm, and his visor was a pointed metal beak with a narrow slit for vision. bronn was so lightly armored he looked almost naked beside the knight. he wore only a shirt of black oiled ringmail over boiled leather, a round steel halfhelm with a noseguard, and a mail coif. high leather boots with steel shinguards gave some protection to his legs, and discs of black iron were sewn into the fingers of his gloves. yet catelyn noted that the sellsword stood half a hand taller than his foe, with a longer reach... and bronn was fifteen years younger, if she was any judge. they knelt in the grass beneath the weeping woman, facing each other, with lannister between them. the septon removed a faceted crystal sphere from the soft cloth bag at his waist. he lifted it high above his head, and the light shattered. rainbows danced across the imp's face. in a high, solemn, singsong voice, the septon asked the gods to look down and bear witness, to find the truth in this man's soul, to grant him life and freedom if he was innocent, death if he was guilty. his voice echoed off the surrounding towers. when the last echo had died away, the septon lowered his crystal and made a hasty departure. tyrion leaned over and whispered something in bronn's ear before the guardsmen led him away. the sellsword rose laughing and brushed a blade of grass from his knee. robert arryn, lord of the eyrie and defender of the vale, was fidgeting impatiently in his elevated chair. when are they going to fight? he asked plaintively. ser vardis was helped back to his feet by one of his squires. the other brought him a triangular shield almost four feet tall, heavy oak dotted with iron studs. they strapped it to his left forearm. when lysa's master-at-arms offered bronn a similar shield, the sellsword spat and waved it away. three days growth of coarse black beard covered his jaw and cheeks, but if he did not shave it was not for want of a razor; the edge of his sword had the dangerous glimmer of steel that had been honed every day for hours, until it was too sharp to touch. ser vardis held out a gauntleted hand, and his squire placed a handsome double-edged longsword in his grasp. the blade was engraved with a delicate silver tracery of a mountain sky; its pommel was a falcon's head, its crossguard fashioned into the shape of wings. i had that sword crafted for jon in king's landing, lysa told her guests proudly as they watched ser vardis try a practice cut. he wore it whenever he sat the iron throne in king robert's place. isn't it a lovely thing? i thought it only fitting that our champion avenge jon with his own blade. the engraved silver blade was beautiful beyond a doubt, but it seemed to catelyn that ser vardis might have been more comfortable with his own sword. yet she said nothing; she was weary of futile arguments with her sister. make them fight! lord robert called out. ser vardis faced the lord of the eyrie and lifted his sword in salute. for the eyrie and the vale! tyrion lannister had been seated on a balcony across the garden, flanked by his guards. it was to him that bronn turned with a cursory salute. they await your command, lady lysa said to her lord son. fight! the boy screamed, his arms trembling as they clutched at his chair. ser vardis swiveled, bringing up his heavy shield. bronn turned to face him. their swords rang together, once, twice, a testing. the sellsword backed off a step. the knight came after, holding his shield before him. he tried a slash, but bronn jerked back, just out of reach, and the silver blade cut only air. bronn circled to his right. ser vardis turned to follow, keeping his shield between them. the knight pressed forward, placing each foot carefully on the uneven ground. the sellsword gave way, a faint smile playing over his lips. ser vardis attacked, slashing, but bronn leapt away from him, hopping lightly over a low, moss-covered stone. now the sellsword circled left, away from the shield, toward the knight's unprotected side. ser vardis tried a hack at his legs, but he did not have the reach. bronn danced farther to his left. ser vardis turned in place. the man is craven, lord hunter declared. stand and fight, coward! other voices echoed the sentiment. catelyn looked to ser rodrik. her master-at-arms gave a curt shake of his head. he wants to make ser vardis chase him. the weight of armor and shield will tire even the strongest man. she had seen men practice at their swordplay near every day of her life, had viewed half a hundred tourneys in her time, but this was something different and deadlier: a dance where the smallest misstep meant death. and as she watched, the memory of another duel in another time came back to catelyn stark, as vivid as if it had been yesterday. they met in the lower bailey of riverrun. when brandon saw that petyr wore only helm and breastplate and mail, he took off most of his armor. petyr had begged her for a favor he might wear, but she had turned him away. her lord father promised her to brandon stark, and so it was to him that she gave her token, a pale blue handscarf she had embroidered with the leaping trout of riverrun. as she pressed it into his hand, she pleaded with him. he is only a foolish boy, but i have loved him like a brother. it would grieve me to see him die. and her betrothed looked at her with the cool grey eyes of a stark and promised to spare the boy who loved her. that fight was over almost as soon as it began. brandon was a man grown, and he drove littlefinger all the way across the bailey and down the water stair, raining steel on him with every step, until the boy was staggering and bleeding from a dozen wounds. yield! he called, more than once, but petyr would only shake his head and fight on, grimly. when the river was lapping at their ankles, brandon finally ended it, with a brutal backhand cut that bit through petyr's rings and leather into the soft flesh below the ribs, so deep that catelyn was certain that the wound was mortal. he looked at her as he fell and murmured cat as the bright blood came flowing out between his mailed fingers. she thought she had forgotten that. that was the last time she had seen his face... until the day she was brought before him in king's landing. a fortnight passed before littlefinger was strong enough to leave riverrun, but her lord father forbade her to visit him in the tower where he lay abed. lysa helped their maester nurse him; she had been softer and shyer in those days. edmure had called on him as well, but petyr had sent him away. her brother had acted as brandon's squire at the duel, and littlefinger would not forgive that. as soon as he was strong enough to be moved, lord hoster tully sent petyr baelish away in a closed litter, to finish his healing on the fingers, upon the windswept jut of rock where he'd been born. the ringing clash of steel on steel jarred catelyn back to the present. ser vardis was coming hard at bronn, driving into him with shield and sword. the sellsword scrambled backward, checking each blow, stepping lithely over rock and root, his eyes never leaving his foe. he was quicker, catelyn saw; the knight's silvered sword never came near to touching him, but his own ugly grey blade hacked a notch from ser vardis's shoulder plate. the brief flurry of fighting ended as swiftly as it had begun when bronn sidestepped and slid behind the statue of the weeping woman. ser vardis lunged at where he had been, striking a spark off the pate marble of alyssa's thigh. they're not fighting good, mother, the lord of the eyrie complained. i want them to fight. they will, sweet baby, his mother soothed him. the sellsword can't run all day. some of the lords on lysa's terrace were making wry jests as they refilled their wine cups, but across the garden, tyrion lannister's mismatched eyes watched the champions dance as if there were nothing else in the world. bronn came out from behind the statue hard and fast, still moving left, aiming a two-handed cut at the knight's unshielded right side. ser vardis blocked, but clumsily, and the sellsword's blade flashed upward at his head. metal rang, and a falcon's wing collapsed with a crunch. ser vardis took a half step back to brace himself, raised his shield. oak chips flew as bronn's sword hacked at the wooden wall. the sellsword stepped left again, away from the shield, and caught ser vardis across the stomach, the razor edge of his blade leaving a bright gash when it bit into the knight's plate. ser vardis drove forward off his back foot, his own silver blade descending in a savage arc. bronn slammed it aside and danced away. the knight crashed into the weeping woman, rocking her on her plinth. staggered, he stepped backward, his head turning this way and that as he searched for his foe. the slit visor of his helm narrowed his vision. behind you, ser! lord hunter shouted, too late. bronn brought his sword down with both hands, catching ser vardis in the elbow of his sword arm. the thin lobstered metal that protected the joint crunched. the knight grunted, turning, wrenching his weapon up. this time bronn stood his ground. the swords flew at each other, and their steel song filled the garden and rang off the white towers of the eyrie. ser vardis is hurt, ser rodrik said, his voice grave. catelyn did not need to be told; she had eyes, she could see the bright finger of blood running along the knight's forearm, the wetness inside the elbow joint. every parry was a little slower and a little lower than the one before. ser vardis turned his side to his foe, trying to use his shield to block instead, but bronn slid around him, quick as a cat. the sellsword seemed to be getting stronger. his cuts were leaving their marks now. deep shiny gashes gleamed all over the knight's armor, on his right thigh, his beaked visor, crossing on his breastplate, a long one along the front of his gorget. the moon-and-falcon rondel over ser vardis's right arm was sheared clean in half, hanging by its strap. they could hear his labored breath, rattling through the air holes in his visor. blind with arrogance as they were, even the knights and lords of the vale could see what was happening below them, yet her sister could not. enough, ser vardis! lady lysa called down. finish him now, my baby is growing tired. and it must be said of ser vardis egen that he was true to his lady's command, even to the last. one moment he was reeling backward, half-crouched behind his scarred shield; the next he charged. the sudden bull rush caught bronn off balance. ser vardis crashed into him and slammed the lip of his shield into the sellsword's face. almost, almost, bronn lost his feet... he staggered back, tripped over a rock, and caught hold of the weeping woman to keep his balance. throwing aside his shield, ser vardis lurched after him, using both hands to raise his sword. his right arm was blood from elbow to fingers now, yet his last desperate blow would have opened bronn from neck to navel... if the sellsword had stood to receive it. but bronn jerked back. jon arryn's beautiful engraved silver sword glanced off the marble elbow of the weeping woman and snapped clean a third of the way up the blade. bronn put his shoulder into the statue's back. the weathered likeness of alyssa arryn tottered and fell with a great crash, and ser vardis egen went down beneath her. bronn was on him in a heartbeat, kicking what was left of his shattered rondel aside to expose the weak spot between arm and breastplate. ser vardis was lying on his side, pinned beneath the broken torso of the weeping woman. catelyn heard the knight groan as the sellsword lifted his blade with both hands and drove it down and in with all his weight behind it, under the arm and through the ribs. ser vardis egen shuddered and lay still. silence hung over the eyrie. bronn yanked off his halfhelm and let it fall to the grass. his lip was smashed and bloody where the shield had caught him, and his coal-black hair was soaked with sweat. he spit out a broken tooth. is it over, mother? the lord of the eyrie asked. no, catelyn wanted to tell him, it's only now beginning. yes, lysa said glumly, her voice as cold and dead as the captain of her guard. can i make the little man fly now? across the garden, tyrion lannister got to his feet. not this little man, he said. this little man is going down in the turnip hoist, thank you very much. you presume- lysa began. i presume that house arryn remembers its own words, the imp said. as high as honor.  you promised i could make him fly, the lord of the eyrie screamed at his mother. he began to shake. lady lysa's face was flushed with fury. the gods have seen fit to proclaim him innocent, child. we have no choice but to free him. she lifted her voice. guards. take my lord of lannister and his... creature here out of my sight. escort them to the bloody gate and set them free. see that they have horses and supplies sufficient to reach the trident, and make certain all their goods and weapons are returned to them. they shall need them on the high road. the high road, tyrion lannister said. lysa allowed herself a faint, satisfied smile. it was another sort of death sentence, catelyn realized. tyrion lannister must know that as well. yet the dwarf favored lady arryn with a mocking bow. as you command, my lady, he said. i believe we know the way. it was too far to make out the banners clearly, but even through the drifting fog she could see that they were white, with a dark smudge in their center that could only be the direwolf of stark, grey upon its icy field. when she saw it with her own eyes, catelyn reined up her horse and bowed her head in thanks. the gods were good. she was not too late. they await our coming, my lady, ser wylis manderly said, as my lord father swore they would. let us not keep them waiting any longer, ser. ser brynden tully put the spurs to his horse and trotted briskly toward the banners. catelyn rode beside him. ser wylis and his brother ser wendel followed, leading their levies, near fifteen hundred men: some twenty-odd knights and as many squires, two hundred mounted lances, swordsmen, and freeriders, and the rest foot, armed with spears, pikes and tridents. lord wyman had remained behind to see to the defenses of white harbor. a man of near sixty years, he had grown too stout to sit a horse. if i had thought to see war again in my lifetime, i should have eaten a few less eels, he'd told catelyn when he met her ship, slapping his massive belly with both hands. his fingers were fat as sausages. my boys will see you safe to your son, though, have no fear. his boys were both older than catelyn, and she might have wished that they did not take after their father quite so closely. ser wylis was only a few eels short of not being able to mount his own horse; she pitied the poor animal. ser wendel, the younger boy, would have been the fattest man she'd ever known, had she only neglected to meet his father and brother. wylis was quiet and formal, wendel loud and boisterous; both had ostentatious walrus mustaches and heads as bare as a baby's bottom; neither seemed to own a single garment that was not spotted with food stains. yet she liked them well enough; they had gotten her to robb, as their father had vowed, and nothing else mattered. she was pleased to see that her son had sent eyes out, even to the east. the lannisters would come from the south when they came, but it was good that robb was being careful. my son is leading a host to war, she thought, still only half believing it. she was desperately afraid for him, and for winterfell, yet she could not deny feeling a certain pride as well. a year ago he had been a boy. what was he now? she wondered. outriders spied the manderly banners-the white merman with trident in hand, rising from a blue-green sea-and hailed them warmly. they were led to a spot of high ground dry enough for a camp. ser wylis called a halt there, and remained behind with his men to see the fires laid and the horses tended, while his brother wendel rode on with catelyn and her uncle to present their father's respects to their liege lord. the ground under their horses' hooves was soft and wet. it fell away slowly beneath them as they rode past smoky peat fires, lines of horses, and wagons heavy-laden with hardbread and salt beef. on a stony outcrop of land higher than the surrounding country, they passed a lord's pavilion with walls of heavy sailcloth. catelyn recognized the banner, the bull moose of the hornwoods, brown on its dark orange field. just beyond, through the mists, she glimpsed the walls and towers of moat cailin... or what remained of them. immense blocks of black basalt, each as large as a crofter's cottage, lay scattered and tumbled like a child's wooden blocks, half-sunk in the soft boggy soil. nothing else remained of a curtain wall that had once stood as high as winterfell's. the wooden keep was gone entirely, rotted away a thousand years past, with not so much as a timber to mark where it had stood. all that was left of the great stronghold of the first men were three towers... three where there had once been twenty, if the taletellers could be believed. the gatehouse tower looked sound enough, and even boasted a few feet of standing wall to either side of it. the drunkard's tower, off in the bog where the south and west walls had once met, leaned like a man about to spew a bellyful of wine into the gutter. and the tall, slender children's tower, where legend said the children of the forest had once called upon their nameless gods to send the hammer of the waters, had lost half its crown. it looked as if some great beast had taken a bite out of the crenellations along the tower top, and spit the rubble across the bog. all three towers were green with moss. a tree was growing out between the stones on the north side of the gatehouse tower, its gnarled limbs festooned with ropy white blankets of ghostskin. gods have mercy, ser brynden exclaimed when he saw what lay before them. this is moat cailin? it's no more than a- -death trap, catelyn finished. i know how it looks, uncle. i thought the same the first time i saw it, but ned assured me that this ruin is more formidable than it seems. the three surviving towers command the causeway from all sides, and any enemy must pass between them. the bogs here are impenetrable, full of quicksands and suckholes and teeming with snakes. to assault any of the towers, an army would need to wade through waist-deep black muck, cross a moat full of lizard-lions, and scale walls slimy with moss, all the while exposing themselves to fire from archers in the other towers. she gave her uncle a grim smile. and when night falls, there are said to be ghosts, cold vengeful spirits of the north who hunger for southron blood. ser brynden chuckled. remind me not to linger here. last i looked, i was southron myself. standards had been raised atop all three towers. the karstark sunburst hung from the drunkard's tower, beneath the direwolf; on the children's tower it was the greatjon's giant in shattered chains. but on the gatehouse tower, the stark banner flew alone. that was where robb had made his seat. catelyn made for it, with ser brynden and ser wendel behind her, their horses stepping slowly down the log-andplank road that had been laid across the green-and-black fields of mud. she found her son surrounded by his father's lords bannermen, in a drafty hall with a peat fire smoking in a black hearth. he was seated at a massive stone table, a pile of maps and papers in front of him, talking intently with roose bolton and the greatjon. at first he did not notice her... but his wolf did. the great grey beast was lying near the fire, but when catelyn entered he lifted his head, and his golden eyes met hers. the lords fell silent one by one, and robb looked up at the sudden quiet and saw her. mother? he said, his voice thick with emotion. catelyn wanted to run to him, to kiss his sweet brow, to wrap him in her arms and hold him so tightly that he would never come to harm... but here in front of his lords, she dared not. he was playing a man's part now, and she would not take that away from him. so she held herself at the far end of the basalt slab they were using for a table. the direwolf got to his feet and padded across the room to where she stood. it seemed bigger than a wolf ought to be. you've grown a beard, she said to robb, while grey wind sniffed her hand. he rubbed his stubbled jaw, suddenly awkward. yes. his chin hairs were redder than the ones on his head. i like it. catelyn stroked the wolfs head, gently. it makes you look like my brother edmure. grey wind nipped at her fingers, playful, and trotted back to his place by the fire. ser helman tallhart was the first to follow the direwolf across the room to pay his respects, kneeling before her and pressing his brow to her hand. lady catelyn, he said, you are fair as ever, a welcome sight in troubled times. the glovers followed, galbart and robert, and greatjon umber, and the rest, one by one. theon greyjoy was the last. i had not looked to see you here, my lady, he said as he knelt. i had not thought to be here, catelyn said, until i came ashore at white harbor, and lord wyman told me that robb had called the banners. you know his son, ser wendel. wendel manderly stepped forward and bowed as low as his girth would allow. and my uncle, ser brynden tully, who has left my sister's service for mine. the blackfish, robb said. thank you for joining us, ser. we need men of your courage. and you, ser wendel, i am glad to have you here. is ser rodrik with you as well, mother? i've missed him. ser rodrik is on his way north from white harbor. i have named him castellan and commanded him to hold winterfell till our return. maester luwin is a wise counsellor, but unskilled in the arts of war. have no fear on that count, lady stark, the greatjon told her in his bass rumble. winterfell is safe. we'll shove our swords up tywin lannister's bunghole soon enough, begging your pardons, and then it's on to the red keep to free ned. my lady, a question, as it please you. roose bolton, lord of the dreadfort, had a small voice, yet when he spoke larger men quieted to listen. his eyes were curiously pale, almost without color, and his look disturbing. it is said that you hold lord tywin's dwarf son as captive. have you brought him to us? i vow, we should make good use of such a hostage. i did hold tyrion lannister, but no longer, catelyn was forced to admit. a chorus of consternation greeted the news. i was no more pleased than you, my lords. the gods saw fit to free him, with some help from my fool of a sister. she ought not to be so open in her contempt, she knew, but her parting from the eyrie had not been pleasant. she had offered to take lord robert with her, to foster him at winterfell for a few years. the company of other boys would do him good, she had dared to suggest. lysa's rage had been frightening to behold. sister or no, she had replied, if you try to steal my son, you will leave by the moon door. after that there was no more to be said. the lords were anxious to question her further, but catelyn raised a hand. no doubt we will have time for all this later, but my journey has fatigued me. i would speak with my son alone. i know you will forgive me, my lords. she gave them no choice; led by the ever-obliging lord hornwood, the bannermen bowed and took their leave. and you, theon, she added when greyjoy lingered. he smiled and left them. there was ale and cheese on the table. catelyn tilled a horn, sat, sipped, and studied her son. he seemed taller than when she'd left, and the wisps of beard did make him look older. edmure was sixteen when he grew his first whiskers. i will be sixteen soon enough, robb said. and you are fifteen now. fifteen, and leading a host to battle. can you understand why i might fear, robb? his look grew stubborn. there was no one else. no one? she said. pray, who were those men i saw here a moment ago? roose bolton, rickard karstark, galbart and robert glover, the greatjon, heiman tallhart... you might have given the command to any of them. gods be good, you might even have sent theon, though he would not be my choice. they are not starks, he said. they are men, robb, seasoned in battle. you were fighting with wooden swords less than a year past. she saw anger in his eyes at that, but it was gone as quick as it came, and suddenly he was a boy again. i know, he said, abashed. are you... are you sending me back to winterfell? catelyn sighed. i should. you ought never have left. yet i dare not, not now. you have come too far. someday these lords will look to you as their liege. if i pack you off now, like a child being sent to bed without his supper, they will remember, and laugh about it in their cups. the day will come when you need them to respect you, even fear you a little. laughter is poison to fear. i will not do that to you, much as i might wish to keep you safe. you have my thanks, mother, he said, his relief obvious beneath the formality. she reached across his table and touched his hair. you are my firstborn, robb. i have only to look at you to remember the day you came into the world, red- faced and squalling. he rose, clearly uncomfortable with her touch, and walked to the hearth. grey wind rubbed his head against his leg. you know... about father? yes. the reports of robert's sudden death and ned's fall had frightened catelyn more than she could say, but she would not let her son see her fear. lord manderly told me when i landed at white harbor. have you had any word of your sisters? there was a letter, robb said, scratching his direwolf under the jaw. one for you as well, but it came to winterfell with mine. he went to the table, rummaged among some maps and papers, and returned with a crumpled parchment. this is the one she wrote me, i never thought to bring yours. something in robb's tone troubled her. she smoothed out the paper and read. concern gave way to disbelief, then to anger, and lastly to fear. this is cersei's letter, not your sister's, she said when she was done. the real message is in what sansa does not say. all this about how kindly and gently the lannisters are treating her... i know the sound of a threat, even whispered. they have sansa hostage, and they mean to keep her. there's no mention of arya, robb pointed out, miserable. no. catelyn did not want to think what that might mean, not now, not here. i had hoped... if you still held the imp, a trade of hostages... he took sansa's letter and crumpled it in his fist, and she could tell from the way he did it that it was not the first time. is there word from the eyrie? i wrote to aunt lysa, asking help. has she called lord arryn's banners, do you know? will the knights of the vale come join us? only one, she said, the best of them, my uncle... but brynden blackfish was a tully first. my sister is not about to stir beyond her bloody gate. robb took it hard. mother, what are we going to do? i brought this whole army together, eighteen thousand men, but i don't... i'm not certain... he looked to her, his eyes shining, the proud young lord melted away in an instant, and quick as that he was a child again, a fifteen- year-old boy looking to his mother for answers. it would not do. what are you so afraid of, robb? she asked gently. i... he turned his head away, to hide the first tear. if we march... even if we win... the lannisters hold sansa, and father. they'll kill them, won't they? they want us to think so. you mean they're lying? i do not know, robb. what i do know is that you have no choice. if you go to king's landing and swear fealty, you will never be allowed to leave. if you turn your tail and retreat to winterfell, your lords will lose all respect for you. some may even go over to the lannisters. then the queen, with that much less to fear, can do as she likes with her prisoners. our best hope, our only true hope, is that you can defeat the foe in the field. if you should chance to take lord tywin or the kingslayer captive, why then a trade might very well be possible, but that is not the heart of it. so long as you have power enough that they must fear you, ned and your sister should be safe. cersei is wise enough to know that she may need them to make her peace, should the fighting go against her. what if the fighting doesn't go against her? robb asked. what if it goes against us? catelyn took his hand. robb, i will not soften the truth for you. if you lose, there is no hope for any of us. they say there is naught but stone at the heart of casterly rock. remember the fate of rhaegar's children. she saw the fear in his young eyes then, but there was a strength as well. then i will not lose, he vowed. tell me what you know of the fighting in the riverlands, she said. she had to learn if he was truly ready. less than a fortnight past, they fought a battle in the hills below the golden tooth, robb said. uncle edmure had sent lord vance and lord piper to hold the pass, but the kingslayer descended on them and put them to flight. lord vance was slain. the last word we had was that lord piper was falling back to join your brother and his other bannermen at riverrun, with jaime lannister on his heels. that's not the worst of it, though. all the time they were battling in the pass, lord tywin was bringing a second lannister army around from the south. it's said to be even larger than jaime's host. father must have known that, because he sent out some men to oppose them, under the king's own banner. he gave the command to some southron lordling, lord erik or derik or something like that, but ser raymun darry rode with him, and the letter said there were other knights as well, and a force of father's own guardsmen. only it was a trap. lord derik had no sooner crossed the red fork than the lannisters fell upon him, the king's banner be damned, and gregor clegane took them in the rear as they tried to pull back across the mummer's ford. this lord derik and a few others may have escaped, no one is certain, but ser raymun was killed, and most of our men from winterfell. lord tywin has closed off the kingsroad, it's said, and now he's marching north toward harrenhal, burning as he goes. grim and grimmer, thought catelyn. it was worse than she'd imagined. you mean to meet him here? she asked. if he comes so far, but no one thinks he will, robb said. i've sent word to howland reed, father's old friend at greywater watch. if the lannisters come up the neck, the crannogmen will bleed them every step of the way, but galbart glover says lord tywin is too smart for that, and roose bolton agrees. he'll stay close to the trident, they believe, taking the castles of the river lords one by one, until riverrun stands alone. we need to march south to meet him. the very idea of it chilled catelyn to the bone. what chance would a fifteen- year-old boy have against seasoned battle commanders like jaime and tywin lannister? is that wise? you are strongly placed here. it's said that the old kings in the north could stand at moat cailin and throw back hosts ten times the size of their own. yes, but our food and supplies are running low, and this is not land we can live off easily. we've been waiting for lord manderly, but now that his sons have joined us, we need to march. she was hearing the lords bannermen speaking with her son's voice, she realized. over the years, she had hosted many of them at winterfell, and been welcomed with ned to their own hearths and tables. she knew what sorts of men they were, each one. she wondered if robb did. and yet there was sense in what they said. this host her son had assembled was not a standing army such as the free cities were accustomed to maintain, nor a force of guardsmen paid in coin. most of them were smallfolk: crofters, fieldhands, fishermen, sheepherders, the sons of innkeeps and traders and tanners, leavened with a smattering of sellswords and freeriders hungry for plunder. when their lords called, they came... but not forever. marching is all very well, she said to her son, but where, and to what purpose? what do you mean to do? robb hesitated. the greatjon thinks we should take the battle to lord tywin and surprise him, he said, but the glovers and the karstarks feel we'd be wiser to go around his army and join up with uncle ser edmure against the kingslayer. he ran his fingers through his shaggy mane of auburn hair, looking unhappy. though by the time we reach riverrun... i'm not certain... be certain, catelyn told her son, or go home and take up that wooden sword again. you cannot afford to seem indecisive in front of men like roose bolton and rickard karstark. make no mistake, robb-these are your bannermen, not your friends. you named yourself battle commander. command. her son looked at her, startled, as if he could not credit what he was hearing. as you say, mother. i'll ask you again. what do you mean to do? robb drew a map across the table, a ragged piece of old leather covered with lines of faded paint. one end curled up from being rolled; he weighed it down with his dagger. both plans have virtues, but... look, if we try to swing around lord tywin's host, we take the risk of being caught between him and the kingslayer, and if we attack him... by all reports, he has more men than i do, and a lot more armored horse. the greatjon says that won't matter if we catch him with his breeches down, but it seems to me that a man who has fought as many battles as tywin lannister won't be so easily surprised. good, she said. she could hear echoes of ned in his voice, as he sat there, puzzling over the map. tell me more. i'd leave a small force here to hold moat cailin, archers mostly, and march the rest down the causeway, he said, but once we're below the neck, i'd split our host in two. the foot can continue down the kingsroad, while our horsemen cross the green fork at the twins. he pointed. when lord tywin gets word that we've come south, he'll march north to engage our main host, leaving our riders free to hurry down the west bank to riverrun. robb sat back, not quite daring to smile, but pleased with himself and hungry for her praise. catelyn frowned down at the map. you'd put a river between the two parts of your army. and between jaime and lord tywin, he said eagerly. the smile came at last. there's no crossing on the green fork above the ruby ford, where robert won his crown. not until the twins, all the way up here, and lord frey controls that bridge. he's your father's bannerman, isn't that so? the late lord frey, catelyn thought. he is, she admitted, but my father has never trusted him. nor should you. i won't, robb promised. what do you think? she was impressed despite herself. he looks like a tully, she thought, yet he's still his father's son, and ned taught him well. which force would you command? the horse, he answered at once. again like his father; ned would always take the more dangerous task himself. and the other? the greatjon is always saying that we should smash lord tywin. i thought i'd give him the honor. it was his first misstep, but how to make him see it without wounding his fledgling confidence? your father once told me that the greatjon was as fearless as any man he had ever known. robb grinned. grey wind ate two of his fingers, and he laughed about it. so you agree, then? your father is not fearless, catelyn pointed out. he is brave, but that is very different. her son considered that for a moment. the eastern host will be all that stands between lord tywin and winterfell, he said thoughtfully. well, them and whatever few bowmen i leave here at the moat. so i don't want someone fearless, do it. no. you want cold cunning, i should think, not courage. roose bolton, robb said at once. that man scares me. then let us pray he will scare tywin lannister as well. robb nodded and rolled up the map. i'll give the commands, and assemble an escort to take you home to winterfell. catelyn had fought to keep herself strong, for ned's sake and for this stubborn brave son of theirs. she had put despair and fear aside, as if they were garments she did not choose to wear... but now she saw that she had donned them after all. i am not going to winterfell, she heard herself say, surprised at the sudden rush of tears that blurred her vision. my father may be dying behind the walls of riverrun. my brother is surrounded by foes. i must go to them. as the host trooped down the causeway through the black bogs of the neck and spilled out into the riverlands beyond, catelyn's apprehensions grew. she masked her fears behind a face kept still and stern, yet they were there all the same, growing with every league they crossed. her days were anxious, her nights restless, and every raven that flew overhead made her clench her teeth. she feared for her lord father, and wondered at his ominous silence. she feared for her brother edmure, and prayed that the gods would watch over him if he must face the kingslayer in battle. she feared for ned and her girls, and for the sweet sons she had left behind at winterfell. and yet there was nothing she could do for any of them, and so she made herself put all thought of them aside. you must save your strength for robb, she told herself. he is the only one you can help. you must be as fierce and hard as the north, catelyn tully. you must be a stark for true now, like your son. robb rode at the front of the column, beneath the flapping white banner of winterfell. each day he would ask one of his lords to join him, so they might confer as they marched; he honored every man in turn, showing no favorites, listening as his lord father had listened, weighing the words of one against the other. he has learned so much from ned, she thought as she watched him, but has he learned enough? the blackfish had taken a hundred picked men and a hundred swift horses and raced ahead to screen their movements and scout the way. the reports ser brynden's riders brought back did little to reassure her. lord tywin's host was still many days to the south... but walder frey, lord of the crossing, had assembled a force of near four thousand men at his castles on the green fork. late again, catelyn murmured when she heard. it was the trident all over, damn the man. her brother edmure had called the banners; by rights, lord frey should have gone to join the tully host at riverrun, yet here he sat. four thousand men, robb repeated, more perplexed than angry. lord frey cannot hope to fight the lannisters by himself. surely he means to join his power to ours. does he? catelyn asked. she had ridden forward to join robb and robett glover, his companion of the day. the vanguard spread out behind them, a slow-moving forest of lances and banners and spears. i wonder. expect nothing of walder frey, and you will never be surprised. he's your father's bannerman. some men take their oaths more seriously than others, robb. and lord walder was always friendlier with casterly rock than my father would have liked. one of his sons is wed to tywin lannister's sister. that means little of itself, to be sure. lord walder has sired a great many children over the years, and they must needs marry someone. still... do you think he means to betray us to the lannisters, my lady? robett glover asked gravely. catelyn sighed. if truth be told, i doubt even lord frey knows what lord frey intends to do. he has an old man's caution and a young man's ambition, and has never lacked for cunning. we must have the twins, mother, robb said heatedly. there is no other way across the river. you know that. yes. and so does walder frey, you can be sure of that. that night they made camp on the southern edge of the bogs, halfway between the kingsroad and the river. it was there theon greyjoy brought them further word from her uncle. ser brynden says to tell you he's crossed swords with the lannisters. there are a dozen scouts who won't be reporting back to lord tywin anytime soon. or ever. he grinned. ser addam marbrand commands their outriders, and he's pulling back south, burning as he goes. he knows where we are, more or less, but the blackfish vows he will not know when we split. unless lord frey tells him, catelyn said sharply. theon, when you return to my uncle, tell him he is to place his best bowmen around the twins, day and night, with orders to bring down any raven they see leaving the battlements. i want no birds bringing word of my son's movements to lord tywin. ser brynden has seen to it already, my lady, theon replied with a cocky smile. a few more blackbirds, and we should have enough to bake a pie. i'll save you their feathers for a hat. she ought to have known that brynden blackfish would be well ahead of her. what have the freys been doing while the lannisters; burn their fields and plunder their holdfasts? there's been some fighting between ser addam's men and lord walder's, theon answered. not a day's ride from here, we found two lannister scouts feeding the crows where the freys had strung them up. most of lord walder's strength remains massed at the twins, though. that bore walder frey's seal beyond a doubt, catelyn thought bitterly; hold back, wait, watch, take no risk unless forced to it. if he's been fighting the lannisters, perhaps he does mean to hold to his vows, robb said. catelyn was less encouraged. defending his own lands is one thing, open battle against lord tywin quite another. robb turned back to theon greyjoy. has the blackfish found any other way across the green fork? theon shook his head. the river's running high and fast. ser brynden says it can't be forded, not this far north. i must have that crossing! robb declared, fuming. oh, our horses might be able to swim the river, i suppose, but not with armored men on their backs. we'd need to build rafts to pole our steel across, helms and mail and lances, and we don't have the trees for that. or the time. lord tywin is marching north. he balled his hand into a fist. lord frey would be a fool to try and bar our way, theon greyjoy said with his customary easy confidence. we have five times his numbers. you can take the twins if you need to, robb. not easily, catelyn warned them, and not in time. while you were mounting your siege, tywin lannister would bring up his host and assault you from the rear. robb glanced from her to greyjoy, searching for an answer and finding none. for a moment he looked even younger than his fifteen years, despite his mail and sword and the stubble on his cheeks. what would my lord father do? he asked her. find a way across, she told him. whatever it took. the next morning it was ser brynden tully himself who rode back to them. he had put aside the heavy plate and helm he'd worn as the knight of the gate for the lighter leather-and-mail of an outrider, but his obsidian fish still fastened his cloak. her uncle's face was grave as he swung down off his horse. there has been a battle under the walls of riverrun, he said, his mouth grim. we had it from a lannister outrider we took captive. the kingslayer has destroyed edmure's host and sent the lords of the trident reeling in flight. a cold hand clutched at catelyn's heart. and my brother? wounded and taken prisoner, ser brynden said. lord blackwood and the other survivors are under siege inside riverrun, surrounded by jaime's host. robb looked fretful. we must get across this accursed river if we're to have any hope of relieving them in time. that will not be easily done, her uncle cautioned. lord frey has pulled his whole strength back inside his castles, and his gates are closed and barred. damn the man, robb swore. if the old fool does not relent and let me cross, he'll leave me no choice but to storm his walls. i'll pull the twins down around his ears if i have to, we'll see how well he likes that! you sound like a sulky boy, robb, catelyn said sharply. a child sees an obstacle, and his first thought is to run around it or knock it down. a lord must learn that sometimes words can accomplish what swords cannot. robb's neck reddened at the rebuke. tell me what you mean, mother, he said meekly. the freys have held the crossing for six hundred years, and for six hundred years they have never failed to exact their toll. what toll? what does he want? she smiled. that is what we must discover. and what if i do not choose to pay this toll? then you had best retreat back to moat cailin, deploy to meet lord tywin in battle... or grow wings. i see no other choices. catelyn put her heels to her horse and rode off, leaving her son to ponder her words. it would not do to make him feel as if his mother were usurping his place. did you teach him wisdom as well as valor, ned? she wondered. did you teach him how to kneel? the graveyards of the seven kingdoms were full of brave men who had never learned that lesson. it was near midday when their vanguard came in sight of the twins, where the lords of the crossing had their seat. the green fork ran swift and deep here, but the freys had spanned it many centuries past and grown rich off the coin men paid them to cross. their bridge was a massive arch of smooth grey rock, wide enough for two wagons to pass abreast; the water tower rose from the center of the span, commanding both road and river with its arrow slits, murder holes, and portcullises. it had taken the freys three generations to complete their bridge; when they were done they'd thrown up stout timber keeps on either bank, so no one might cross without their leave. the timber had long since given way to stone. the twins-two squat, ugly, formidable castles, identical in every respect, with the bridge arching between-had guarded the crossing for centuries. high curtain walls, deep moats, and heavy oak-and-iron gates protected the approaches, the bridge footings rose from within stout inner keeps, there was a barbican and portcullis on either bank, and the water tower defended the span itself. one glance was sufficient to tell catelyn that the castle would not be taken by storm. the battlements bristled with spears and swords and scorpions, there was an archer at every crenel and arrow slit, the drawbridge was up, the portcullis down, the gates closed and barred. the greatjon began to curse and swear as soon as he saw what awaited them. lord rickard karstark glowered in silence. that cannot be assaulted, my lords, roose bolton announced. nor can we take it by siege, without an army on the far bank to invest the other castle, helman tallhart said gloomily. across the deep-running green waters, the western twin stood like a reflection of its eastern brother. even if we had the time. which, to be sure, we do not. as the northern lords studied the castle, a sally port opened, a plank bridge slid across the moat, and a dozen knights rode forth to confront them, led by four of lord walder's many sons. their banner bore twin towers, dark blue on a field of pale silver-grey. ser stevron frey, lord walder's heir, spoke for them. the freys all looked like weasels; ser stevron, past sixty with grandchildren of his own, looked like an especially old and tired weasel, yet he was polite enough. my lord father has sent me to greet you, and inquire as to who leads this mighty host. i do. robb spurred his horse forward. he was in his armor, with the direwolf shield of winterfell strapped to his saddle and grey wind padding by his side. the old knight looked at her son with a faint flicker of amusement in his watery grey eyes, though his gelding whickered uneasily and sidled away from the direwolf. my lord father would be most honored if you would share meat and mead with him in the castle and explain your purpose here. his words crashed among the lords bannermen like a great stone from a catapult. not one of them approved. they cursed, argued, shouted down each other. you must not do this, my lord, galbart glover pleaded with robb. lord walder is not to be trusted. roose bolton nodded. go in there alone and you're his. he can sell you to the lannisters, throw you in a dungeon, or slit your throat, as he likes. if he wants to talk to us, let him open his gates, and we will all share his meat and mead, declared ser wendel manderly. or let him come out and treat with robb here, in plain sight of his men and ours, suggested his brother, ser wylis. catelyn stark shared all their doubts, but she had only to glance at ser stevron to see that he was not pleased by what he was hearing. a few more words and the chance would be lost. she had to act, and quickly. i will go, she said loudly. you, my lady? the greatjon furrowed his brow. mother, are you certain? clearly, robb was not. never more, catelyn lied glibly. lord walder is my father's bannerman. i have known him since i was a girl. he would never offer me any harm. unless he saw some profit in it, she added silently, but some truths did not bear saying, and some lies were necessary. i am certain my lord father would be pleased to speak to the lady catelyn, ser stevron said. to vouchsafe for our good intentions, my brother ser perwyn will remain here until she is safely returned to you... he shall be our honored guest, said robb. ser perwyn, the youngest of the four freys in the party, dismounted and handed the reins of his horse to a brother. i require my lady mother's return by evenfall, ser stevron, robb went on. it is not my intent to linger here long. ser stevron frey gave a polite nod. as you say, my lord. catelyn spurred her horse forward and did not look back. lord walder's sons and envoys fell in around her. her father had once said of walder frey that he was the only lord in the seven kingdoms who could field an army out of his breeches. when the lord of the crossing welcomed catelyn in the great hall of the east castle, surrounded by twenty living sons (minus ser perwyn, who would have made twenty-one), thirty-six grandsons, nineteen great-grandsons, and numerous daughters, granddaughters, bastards, and grandbastards, she understood just what he had meant. lord walder was ninety, a wizened pink weasel with a bald spotted head, too gouty to stand unassisted. his newest wife, a pale frail girl of sixteen years, walked beside his litter when they carried him in. she was the eighth lady frey. it is a great pleasure to see you again after so many years, my lord, catelyn said. the old man squinted at her suspiciously. is it? i doubt that. spare me your sweet words, lady catelyn, i am too old. why are you here? is your boy too proud to come before me himself? what am i to do with you? catelyn had been a girl the last time she had visited the twins, but even then lord walder had been irascible, sharp of tongue, and blunt of manner. age had made him worse than ever, it would seem. she would need to choose her words with care, and do her best to take no offense from his. father, ser stevron said reproachfully, you forget yourself. lady stark is here at your invitation. did i ask you? you are not lord frey yet, not until i die. do i look dead? i'll hear no instructions from you. this is no way to speak in front of our noble guest, father, one of his younger sons said. now my bastards presume to teach me courtesy, lord walder complained. i'll speak any way i like, damn you. i've had three kings to guest in my life, and queens as well, do you think i require lessons from the likes of you, ryger? your mother was milking goats the first time i gave her my seed. he dismissed the red- faced youth with a flick of his fingers and gestured to two of his other sons. danwell, whalen, help me to my chair. they shifted lord walder from his litter and carried him to the high seat of the freys, a tall chair of black oak whose back was carved in the shape of two towers linked by a bridge. his young wife crept up timidly and covered his legs with a blanket. when he was settled, the old man beckoned catelyn forward and planted a papery dry kiss on her hand. there, he announced. now that i have observed the courtesies, my lady, perhaps my sons will do me the honor of shutting their mouths. why are you here? to ask you to open your gates, my lord, catelyn replied politely. my son and his lords bannermen are most anxious to cross the river and be on their way. to riverrun? he sniggered. oh, no need to tell me, no need. i'm not blind yet. the old man can still read a map. to riverrun, catelyn confirmed. she saw no reason to deny it. where i might have expected to find you, my lord. you are still my father's bannerman, are you not? heh, said lord walder, a noise halfway between a laugh and a grunt. i called my swords, yes i did, here they are, you saw them on the walls. it was my intent to march as soon as all my strength was assembled. well, to send my sons. i am well past marching myself, lady catelyn. he looked around for likely confirmation and pointed to a tall, stooped man of fifty years. tell her, jared. tell her that was my intent. it was, my lady, said ser jared frey, one of his sons by his second wife. on my honor. is it my fault that your fool brother lost his battle before we could march? he leaned back against his cushions and scowled at her, as if challenging her to dispute his version of events. i am told the kingslayer went through him like an axe through ripe cheese. why should my boys hurry south to die? all those who did go south are running north again. catelyn would gladly have spitted the querulous old man and roasted him over a fire, but she had only till evenfall to open the bridge. calmly, she said, all the more reason that we must reach riverrun, and soon. where can we go to talk, my lord? we're talking now, lord frey complained. the spotted pink head snapped around. what are you all looking at? he shouted at his kin. get out of here. lady stark wants to speak to me in private. might be she has designs on my fidelity, heh. go, all of you, find something useful to do. yes, you too, woman. out, out, out. as his sons and grandsons and daughters and bastards and nieces and nephews streamed from the hall, he leaned close to catelyn and confessed, they're all waiting for me to die. stevron's been waiting for forty years, but i keep disappointing him. heh. why should i die just so he can be a lord? i ask you. i won't do it. i have every hope that you will live to be a hundred. that would boil them, to be sure. oh, to be sure. now, what do you want to say? we want to cross, catelyn told him. oh, do you? that's blunt. why should i let you? for a moment her anger flared. if you were strong enough to climb your own battlements, lord frey, you would see that my son has twenty thousand men outside your walls. they'll be twenty thousand fresh corpses when lord tywin gets here, the old man shot back. don't you try and frighten me, my lady. your husband's in some traitor's cell under the red keep, your father's sick, might be dying, and jaime lannister's got your brother in chains. what do you have that i should fear? that son of yours? i'll match you son for son, and i'll still have eighteen when yours are all dead. you swore an oath to my father, catelyn reminded him. he bobbed his head side to side, smiling. oh, yes, i said some words, but i swore oaths to the crown too, it seems to me. joffrey's the king now, and that makes you and your boy and all those fools out there no better than rebels. if i had the sense the gods gave a fish, i'd help the lannisters boil you all. why don't you? she challenged him. lord walder snorted with disdain. lord tywin the proud and splendid, warden of the west, hand of the king, oh, what a great man that one is, him and his gold this and gold that and lions here and lions there. i'll wager you, he cats too many beans, he breaks wind just like me, but you'll never hear him admit it, oh, no. what's he got to be so puffed up about anyway? only two sons, and one of them's a twisted little monster. i'll match him son for son, and i'll still have nineteen and a half left when all of his are dead! he cackled. if lord tywin wants my help, he can bloody well ask for it. that was all catelyn needed to hear. i am asking for your help, my lord, she said humbly. and my father and my brother and my lord husband and my sons are asking with my voice. lord walder jabbed a bony finger at her face. save your sweet words, my lady. sweet words i get from my wife. did you see her? sixteen she is, a little flower, and her honey's only for me. i wager she gives me a son by this time next year. perhaps i'll make him heir, wouldn't that boil the rest of them? i'm certain she will give you many sons. his head bobbed up and down. your lord father did not come to the wedding. an insult, as i see it. even if he is dying. he never came to my last wedding either. he calls me the late lord frey, you know. does he think i'm dead? i'm not dead, and i promise you, i'll outlive him as i outlived his father. your family has always pissed on me, don't deny it, don't lie, you know it's true. years ago, i went to your father and suggested a match between his son and my daughter. why not? i had a daughter in mind, sweet girl, only a few years older than edmure, but if your brother didn't warm to her, i had others he might have had, young ones, old ones, virgins, widows, whatever he wanted. no, lord hoster would not hear of it. sweet words he gave me, excuses, but what i wanted was to get rid of a daughter. and your sister, that one, she's full as bad. it was, oh, a year ago, no more, jon arryn was still the king's hand, and i went to the city to see my sons ride in the tourney. stevron and jared are too old for the lists now, but danwell and hosteen rode, perwyn as well, and a couple of my bastards tried the melee. if i'd known how they'd shame me, i would never have troubled myself to make the journey. why did i need to ride all that way to see hosteen knocked off his horse by that tyrell whelp? i ask you. the boy's half his age, ser daisy they call him, something like that. and danwell was unhorsed by a hedge knight! some days i wonder if those two are truly mine. my third wife was a crakehall, all of the crakehall women are sluts. well, never mind about that, she died before you were born, what do you care? i was speaking of your sister. i proposed that lord and lady arryn foster two of my grandsons at court, and offered to take their own son to ward here at the twins. are my grandsons unworthy to be seen at the king's court? they are sweet boys, quiet and mannerly. walder is merrett's son, named after me, and the other one... heh, i don't recall... he might have been another walder, they're always naming them walder so i'll favor them, but his father... which one was his father now? his face wrinkled up. well, whoever he was, lord arryn wouldn't have him, or the other one, and i blame your lady sister for that. she frosted up as if i'd suggested selling her boy to a mummer's show or making a eunuch out of him, and when lord arryn said the child was going to dragonstone to foster with stannis baratheon, she stormed off without a word of regrets and all the hand could give me was apologies. what good are apologies? i ask you. catelyn frowned, disquieted. i had understood that lysa's boy was to be fostered with lord tywin at casterly rock. no, it was lord stannis, walder frey said irritably. do you think i can't tell lord stannis from lord tywin? they're both bungholes who think they're too noble to shit, but never mind about that, i know the difference. or do you think i'm so old i can't remember? i'm ninety and i remember very well. i remember what to do with a woman too. that wife of mine will give me a son before this time next year, i'll wager. or a daughter, that can't be helped. boy or girl, it will be red, wrinkled, and squalling, and like as not she'll want to name it walder or walda. catelyn was not concerned with what lady frey might choose to name her child. jon arryn was going to foster his son with lord stannis, you are quite certain of that? yes, yes, yes, the old man said. only he died, so what does it matter? you say you want to cross the river? we do.,' well, you can't! lord walder announced crisply. not unless i allow it, and why should i? the tullys and the starks have never been friends of mine. he pushed himself back in his chair and crossed his arms, smirking, waiting for her answer. the rest was only haggling. a swollen red sun hung low against the western hills when the gates of the castle opened. the drawbridge creaked down, the portcullis winched up, and lady catelyn stark rode forth to rejoin her son and his lords bannermen. behind her came ser jared frey, ser hosteen frey, ser danwell frey, and lord walder's bastard son ronel rivers, leading a long column of pikemen, rank on rank of shuffling men in blue steel ringmail and silvery grey cloaks. robb galloped out to meet her, with grey wind racing beside his stallion. it's done, she told him. lord walder will grant you your crossing. his swords are yours as well, less four hundred he means to keep back to hold the twins. i suggest that you leave four hundred of your own, a mixed force of archers and swordsmen. he can scarcely object to an offer to augment his garrison... but make certain you give the command to a man you can trust. lord walder may need help keeping faith. as you say, mother, robb answered, gazing at the ranks of pikemen. perhaps... ser helman tallhart, do you think? a fine choice. what... what did he want of us? if you can spare a few of your swords, i need some men to escort two of lord frey's grandsons north to winterfell, she told him. i have agreed to take them as wards. they are young boys, aged eight years and seven. it would seem they are both named walder. your brother bran will welcome the companionship of lads near his own age, i should think. is that all? two fosterlings? that's a small enough price to- lord frey's son olyvar will be coming with us, she went on. he is to serve as your personal squire. his father would like to see him knighted, in good time. a squire. he shrugged. fine, that's fine, if he's- also, if your sister arya is returned to us safely, it is agreed that she will marry lord walder's youngest son, elmar, when the two of them come of age. robb looked nonplussed. arya won't like that one bit. and you are to wed one of his daughters, once the fighting is done, she finished. his lordship has graciously consented to allow you to choose whichever girl you prefer. he has a number he thinks might be suitable. to his credit, robb did not flinch. i see. do you consent? can i refuse? not if you wish to cross. i consent, robb said solemnly. he had never seemed more manly to her than he did in that moment. boys might play with swords, but it took a lord to make a marriage pact, knowing what it meant. they crossed at evenfall as a horned moon floated upon the river. the double column wound its way through the gate of the eastern twin like a great steel snake, slithering across the courtyard, into the keep and over the bridge, to issue forth once more from the second castle on the west bank. catelyn rode at the head of the serpent, with her son and her uncle ser brynden and ser stevron frey. behind followed nine tenths of their horse; knights, lancers, freeriders, and mounted bowmen. it took hours for them all to cross. afterward, catelyn would remember the clatter of countless hooves on the drawbridge, the sight of lord walder frey in his litter watching them pass, the glitter of eyes peering down through the slats of the murder holes in the ceiling as they rode through the water tower. the larger part of the northern host, pikes and archers and great masses of men-at-arms on foot, remained upon the east bank under the command of roose bolton. robb had commanded him to continue the march south, to confront the huge lannister army coming north under lord tywin. for good or ill, her son had thrown the dice. the woods were full of whispers. moonlight winked on the tumbling waters of the stream below as it wound its rocky way along the floor of the valley. beneath the trees, warhorses whickered softly and pawed at the moist, leafy ground, while men made nervous jests in hushed voices. now and again, she heard the chink of spears, the faint metallic slither of chain mail, but even those sounds were muffled. it should not be long now, my lady, hallis mollen said. he had asked for the honor of protecting her in the battle to come; it was his right, as winterfelps captain of guards, and robb had not refused it to him. she had thirty men around her, charged to keep her unharmed and see her safely home to winterfell if the fighting went against them. robb had wanted fifty; catelyn had insisted that ten would be enough, that he would need every sword for the fight. they made their peace at thirty, neither happy with it. it will come when it comes, catelyn told him. when it came, she knew it would mean death. hal's death perhaps... or hers, or robb's. no one was safe. no life was certain. catelyn was content to wait, to listen to the whispers in the woods and the faint music of the brook, to feel the warm wind in her hair. she was no stranger to waiting, after all. her men had always made her wait. watch for me, little cat, her father would always tell her, when he rode off to court or fair or battle. and she would, standing patiently on the battlements of riverrun as the waters of the red fork and the tumblestone flowed by. he did not always come when he said he would, and days would ofttimes pass as catelyn stood her vigil, peering out between crenels and through arrow loops until she caught a glimpse of lord hoster on his old brown gelding, trotting along the rivershore toward the landing. did you watch for me? he'd ask when he bent to bug her. did you, little cat? brandon stark had bid her wait as well. i shall not be long, my lady, he had vowed. we will be wed on my return. yet when the day came at last, it was his brother eddard who stood beside her in the sept. ned had lingered scarcely a fortnight with his new bride before he too had ridden off to war with promises on his lips. at least he had left her with more than words; he had given her a son. nine moons had waxed and waned, and robb had been born in riverrun while his father still warred in the south. she had brought him forth in blood and pain, not knowing whether ned would ever see him. her son. he had been so small... and now it was for robb that she waited... for robb, and for jaime lannister, the gilded knight who men said had never learned to wait at all. the kingslayer is restless, and quick to anger, her uncle brynden had told robb. and he had wagered their lives and their best hope of victory on the truth of what he said. if robb was frightened, he gave no sign of it. catelyn watched her son as he moved among the men, touching one on the shoulder, sharing a jest with another, helping a third to gentle an anxious horse. his armor clinked softly when he moved. only his head was bare. catelyn watched a breeze stir his auburn hair, so like her own, and wondered when her son had grown so big. fifteen, and near as tall as she was. let him grow taller, she asked the gods. let him know sixteen, and twenty, and fifty. let him grow as tall as his father, and hold his own son in his arms. please, please, please. as she watched him, this tall young man with the new beard and the direwo if prowling at his heels, all she could see was the babe they had laid at her breast at riverrun, so long ago. the night was warm, but the thought of riverrun was enough to make her shiver. where are they? she wondered. could her uncle have been wrong? so much rested on the truth of what he had told them. robb had given the blackfish three hundred picked men, and sent them ahead to screen his march. jaime does not know, ser brynden said when he rode back. i'll stake my life on that. no bird has reached him, my archers have seen to that. we've seen a few of his outriders, but those that saw us did not live to tell of it. he ought to have sent out more. he does not know. how large is his host? her son asked. twelve thousand foot, scattered around the castle in three separate camps, with the rivers between, her uncle said, with the craggy smile she remembered so well. there is no other way to besiege riverrun, yet still, that will be their undoing. two or three thousand horse. the kingslayer has us three to one, said galbart glover. true enough, ser brynden said, yet there is one thing ser jaime lacks. yes? robb asked. patience. their host was greater than it had been when they left the twins. lord jason mallister had brought his power out from seagard to join them as they swept around the headwaters of the blue fork and galloped south, and others had crept forth as well, hedge knights and small lords and master less men-at-arms who had fled north when her brother edmure's army was shattered beneath the walls of riverrun. they had driven their horses as hard as they dared to reach this place before jaime lannister had word of their coming, and now the hour was at hand. catelyn watched her son mount up. olyvar frey held his horse for him, lord walder's son, two years older than robb, and ten years younger and more anxious. he strapped robb's shield in place and handed up his helm. when he lowered it over the face she loved so well, a tall young knight sat on his grey stallion where her son had been. it was dark among the trees, where the moon did not reach. when robb turned his head to look at her, she could see only black inside his visor. i must ride down the line, mother, he told her. father says you should let the men see you before a battle. go, then, she said. let them see you. it will give them courage, robb said. and who will give me courage? she wondered, yet she kept her silence and made herself smile for him. robb turned the big grey stallion and walked him slowly away from her, grey wind shadowing his steps. behind him his battle guard formed up. when he'd forced catelyn to accept her protectors, she had insisted that he be guarded as well, and the lords bannermen had agreed. many of their sons had clamored for the honor of riding with the young wolf, as they had taken to calling him. torrhen karstark and his brother eddard were among his thirty, and patrek mallister, smalljon umber, daryn hornwood, theon greyjoy, no less than five of walder frey's vast brood, along with older men like ser wendel manderly and robin flint. one of his companions was even a woman: dacey mormont, lady maege's eldest daughter and heir to bear island, a lanky sixfooter who had been given a morningstar at an age when most girls were given dolls. some of the other lords muttered about that, but catelyn would not listen to their complaints. this is not about the honor of your houses, she told them. this is about keeping my son alive and whole. and if it comes to that, she wondered, will thiny be enough? will six thousand be enough? a bird called faintly in the distance, a high sharp trill that felt like an icy hand on catelyn' s neck. another bird answered; a third, a fourth. she knew their call well enough, from her years at winterfell. snow shrikes. sometimes you saw them in the deep of winter, when the godswood was white and still. they were northern birds. they are coming, catelyn thought. they're coming, my lady, hal mollen whispered. he was always a man for stating the obvious. gods be with us. she nodded as the woods grew still around them. in the quiet she could hear them, far off yet moving closer; the tread of many horses, the rattle of swords and spears and armor, the murmur of human voices, with here a laugh, and there a curse. eons seemed to come and go. the sounds grew louder. she heard more laughter, a shouted command, splashing as they crossed and recrossed the little stream. a horse snorted. a man swore. and then at last she saw him... only for an instant, framed between the branches of the trees as she looked down at the valley floor, yet she knew it was him. even at a distance, ser jaime lannister was unmistakable. the moonlight had silvered his armor and the gold of his hair, and turned his crimson cloak to black. he was not wearing a helm. he was there and he was gone again, his silvery armor obscured by the trees once more. others came behind him, long columns of them, knights and sworn swords and freeriders, three quarters of the lannister horse. he is no man for sitting in a tent while his carpenters build siege towers, ser brynden had promised. he has ridden out with his knights thrice already, to chase down raiders or storm a stubborn holdfast. nodding, robb had studied the map her uncle had drawn him. ned had taught him to read maps. raid him here, he said, pointing. a few hundred men, no more. tully banners. when he comes after you, we will be waiting-his finger moved an inch to the left-here. here was a hush in the night, moonlight and shadows, a thick carpet of dead leaves underfoot, densely wooded ridges sloping gently down to the streambed, the underbrush thinning as the ground fell away. here was her son on his stallion, glancing back at her one last time and lifting his sword in salute. here was the call of maege mormont's warhorn, a long low blast that rolled down the valley from the east, to tell them that the last of jaime's riders had entered the trap. and grey wind threw back his head and howled. the sound seemed to go right through catelyn stark, and she found herself shivering. it was a terrible sound, a frightening sound, yet there was music in it too. for a second she felt something like pity for the lannisters below. so this is what death sounds like, she thought. haaroooooooooooooooooooooooo came the answer from the far ridge as the greatjon winded his own horn. to east and west, the trumpets of the mallisters and freys blew vengeance. north, where the valley narrowed and bent like a cocked elbow, lord karstark's warhorns added their own deep, mournful voices to the dark chorus. men were shouting and horses rearing in the stream below. the whispering wood let out its breath all at once, as the bowmen robb had hidden in the branches of the trees let fly their arrows and the night erupted with the screams of men and horses. all around her, the riders raised their lances, and the dirt and leaves that had buried the cruet bright points fell away to reveal the gleam of sharpened steel. wintefell! she heard robb shout as the arrows sighed again. he moved away from her at a trot, leading his men downhill. catelyn sat on her horse, unmoving, with hal mollen and her guard around her, and she waited as she had waited before, for brandon and ned and her father. she was high on the ridge, and the trees hid most of what was going on beneath her. a heartbeat, two, four, and suddenly it was as if she and her protectors were alone in the wood. the rest were melted away into the green. yet when she looked across the valley to the far ridge, she saw the greatjon's riders emerge from the darkness beneath the trees. they were in a long line, an endless line, and as they burst from the wood there was an instant, the smallest part of a heartbeat, when all catelyn saw was the moonlight on the points of their lances, as if a thousand willowisps were coming down the ridge, wreathed in silver flame. then she blinked, and they were only men, rushing down to kill or die. afterward, she could not claim she had seen the battle. yet she could hear, and the valley rang with echoes. the crack of a broken lance, the clash of swords, the cries of lannister and winterfell and tully! riverrun and tully! when she realized there was no more to see, she closed her eyes and listened. the battle came alive around her. she heard hoofbeats, iron boots splashing in shallow water, the woody sound of swords on oaken shields and the scrape of steel against steel, the hiss of arrows, the thunder of drums, the terrified screaming of a thousand horses. men shouted curses and begged for mercy, and got it (or not), and lived (or died). the ridges seemed to play queer tricks with sound. once she heard robb's voice, as clear as if he'd been standing at her side, calling, to me! to me! and she heard his direwolf, snarling and growling, heard the snap of those long teeth, the tearing of flesh, shrieks of fear and pain from man and horse alike. was there only one wolf? it was hard to be certain. little by little, the sounds dwindled and died, until at last there was only the wolf. as a red dawn broke in the east, grey wind began to howl again. robb came back to her on a different horse, riding a piebald gelding in the place of the grey stallion he had taken down into the valley. the wolfs head on his shield was slashed half to pieces, raw wood showing where deep gouges had been hacked in the oak, but robb himself seemed unhurt. yet when he came closer, catelyn saw that his mailed glove and the sleeve of his surcoat were black with blood. you're hurt, she said. robb lifted his hand, opened and closed his fingers. no, he said. this is... torrhen's blood, perhaps, or he shook his head. i do not know. a mob of men followed him up the slope, dirty and dented and grinning, with theon and the greatjon at their head. between them they dragged ser jaime lannister. they threw him down in front of her horse. the kingslayer, hal announced, unnecessarily. lannister raised his head. lady stark, he said from his knees. blood ran down one cheek from a gash across his scalp, but the pale light of dawn had put the glint of gold back in his hair. i would offer you my sword, but i seem to have mislaid it. it is not your sword i want, ser, she told him. give me my father and my brother edmure. give me my daughters. give me my lord husband.  i have mislaid them as well, i fear. a pity, catelyn said coldly. kill him, robb, theon greyjoy urged. take his head off. no, her son answered, peeling off his bloody glove. he's more use alive than dead. and my lord father never condoned the murder of prisoners after a battle. a wise man, jaime lannister said, and honorable. take him away and put him in irons, catelyn said. do as my lady mother says, robb commanded, and make certain there's a strong guard around him. lord karstark will want his head on a pike. that he will, the greatjon agreed, gesturing. lannister was led away to be bandaged and chained. why should lord karstark want him dead? catelyn asked. robb looked away into the woods, with the same brooding look that ned often got. he... he killed them... lord karstark's sons, galbart glover explained. both of them, said robb. torrhen and eddard. and daryn hornwood as well. no one can fault lannister on his courage, glover said. when he saw that he was lost, he rallied his retainers and fought his way up the valley, hoping to reach lord robb and cut him down. and almost did. he mislaid his sword in eddard karstark's neck, after he took torrhen's hand off and split daryn hornwood's skull open, robb said. all the time he was shouting for me. if they hadn't tried to stop him- -i should then be mourning in place of lord karstark, catelyn said. your men did what they were sworn to do, robb. they died protecting their liege lord. grieve for them. honor them for their valor. but not now. you have no time for grief. you may have lopped the head off the snake, but three quarters of the body is still coiled around my father's castle. we have won a battle, not a war. but such a battle! said theon greyjoy eagerly. my lady, the realm has not seen such a victory since the field of fire. i vow, the lannisters lost ten men for every one of ours that fell. we've taken close to a hundred knights captive, and a dozen lords bannermen. lord westerling, lord bane fort, ser garth greenfield, lord estren, ser tytos brax, mallor the dornishman... and three lannisters besides jaime, lord tywin's own nephews, two of his sister's sons and one of his dead brother's... and lord tywin? catelyn interrupted. have you perchance taken lord tywin, theon? no, greyjoy answered, brought up short. until you do, this war is far from done. robb raised his head and pushed his hair back out of his eyes. my mother is right. we still have riverrun. it seemed a thousand years ago that catelyn stark had carried her infant son out of riverrun, crossing the tumblestone in a small boat to begin their journey north to winterfell. and it was across the tumblestone that they came home now, though the boy wore plate and mail in place of swaddling clothes. robb sat in the bow with grey wind, his hand resting on his direwolf s head as the rowers pulled at their oars. theon greyjoy was with him. her uncle brynden would come behind in the second boat, with the greatjon and lord karstark. catelyn took a place toward the stern. they shot down the tumblestone, letting the strong current push them past the looming wheel tower. the splash and rumble of the great waterwheel within was a sound from her girlhood that brought a sad smile to catelyn' s face. from the sandstone walls of the castle, soldiers and servants shouted down her name, and robb's, and winterfell! from every rampart waved the banner of house tully: a leaping trout, silver, against a rippling blue-and-red field. it was a stirring sight, yet it did not lift her heart. she wondered if indeed her heart would ever lift again. oh, ned... below the wheel tower, they made a wide turn and knifed through the churning water. the men put their backs into it. the wide arch of the water gate came into view, and she heard the creak of heavy chains as the great iron portcullis was winched upward. it rose slowly as they approached, and catelyn saw that the lower half of it was red with rust. the bottom foot dripped brown mud on them as they passed underneath, the barbed spikes mere inches above their heads. catelyn gazed up at the bars and wondered how deep the rust went and how well the portcullis would stand up to a ram and whether it ought to be replaced. thoughts like that were seldom far from her mind these days. they passed beneath the arch and under the walls, moving from sunlight to shadow and back into sunlight. boats large and small were tied up all around them, secured to iron rings set in the stone. her father's guards waited on the water stair with her brother. ser edmure tully was a stocky young man with a shaggy head of auburn hair and a fiery beard. his breastplate was scratched and dented from battle, his blue-and-red cloak stained by blood and smoke. at his side stood the lord hos blackwood, a hard pike of a man with close-cropped salt-and-pepper whiskers and a hook nose. his bright yellow armor was inlaid with jet in elaborate vine-and-leaf patterns, and a cloak sewn from raven feathers draped his thin shoulders. it had been lord hos who led the sortie that plucked her brother from the lannister camp. bring them in, ser edmure commanded. three men scrambled down the stairs knee-deep in the water and pulled the boat close with long hooks. when grey wind bounded out, one of them dropped his pole and lurched back, stumbling and sitting down abruptly in the river. the others laughed, and the man got a sheepish look on his face. theon greyjoy vaulted over the side of the boat and lifted catelyn by the waist, setting her on a dry step above him as water lapped around his boots. edmure came down the steps to embrace her. sweet sister, he murmured hoarsely. he had deep blue eyes and a mouth made for smiles, but he was not smiling now. he looked worn and tired, battered by battle and haggard from strain. his neck was bandaged where he had taken a wound. catelyn hugged him fiercely. your grief is mine, cat, he said when they broke apart. when we heard about lord eddard... the lannisters will pay, i swear it, you will have your vengeance. will that bring ned back to me? she said sharply. the wound was still too fresh for softer words. she could not think about ned now. she would not. it would not do. she had to be strong. all that will keep. i must see father. he awaits you in his solar, edmure said. lord hoster is bedridden, my lady, her father's steward explained. when had that good man grown so old and grey? he instructed me to bring you to him at once. i'll take her. edmure escorted her up the water stair and across the lower bailey, where petyr baelish and brandon stark had once crossed swords for her favor. the massive sandstone walls of the keep loomed above them. as they pushed through a door between two guardsmen in fish- crest helms, she asked, how bad is he? dreading the answer even as she said the words. edmure's look was somber. he will not be with us long, the maesters say. the pain is... constant, and grievous. a blind rage filled her, a rage at all the world; at her brother edmure and her sister lysa, at the lannisters, at the maesters, at ned and her father and the monstrous gods who would take them both away from her. you should have told me, she said. you should have sent word as soon as you knew. he forbade it. he did not want his enemies to know that he was dying. with the realm so troubled, he feared that if the lannisters suspected how frail he was... ... they might attack? catelyn finished, hard. it was your doing, yours, a voice whispered inside her. if you had not taken it upon yourself to seize the dwarf... they climbed the spiral stair in silence. the keep was three-sided, like riverrun itself, and lord hoster's solar was triangular as well, with a stone balcony that jutted out to the east like the prow of some great sandstone ship. from there the lord of the castle could look down on his walls and battlements, and beyond, to where the waters met. they had moved her father's bed out onto the balcony. he likes to sit in the sun and watch the rivers, edmure explained. father, see who i've brought. cat has come to see you...  hoster tully had always been a big man; tall and broad in his youth, portly as he grew older. now he seemed shrunken, the muscle and meat melted off his bones. even his face sagged. the last time catelyn had seen him, his hair and beard had been brown, well streaked with grey. now they had gone white as snow. his eyes opened to the sound of edmure's voice. little cat, he murmured in a voice thin and wispy and wracked by pain. my little cat. a tremulous smile touched his face as his hand groped for hers. i watched for you... i shall leave you to talk, her brother said, kissing their lord father gently on the brow before he withdrew. catelyn knelt and took her father's hand in hers. it was a big hand, but fleshless now, the bones moving loosely under the skin, all the strength gone from it. you should have told me, she said. a rider, a raven... riders are taken, questioned, he answered. ravens are brought down... a spasm of pain took him, and his fingers clutched hers hard. the crabs are in my belly... pinching, always pinching. day and night. they have fierce claws, the crabs. maester vyman makes me dreamwine, milk of the poppy... i sleep a lot... but i wanted to be awake to see you, when you came. i was afraid... when the lannisters took your brother, the camps all around us... was afraid i would go, before i could see you again... i was afraid... i'm here, father, she said. with robb, my son. he'll want to see you too. your boy, he whispered. he had my eyes, i remember. he did, and does. and we've brought you jaime lannister, in irons. riverrun is free again, father. lord hoster smiled. i saw. last night, when it began, i told them... had to see. they carried me to the gatehouse... watched from the battlements. ah, that was beautiful... the torches came in a wave, i could hear the cries floating across the river . .'. sweet cries... when that siege tower went up, gods... would have died then, and glad, if only i could have seen you children first. was it your boy who did it? was it your robb? yes, catelyn said, fiercely proud. it was robb... and brynden. your brother is here as well, my lord. him. her father's voice was a faint whisper. the blackfish... came back? from the vale? yes... and lysa? a cool wind moved through his thin white hair. gods be good, your sister... did she come as well? he sounded so full of hope and yearning that it was hard to tell the truth. no. i'm sorry... oh. his face fell, and some light went out of his eyes. i'd hoped i would have liked to see her, before. she's with her son, in the eyrie. lord hoster gave a weary nod. lord robert now, poor arryn's gone... i remember... why did she not come with you? she is frightened, my lord. in the eyrie she feels safe. she kissed his wrinkled brow. robb will be waiting. will you see him? and brynden? your son, he whispered. yes. cat's child... he had my eyes, i remember. when he was born. bring him... yes. and your brother? her father glanced out over the rivers. blackfish, he said. has he wed yet? taken some... girl to wife? even on his deathbed, catelyn thought sadly. he has not wed. you know that, father. nor will he ever. i told him... commanded him. marry! i was his lord. he knows. my right, to make his match. a good match. a redwyne. old house. sweet girl, pretty... freckles... bethany, yes. poor child. still waiting. yes. still... bethany redwyne wed lord rowan years ago, catelyn reminded him. she has three children by him. even so, lord hoster muttered. even so. spit on the girl. the redwynes. spit on me. his lord, his brother... that blackfish. i had other offers. lord bracken's girl. walder frey... any of three, he said... has he wed? anyone? anyone? no one, catelyn said, yet he has come many leagues to see you, fighting his way back to riverrun. i would not be here now, if ser brynden had not helped us. he was ever a warrior, her father husked. that he could do. knight of the gate, yes. he leaned back and closed his eyes, inutterably weary. send him. later. i'll sleep now. too sick to fight. send him up later, the blackfish... catelyn kissed him gently, smoothed his hair, and left him there in the shade of his keep, with his rivers flowing beneath. he was asleep before she left the solar. when she returned to the lower bailey, ser brynden tully stood on the water stairs with wet boots, talking with the captain of riverrun's guards. he came to her at once. is he? dying, she said. as we feared. her uncle's craggy face showed his pain plain. he ran his fingers through his thick grey hair. will he see me? she nodded. he says he is too sick to fight. brynden blackfish chuckled. i am too old a soldier to believe that. hoster will be chiding me about the redwyne girl even as we light his funeral pyre, damn his bones. catelyn smiled, knowing it was true. i do not see robb. he went with greyjoy to the hall, i believe. theon greyjoy was seated on a bench in riverrun's great hall, enjoying a horn of ale and regaling her father's garrison with an account of the slaughter in the whispering wood. some tried to flee, but we'd pinched the valley shut at both ends, and we rode out of the darkness with sword and lance. the lannisters must have thought the others themselves were on them when that wolf of robb's got in among them. i saw him tear one man's arm from his shoulder, and their horses went mad at the scent of him. i couldn't tell you how many men were thrown- theon, she interrupted, where might i find my son? lord robb went to visit the godswood, my lady... it was what ned would have done. he is his father's son as much as mine, i must remember. oh, gods, ned... she found robb beneath the green canopy of leaves, surrounded by tall redwoods and great old elms, kneeling before the heart tree, a slender weirwood with a face more sad than fierce. his longsword was before him, the point thrust in the earth, his gloved hands clasped around the hilt. around him others knelt: greatjon umber, rickard karstark, maege mormont, galbart glover, and more. even tytos blackwood was among them, the great raven cloak fanned out behind him. these are the ones who keep the old gods, she realized. she asked herself what gods she kept these days, and could not find an answer. it would not do to disturb them at their prayers. the gods must have their due... even cruel gods who would take ned from her, and her lord father as well. so catelyn waited. the river wind moved through the high branches, and she could see the wheel tower to her right, ivy crawling up its side. as she stood there, all the memories came flooding back to her. her father had taught her to ride amongst these trees, and that was the elm that edmure had fallen from when he broke his arm, and over there, beneath that bower, she and lysa had played at kissing with petyr. she had not thought of that in years. how young they all had been-she no older than sansa, lysa younger than arya, and petyr younger still, yet eager. the girls had traded him between them, serious and giggling by turns. it came back to her so vividly she could almost feel his sweaty fingers on her shoulders and taste the mint on his breath. there was always mint growing in the godswood, and petyr had liked to chew it. he had been such a bold little boy, always in trouble. he tried to put his tongue in my mouth, catelyn had confessed to her sister afterward, when they were alone. he did with me too, lysa had whispered, shy and breathless. i liked it. robb got to his feet slowly and sheathed his sword, and catelyn found herself wondering whether her son had ever kissed a girl in the godswood. surely he must have. she had seen jeyne poole giving him moist-eyed glances, and some of the serving girls, even ones as old as eighteen... he had ridden in battle and killed men with a sword, surely he had been kissed. there were tears in her eyes. she wiped them away angrily. mother, robb said when he saw her standing there. we must call a council. there are things to be decided. your grandfather would like to see you, she said. robb, he's very sick. ser edmure told me. i am sorry, mother... for lord hoster and for you. yet first we must meet. we've had word from the south. renly baratheon has claimed his brother's crown. renly? she said, shocked. i had thought, surely it would be lord stannis... so did we all, my lady, galbart glover said. the war council convened in the great hall, at four long trestle tables arranged in a broken square. lord hoster was too weak to attend, asleep on his balcony, dreaming of the sun on the rivers of his youth. edmure sat in the high seat of the tullys, with brynden blackfish at his side, and his father's bannermen arrayed to right and left and along the side tables. word of the victory at riverrun had spread to the fugitive lords of the trident, drawing them back. karyl vance came in, a lord now, his father dead beneath the golden tooth. ser marq piper was with him, and they brought a darry, ser raymun's son, a lad no older than bran. lord jonos bracken arrived from the ruins of stone hedge, glowering and blustering, and took a seat as far from tytos blackwood as the tables would permit. the northern lords sat opposite, with catelyn and robb facing her brother across the tables. they were fewer. the greatjon sat at robb's left hand, and then theon greyjoy; galbart glover and lady mormont were to the right of catelyn. lord rickard karstark, gaunt and hollow-eyed in his grief, took his seat like a man in a nightmare, his long beard uncombed and unwashed. he had left two sons dead in the whispering wood, and there was no word of the third, his eldest, who had led the karstark spears against tywin lannister on the green fork. the arguing raged on late into the night. each lord had a right to speak, and speak they did... and shout, and curse, and reason, and cajole, and jest, and bargain, and slam tankards on the table, and threaten, and walk out, and return sullen or smiling. catelyn sat and listened to it all. roose bolton had re-formed the battered remnants of their other host at the mouth of the causeway. ser helman tallhart and walder frey still held the twins. lord tywin' s army had crossed the trident, and was making for harrenhal. and there were two kings in the realm. two kings, and no agreement. many of the lords bannermen wanted to march on harrenhal at once, to meet lord tywin and end lannister power for all time. young, hot-tempered marq piper urged a strike west at casterly rock instead. still others counseled patience. riverrun sat athwart the lannister supply lines, jason mallister pointed out; let them bide their time, denying lord tywin fresh levies and provisions while they strengthened their defenses and rested their weary troops. lord blackwood would have none of it. they should finish the work they began in the whispering wood. march to harrenhal and bring roose bolton's army down as well. what blackwood urged, bracken opposed, as ever; lord jonos bracken rose to insist they ought pledge their fealty to king renly, and move south to join their might to his. renly is not the king, robb said. it was the first time her son had spoken. like his father, he knew how to listen. you cannot mean to hold to joffrey, my lord, galbart glover said. he put your father to death. that makes him evil, robb replied. i do not know that it makes renly king. joffrey is still robert's eldest trueborn son, so the throne is rightfully his by all the laws of the realm. were he to die, and i mean to see that he does, he has a younger brother. tommen is next in line after joffrey. tommen is no less a lannister, ser marq piper snapped. as you say, said robb, troubled. yet if neither one is king, still, how could it be lord renly? he's robert's younger brother. bran can't be lord of winterfell before me, and renly can't be king before lord stannis. lady mormont agreed. lord stannis has the better claim. renly is crowned, said marq piper. highgarden and storm's end support his claim, and the dornishmen will not be laggardly. if winterfell and riverrun add their strength to his, he will have five of the seven great houses behind him. six, if the arryns bestir themselves! six against the rock! my lords, within the year, we will have all their heads on pikes, the queen and the boy king, lord tywin, the imp, the kingslayer, ser kevan, all of them! that is what we shall win if we join with king renly. what does lord stannis have against that, that we should cast it all aside? the right, said robb stubbornly. catelyn thought he sounded eerily like his father as he said it. so you mean us to declare for stannis? asked edmure. i don't know, said robb. i prayed to know what to do, but the gods did not answer. the lannisters killed my father for a traitor, and we know that was a lie, but if joffrey is the lawful king and we fight against him, we will be traitors. my lord father would urge caution, aged ser stevron said, with the weaselly smile of a frey. wait, let these two kings play their game of thrones. when they are done fighting, we can bend our knees to the victor, or oppose him, as we choose. with renly arming, likely lord tywin would welcome a truce... and the safe return of his son. noble lords, allow me to go to him at harrenhal and arrange good terms and ransoms... a roar of outrage drowned out his voice. craven! the greatjon thundered. begging for a truce will make us seem weak, declared lady mormont. ransoms be damned, we must not give up the kingslayer, shouted rickard karstark. why not a peace? catelyn asked. the lords looked at her, but it was robb's eyes she felt, his and his alone. my lady, they murdered my lord father, your husband, he said grimly. he unsheathed his longsword and laid it on the table before him, the bright steel on the rough wood. this is the only peace i have for lannisters. the greatjon bellowed his approval, and other men added their voices, shouting and drawing swords and pounding their fists on the table. catelyn waited until they had quieted. my lords, she said then, lord eddard was your liege, but i shared his bed and bore his children. do you think i love him any less than you? her voice almost broke with her grief, but catelyn took a long breath and steadied herself. robb, if that sword could bring him back, i should never let you sheathe it until ned stood at my side once more... but he is gone, and hundred whispering woods will not change that. ned is gone, and daryn hornwood, and lord karstark's valiant sons, and many other good men besides, and none of them will return to us. must we have more deaths still? you are a woman, my lady, the greatjon rumbled in his deep voice. women do not understand these things. you are the gentle sex, said lord karstark, with the lines of grief fresh on his face. a man has a need for vengeance. give me cersei lannister, lord karstark, and you would see how gentle a woman can be, catelyn replied. perhaps i do not understand tactics and strategy... but i understand futility. we went to war when lannister armies were ravaging the riverlands, and ned was a prisoner, falsely accused of treason. we fought to defend ourselves, and to win my lord's freedom. well, the one is done, and the other forever beyond our reach. i will mourn for ned until the end of my days, but i must think of the living. i want my daughters back, and the queen holds them still. if i must trade our four lannisters for their two starks, i will call that a bargain and thank the gods. i want you safe, robb, ruling at winterfell from your father's seat. i want you to live your life, to kiss a girl and wed a woman and father a son. i want to write an end to this. i want to go home, my lords, and weep for my husband. the hall was very quiet when catelyn finished speaking. peace, said her uncle brynden. peace is sweet, my lady... but on what terms? it is no good hammering your sword into a plowshare if you must forge it again on the morrow. what did torrhen and my eddard die for, if i am to return to karhold with nothing but their bones? asked rickard karstark. aye, said lord bracken. gregor clegane laid waste to my fields, slaughtered my smallfolk, and left stone hedge a smoking ruin. am i now to bend the knee to the ones who sent him? what have we fought for, if we are to put all back as it was before? lord blackwood agreed, to catelyn' s surprise and dismay. and if we do make peace with king joffrey, are we not then traitors to king renly? what if the stag should prevail against the lion, where would that leave us? whatever you may decide for yourselves, i shall never call a lannister my king, declared marq piper. nor i yelled the little darry boy. i never will! again the shouting began. catelyn sat despairing. she had come so close, she thought. they had almost listened, almost... but the moment was gone. there would be no peace, no chance to heal, no safety. she looked at her son, watched him as he listened to the lords debate, frowning, troubled, yet wedded to his war. he had pledged himself to marry a daughter of walder frey, but she saw his true bride plain before her now: the sword he had laid on the table. catelyn was thinking of her girls, wondering if she would ever see them again, when the greatjon lurched to his feet. my lords! he shouted, his voice booming off the rafters. here is what i say to these two kings! he spat. renly baratheon is nothing to me, nor stannis neither. why should they rule over me and mine, from some flowery seat in highgarden or dome? what do they know of the wall or the wolfswood or the barrows of the first men? even their gods are wrong. the others take the lannisters too, i've had a bellyful of them. he reached back over his shoulder and drew his immense two-handed greatsword. why shouldn't we rule ourselves again? it was the dragons we married, and the dragons are all dead! he pointed at robb with the blade. there sits the only king i mean to bow my knee to, m'lords, he thundered. the king in the north! and he knelt, and laid his sword at her son's feet. i'll have peace on those terms, lord karstark said. they can keep their red castle and their iron chair as well. he eased his longsword from its scabbard. the king in the north! he said, kneeling beside the greatjon. maege mormont stood. the king of winter! she declared, and laid her spiked mace beside the swords. and the river lords were rising too, blackwood and bracken and mallister, houses who had never been ruled from winterfell, yet catelyn watched them rise and draw their blades, bending their knees and shouting the old words that had not been heard in the realm for more than three hundred years, since aegon the dragon had come to make the seven kingdoms one. yet now were heard again, ringing from the timbers of her father's hall: the king in the north! the king in the north! the king in the north! 