the visitors poured through the castle gates in a river of gold and silver and polished steel, three hundred strong, a pride of bannermen and knights, of sworn swords and freeriders. over their heads a dozen golden banners whipped back and forth in the northern wind, emblazoned with the crowned stag of baratheon. ned knew many of the riders. there came ser jaime lannister with hair as bright as beaten gold, and there sandor clegane with his terrible burned face. the tall boy beside him could only be the crown prince, and that stunted little man behind them was surely the imp, tyrion lannister. yet the huge man at the head of the column, flanked by two knights in the snow-white cloaks of the kingsguard, seemed almost a stranger to ned... until he vaulted off the back of his warhorse with a familiar roar, and crushed him in a bone-crunching hug. ned! ah, but it is good to see that frozen face of yours. the king looked him over top to bottom, and laughed. you have not changed at all. would that ned had been able to say the same. fifteen years past, when they had ridden forth to win a throne, the lord of storm's end had been clean-shaven, clear-eyed, and muscled like a maiden's fantasy. six and a half feet tall, he towered over lesser men, and when he donned his armor and the great antlered helmet of his house, he became a veritable giant. he'd had a giant's strength too, his weapon of choice a spiked iron warhammer that ned could scarcely lift. in those days, the smell of leather and blood had clung to him like perfume. now it was perfume that clung to him like perfume, and he had a girth to match his height. ned had last seen the king nine years before during balon greyjoy's rebellion, when the stag and the direwolf had joined to end the pretensions of the self-proclaimed king of the iron islands. since the night they had stood side by side in greyjoy's fallen stronghold, where robert had accepted the rebel lord's surrender and ned had taken his son theon as hostage and ward, the king had gained at least eight stone. a beard as coarse and black as iron wire covered his jaw to hide his double chin and the sag of the royal jowls, but nothing could hide his stomach or the dark circles under his eyes. yet robert was ned's king now, and not just a friend, so he said only, your grace. winterfell is yours. by then the others were dismounting as well, and grooms were coming forward for their mounts. robert's queen, cersei lannister, entered on foot with her younger children. the wheelhouse in which they had ridden, a huge double-decked carriage of oiled oak and gilded metal pulled by forty heavy draft horses, was too wide to pass through the castle gate. ned knelt in the snow to kiss the queen's ring, while robert embraced catelyn like a long-lost sister. then the children had been brought forward, introduced, and approved of by both sides. no sooner had those formalities of greeting been completed than the king had said to his host, take me down to your crypt, eddard. i would pay my respects. ned loved him for that, for remembering her still after all these years. he called for a lantern. no other words were needed. the queen had begun to protest. they had been riding since dawn, everyone was tired and cold, surely they should refresh themselves first. the dead would wait. she had said no more than that; robert had looked at her, and her twin brother jaime had taken her quietly by the arm, and she had said no more. they went down to the crypt together, ned and this king he scarcely recognized. the winding stone steps were narrow. ned went first with the lantern. i was starting to think we would never reach winterfell, robert complained as they descended. in the south, the way they talk about my seven kingdoms, a man forgets that your part is as big as the other six combined. i trust you enjoyed the journey, your grace? robert snorted. bogs and forests and fields, and scarcely a decent inn north of the neck. i've never seen such a vast emptiness. where are all your people? likely they were too shy to come out, ned jested. he could feel the chill coming up the stairs, a cold breath from deep within the earth. kings are a rare sight in the north. robert snorted. more likely they were hiding under the snow. snow, ned! the king put one hand on the wall to steady himself as they descended. late summer snows are common enough, ned said. i hope they did not trouble you. they are usually mild. the others take your mild snows, robert swore. what will this place be like in winter? i shudder to think. the winters are hard, ned admitted. but the starks will endure. we always have. you need to come south, robert told him. you need a taste of summer before it flees. in highgarden there are fields of golden roses that stretch away as far as the eye can see. the fruits are so ripe they explode in your mouth-melons, peaches, fireplums, you've never tasted such sweetness. you'll see, i brought you some. even at storm's end, with that good wind off the bay, the days are so hot you can barely move. and you ought to see the towns, ned! flowers everywhere, the markets bursting with food, the summerwines so cheap and so good that you can get drunk just breathing the air. everyone is fat and drunk and rich. he laughed and slapped his own ample stomach a thump. and the girls, ned! he exclaimed, his eyes sparkling. i swear, women lose all modesty in the heat. they swim naked in the river, right beneath the castle. even in the streets, it's too damn hot for wool or fur, so they go around in these short gowns, silk if they have the silver and cotton if not, but it's all the same when they start sweating and the cloth sticks to their skin, they might as well be naked. the king laughed happily. robert baratheon had always been a man of huge appetites, a man who knew how to take his pleasures. that was not a charge anyone could lay at the door of eddard stark. yet ned could not help but notice that those pleasures were taking a toll on the king. robert was breathing heavily by the time they reached the bottom of the stairs, his face red in the lantern light as they stepped out into the darkness of the crypt. your grace, ned said respectfully. he swept the lantern in a wide semicircle. shadows moved and lurched. flickering light touched the stones underfoot and brushed against a long procession of granite pillars that marched ahead, two by two, into the dark. between the pillars, the dead sat on their stone thrones against the walls, backs against the sepulchres that contained their mortal remains. she is down at the end, with father and brandon. he led the way between the pillars and robert followed wordlessly, shivering in the subterranean chill. it was always cold down here. their footsteps rang off the stones and echoed in the vault overhead as they walked among the dead of house stark. the lords of winterfell watched them pass. their likenesses were carved into the stones that sealed the tombs. in long rows they sat, blind eyes staring out into eternal darkness, while great stone direwolves curled round their feet. the shifting shadows made the stone figures seem to stir as the living passed by. by ancient custom an iron longsword had been laid across the lap of each who had been lord of winterfell, to keep the vengeful spirits in their crypts. the oldest had long ago rusted away to nothing, leaving only a few red stains where the metal had rested on stone. ned wondered if that meant those ghosts were free to roam the castle now. he hoped not. the first lords of winterfell had been men hard as the land they ruled. in the centuries before the dragonlords came over the sea, they had sworn allegiance to no man, styling themselves the kings in the north. ned stopped at last and lifted the oil lantern. the crypt continued on into darkness ahead of them, but beyond this point the tombs were empty and unsealed; black holes waiting for their dead, waiting for him and his children. ned did not like to think on that. here, he told his king. robert nodded silently, knelt, and bowed his head. there were three tombs, side by side. lord rickard stark, ned's father, had a long, stern face. the stonemason had known him well. he sat with quiet dignity, stone fingers holding tight to the sword across his lap, but in life all swords had failed him. in two smaller sepulchres on either side were his children. brandon had been twenty when he died, strangled by order of the mad king aerys targaryen only a few short days before he was to wed catelyn tully of riverrun. his father had been forced to watch him die. he was the true heir, the eldest, born to rule. lyanna had only been sixteen, a child- woman of surpassing loveliness. ned had loved her with all his heart. robert had loved her even more. she was to have been his bride. she was more beautiful than that, the king said after a silence. his eyes lingered on lyanna's face, as if he could will her back to life. finally he rose, made awkward by his weight. ah, damn it, ned, did you have to bury her in a place like this? his voice was hoarse with remembered grief. she deserved more than darkness... she was a stark of winterfell, ned said quietly. this is her place. she should be on a hill somewhere, under a fruit tree, with the sun and clouds above her and the rain to wash her clean. i was with her when she died, ned reminded the king. she wanted to come home, to rest beside brandon and father. he could hear her still at times. promise me, she had cried, in a room that smelled of blood and roses. promise me, ned. the fever had taken her strength and her voice had been faint as a whisper, but when he gave her his word, the fear had gone out of his sister's eyes. ned remembered the way she had smiled then, how tightly her fingers had clutched his as she gave up her hold on life, the rose petals spilling from her palm, dead and black. after that he remembered nothing. they had found him still holding her body, silent with grief. the little crannogman, howland reed, had taken her hand from his. ned could recall none of it. i bring her flowers when i can, he said. lyanna was... fond of flowers. the king touched her cheek, his fingers brushing across the rough stone as gently as if it were living flesh. i vowed to kill rhaegar for what he did to her. you did, ned reminded him. only once, robert said bitterly. they had come together at the ford of the trident while the battle crashed around them, robert with his warhammer and his great antlered helm, the targaryen prince armored all in black. on his breastplate was the three-headed dragon of his house, wrought all in rubies that flashed like fire in the sunlight. the waters of the trident ran red around the hooves of their destriers as they circled and clashed, again and again, until at last a crushing blow from robert's hammer stove in the dragon and the chest beneath it. when ned had finally come on the scene, rhaegar lay dead in the stream, while men of both armies scrabbled in the swirling waters for rubies knocked free of his armor. in my dreams, i kill him every night, robert admitted. a thousand deaths will still be less than he deserves. there was nothing ned could say to that. after a quiet, he said, we should return, your grace. your wife will be waiting. the others take my wife, robert muttered sourly, but he started back the way they had come, his footsteps falling heavily. and if i hear'your grace' once more, i'll have your head on a spike. we are more to each other than that. i had not forgotten, ned replied quietly. when the king did not answer, he said, tell me about jon. robert shook his head. i have never seen a man sicken so quickly. we gave a tourney on my son's name day. if you had seen jon then, you would have sworn he would live forever. a fortnight later he was dead. the sickness was like a fire in his gut. it burned right through him. he paused beside a pillar, before the tomb of a long-dead stark. i loved that old man. we both did. ned paused a moment. catelyn fears for her sister. how does lysa bear her grief? robert's mouth gave a bitter twist. not well, in truth, he admitted. i think losing jon has driven the woman mad, ned. she has taken the boy back to the eyrie. against my wishes. i had hoped to foster him with tywin lannister at casterly rock. jon had no brothers, no other sons. was i supposed to leave him to be raised by women? ned would sooner entrust a child to a pit viper than to lord tywin, but he left his doubts unspoken. some old wounds never truly heal, and bleed again at the slightest word. the wife has lost the husband, he said carefully. perhaps-the mother feared to lose the son. the boy is very young. six, and sickly, and lord of the eyrie, gods have mercy, the king swore. lord tywin had never taken a ward before. lysa ought to have been honored. the lannisters are a great and noble house. she refused to even hear of it. then she left in the dead of night, without so much as a by-your-leave. cersei was furious. he sighed deeply. the boy is my namesake, did you know that? robert arryn. i am sworn to protect him. how can i do that if his mother steals him away? i will take him as ward, if you wish, ned said. lysa should consent to that. she and catelyn were close as girls, and she would be welcome here as well. a generous offer, my friend, the king said, but too late. lord tywin has already given his consent. fostering the boy elsewhere would be a grievous affront to him. i have more concern for my nephew's welfare than i do for lannister pride, ned declared. that is because you do not sleep with a lannister. robert laughed, the sound rattling among the tombs and bouncing from the vaulted ceiling. his smile was a flash of white teeth in the thicket of the huge black beard. ah, ned, he said, you are still too serious. he put a massive arm around ned's shoulders. i had planned to wait a few days to speak to you, but i see now there's no need for it. come, walk with me. they started back down between the pillars. blind stone eyes seemed to follow them as they passed. the king kept his arm around ned's shoulder. you must have wondered why i finally came north to winterfell, after so long. ned had his suspicions, but he did not give them voice. for the joy of my company, surely, he said lightly. and there is the wall. you need to see it, your grace, to walk along its battlements and talk to those who man it. the night's watch is a shadow of what it once was. benjen says- no doubt i will hear what your brother says soon enough, robert said. the wall has stood for what, eight thousand years? it can keep a few days more. i have more pressing concerns. these are difficult times. i need good men about me. men like jon arryn. he served as lord of the eyrie, as warden of the east, as the hand of the king. he will not be easy to replace. his son... ned began. his son will succeed to the eyrie and all its incomes, robert said brusquely. no more. that took ned by surprise. he stopped, startled, and turned to look at his king. the words came unbidden. the arryns have always been wardens of the east. the title goes with the domain. perhaps when he comes of age, the honor can be restored to him, robert said. i have this year to think of, and next. a six- year-old boy is no war leader, ned. in peace, the title is only an honor. let the boy keep it. for his father's sake if not his own. surely you owe, jon that much for his service. the king was not pleased. he took his arm from around ned's shoulders. jon's service was the duty he owed his liege lord. i am not ungrateful, ned. you of all men ought to know that. but the son is not the father. a mere boy cannot hold the east. then his tone softened. enough of this. there is a more important office to discuss, and i would not argue with you. robert grasped ned by the elbow. i have need of you, ned. i am yours to command, your grace. always. they were words he had to say, and so he said them, apprehensive about what might come next. robert scarcely seemed to hear him. those years we spent in the eyrie... gods, those were good years. i want you at my side again, ned. i want you down in king's landing, not up here at the end of the world where you are no damned use to anybody. robert looked off into the darkness, for a moment as melancholy as a stark. i swear to you, sitting a throne is a thousand times harder than winning one. laws are a tedious business and counting coppers is worse. and the people... there is no end of them. i sit on that damnable iron chair and listen to them complain until my mind is numb and my ass is raw. they all want something, money or land or justice. the lies they tell... and my lords and ladies are no better. i am surrounded by flatterers and fools. it can drive a man to madness, ned. half of them don't dare tell me the truth, and the other half can't find it. there are nights i wish we had lost at the trident. ah, no, not truly, but...  i understand, ned said softly. robert looked at him. i think you do. if so, you are the only one, my old friend. he smiled. lord eddard stark, i would name you the hand of the king. ned dropped to one knee. the offer did not surprise him; what other reason could robert have had for coming so far? the hand of the king was the second- most powerful man in the seven kingdoms. he spoke with the king's voice, commanded the king's armies, drafted the king's laws. at times he even sat upon the iron throne to dispense king's justice, when the king was absent, or sick, or otherwise indisposed. robert was offering him a responsibility as large as the realm itself. it was the last thing in the world he wanted. your grace, he said. i am not worthy of the honor. robert groaned with good-humored impatience. if i wanted to honor you, i'd let you retire. i am planning to make you run the kingdom and fight the wars while i eat and drink and wench myself into an early grave. he slapped his gut and grinned. you know the saying, about the king and his hand? ned knew the saying. what the king dreams, he said, the hand builds. i bedded a fishmaid once who told me the lowborn have a choicer way to put it. the king eats, they say, and the hand takes the shit. he threw back his head and roared his laughter. the echoes rang through the darkness, and all around them the dead of winterfell seemed to watch with cold and disapproving eyes. finally the laughter dwindled and stopped. ned was still on one knee, his eyes upraised. damn it, ned, the king complained. you might at least humor me with a smile. they say it grows so cold up here in winter that a man's laughter freezes in his throat and chokes him to death, ned said evenly. perhaps that is why the starks have so little humor. come south with me, and i'll teach you how to laugh again, the king promised. you helped me win this damnable throne, now help me hold it. we were meant to rule together. if lyanna had lived, we should have been brothers, bound by blood as well as affection. well, it is not too late. i have a son. you have a daughter. my joff and your sansa shall join our houses, as lyanna and i might once have done. this offer did surprise him. sansa is only eleven. robert waved an impatient hand. old enough for betrothal. the marriage can wait a few years. the king smiled. now stand up and say yes, curse you. nothing would give me greater pleasure, your grace, ned answered. he hesitated. these honors are all so unexpected. may i have some time to consider? i need to tell my wife... yes, yes, of course, tell catelyn, sleep on it if you must. the king reached down, clasped ned by the hand, and pulled him roughly to his feet. just don't keep me waiting too long. i am not the most patient of men. for a moment eddard stark was filled with a terrible sense of foreboding. this was his place, here in the north. he looked at the stone figures all around them, breathed deep in the chill silence of the crypt. he could feel the eyes of the dead. they were all listening, he knew. and winter was coming. the summons came in the hour before the dawn, when the world was still and grey. alyn shook him roughly from his dreams and ned stumbled into the predawn chill, groggy from sleep, to find his horse saddled and the king already mounted. robert wore thick brown gloves and a heavy fur cloak with a hood that covered his ears, and looked for all the world like a bear sitting a horse. up, stark! he roared. up, up! we have matters of state to discuss. by all means, ned said. come inside, your grace. alyn lifted the flap of the tent. no, no, no, robert said. his breath steamed with every word. the camp is full of ears. besides, i want to ride out and taste this country of yours. ser boros and ser meryn waited behind him with a dozen guardsmen, ned saw. there was nothing to do but rub the sleep from his eyes, dress, and mount up. robert set the pace, driving his huge black destrier hard as ned galloped along beside him, trying to keep up. he called out a question as they rode, but the wind blew his words away, and the king did not hear him. after that ned rode in silence. they soon left the kingsroad and took off across rolling plains dark with mist. by then the guard had fallen back a small distance, safely out of earshot, but still robert would not slow. dawn broke as they crested a low ridge, and finally the king pulled up. by then they were miles south of the main party. robert was flushed and exhilarated as ned reined up beside him. gods, he swore, laughing, it feels good to get out and tide the way a man was meant to ride! i swear, ned, this creeping along is enough to drive a man mad. he had never been a patient man, robert baratheon. that damnable wheelhouse, the way it creaks and groans, climbing every burnp in the road as if it were a mountain... i promise you, if that wretched thing breaks another axle, i'm going to burn it, and cersei can walk! ned laughed. i will gladly light the torch for you. good man! the king clapped him on the shoulder. i've half a mind to leave them all behind and just keep going. a smile touched ned's lips. i do believe you mean it. i do, i do, the king said. what do you say, ned? just you and me, two vagabond knights on the kingsroad, our swords at our sides and the gods know what in front of us, and maybe a farmer's daughter or a tavern wench to warm our beds tonight. would that we could, ned said, but we have duties now, my liege... to the realm, to our children, i to my lady wife and you to your queen. we are not the boys we were. you were never the boy you were, robert grumbled. more's the pity. and yet there was that one time... what was her name, that common girl of yours? becca? no, she was one of mine, gods love her, black hair and these sweet big eyes, you could drown in them. yours was... aleena? no. you told me once. was it merryl? you know the one i mean, your bastard's mother? her name was wylla, ned replied with cool courtesy, and i would sooner not speak of her. wylla. yes. the king grinned. she must have been a rare wench if she could make lord eddard stark forget his honor, even for an hour. you never told me what she looked like... ned's mouth tightened in anger. nor will i. leave it be, robert, for the love you say you bear me. i dishonored myself and i dishonored catelyn, in the sight of gods and men. gods have mercy, you scarcely knew catelyn. i had taken her to wife. she was carrying my child. you are too hard on yourself, ned. you always were. damn it, no woman wants baelor the blessed in her bed. he slapped a hand on his knee. well, i'll not press you if you feel so strong about it, though i swear, at times you're so prickly you ought to take the hedgehog as your sigil. the rising sun sent fingers of light through the pale white mists of dawn. a wide plain spread out beneath them, bare and brown, its flatness here and there relieved by long, low hummocks. ned pointed them out to his king. the barrows of the first men. robert frowned. have we ridden onto a graveyard? there are barrows everywhere in the north, your grace, ned told him. this land is old. and cold, robert grumbled, pulling his cloak more tightly around himself. the guard had reined up well behind them, at the bottom of the ridge. well, i did not bring you out here to talk of graves or bicker about your bastard. there was a rider in the night, from lord varys in king's landing. here. the king pulled a paper from his belt and handed it to ned. varys the eunuch was the king's master of whisperers. he served robert now as he had once served aerys targaryen. ned unrolled the paper with trepidation, thinking of lysa and her terrible accusation, but the message did not concern lady arryn. what is the source for this information? do you remember ser jorah mormont? would that i might forget him, ned said bluntly. the mormonts of bear island were an old house, proud and honorable, but their lands were cold and distant and poor. ser jorah had tried to swell the family coffers by selling some poachers to a tyroshi slaver. as the mormonts were bannermen to the starks, his crime had dishonored the north. ned had made the long journey west to bear island, only to find when he arrived that jorah had taken ship beyond the reach of ice and the king's justice. five years had passed since then. ser jorah is now in pentos, anxious to earn a royal pardon that would allow him to return from exile, robert explained. lord varys makes good use of him. so the slaver has become a spy, ned said with distaste. he handed the letter back. i would rather he become a corpse. varys tells me that spies are more useful than corpses, robert said. jorah aside, what do you make of his report? daenerys targaryen has wed some dothraki horselord. what of it? shall we send her a wedding gift? the king frowned. a knife, perhaps. a good sharp one, and a bold man to wield it. ned did not feign surprise; robert's hatred of the targaryens was a madness in him. he remembered the angry words they had exchanged when tywin lannister had presented robert with the corpses of rhaegar's wife and children as a token of fealty. ned had named that murder; robert called it war. when he had protested that the young prince and princess were no more than babes, his new-made king had replied, i see no babes. only dragonspawn. not even jon arryn had been able to calm that storm. eddard stark had ridden out that very day in a cold rage, to fight the last battles of the war alone in the south. it had taken another death to reconcile them; lyanna's death, and the grief they had shared over her passing. this time, ned resolved to keep his temper. your grace, the girl is scarcely more than a child. you are no tywin lannister, to slaughter innocents. it was said that rhaegar's little girl had cried as they dragged her from beneath her bed to face the swords. the boy had been no more than a babe in arms, yet lord tywin's soldiers had torn him from his mother's breast and dashed his head against a wall. and how long will this one remain an innocent? robert's mouth grew hard. this child will soon enough spread her legs and start breeding more dragonspawn to plague me. nonetheless, ned said, the murder of children... it would be vile... unspeakable... unspeakable? the king roared. what aerys did to your brother brandon was unspeakable. the way your lord father died, that was unspeakable. and rhaegar... how many times do you think he raped your sister? how many hundreds of times? his voice had grown so loud that his horse whinnied nervously beneath him. the king jerked the reins hard, quieting the animal, and pointed an angry finger at ned. i will kill every targaryen i can get my hands on, until they are as dead as their dragons, and then i will piss on their graves. ned knew better than to defy him when the wrath was on him. if the years had not quenched robert's thirst for revenge, no words of his would help. you can't get your hands on this one, can you? he said quietly. the king's mouth twisted in a bitter grimace. no, gods be cursed. some pox-ridden pentoshi cheesemonger had her brother and her walled up on his estate with pointy-hatted eunuchs all around them, and now he's handed them over to the dothraki. i should have had them both killed years ago, when it was easy to get at them, but jon was as bad as you. more fool i, i listened to him. jon arryn was a wise man and a good hand. robert snorted. the anger was leaving him as suddenly as it had come. this khal drogo is said to have a hundred thousand men in his horde. what would jon say to that? he would say that even a million dothraki are no threat to the realm, so long as they remain on the other side of the narrow sea, ned replied calmly. the barbarians have no ships. they hate and fear the open sea. the king shifted uncomfortably in his saddle. perhaps. there are ships to be had in the free cities, though. i tell you, ned, i do not like this marriage. there are still those in the seven kingdoms who call me usurper. do you forget how many houses fought for targaryen in the war? they bide their time for now, but give them half a chance, they will murder me in my bed, and my sons with me. if the beggar king crosses with a dothraki horde at his back, the traitors will join him. he will not cross, ned promised. and if by some mischance he does, we will throw him back into the sea. once you choose a new warden of the east- the king groaned. for the last time, i will not name the arryn boy warden. i know the boy is your nephew, but with targaryens climbing in bed with dothraki, i would be mad to rest one quarter of the realm on the shoulders of a sickly child. ned was ready for that. yet we still must have a warden of the east. if robert arryn will not do, name one of your brothers. stannis proved himself at the siege of storm's end, surely. he let the name hang there for a moment. the king frowned and said nothing. he looked uncomfortable. that is, ned finished quietly, watching, unless you have already promised the honor to another. for a moment robert had the grace to look startled. just as quickly, the look became annoyance. what if i have? it's jaime lannister, is it not? robert kicked his horse back into motion and started down the ridge toward the barrows. ned kept pace with him. the king rode on, eyes straight ahead. yes, he said at last. a single hard word to end the matter. kingslayer, ned said. the rumors were true, then. he rode on dangerous ground now, he knew. an able and courageous man, no doubt, he said carefully, but his father is warden of the west, robert. in time ser jaime will succeed to that honor. no one man should hold both east and west. he left unsaid his real concern; that the appointment would put half the armies of the realm into the hands of lannisters. i will fight that battle when the enemy appears on the field, the king said stubbornly. at the moment, lord tywin looms eternal as casterly rock, so i doubt that jaime will be succeeding anytime soon. don't vex me about this, ned, the stone has been set. your grace, may i speak frankly? i seem unable to stop you, robert grumbled. they rode through tall brown grasses. can you trust jaime lannister? he is my wife's twin, a sworn brother of the kingsguard, his life and fortune and honor all bound to mine. as they were bound to aerys targaryen's, ned pointed out. why should i mistrust him? he has done everything i have ever asked of him. his sword helped win the throne i sit on. his sword helped taint the throne you sit on, ned thought, but he did not permit the words to pass his lips. he swore a vow to protect his king's life with his own. then he opened that king's throat with a sword. seven hells, someone had to kill aerys! robert said, reining his mount to a sudden halt beside an ancient barrow. if jaime hadn't done it, it would have been left for you or me. we were not sworn brothers of the kingsguard, ned said. the time had come for robert to hear the whole truth, he decided then and there. do you remember the trident, your grace? i won my crown there. how should i forget it? you took a wound from rhaegar, ned reminded him. so when the targaryen host broke and ran, you gave the pursuit into my hands. the remnants of rhaegar's army fled back to king's landing. we followed. aerys was in the red keep with several thousand loyalists. i expected to find the gates closed to us. robert gave an impatient shake of his head. instead you found that our men had already taken the city. what of it? not our men, ned said patiently. lannister men. the lion of lannister flew over the ramparts, not the crowned stag. and they had taken the city by treachery. the war had raged for close to a year. lords great and small had flocked to robert's banners; others had remained loyal to targaryen. the mighty lannisters of casterly rock, the wardens of the west, had remained aloof from the struggle, ignoring calls to arms from both rebels and royalists. aerys targaryen must have thought that his gods had answered his prayers when lord tywin lannister appeared before the gates of king's landing with an army twelve thousand strong, professing loyalty. so the mad king had ordered his last mad act. he had opened his city to the lions at the gate. treachery was a coin the targaryens knew well, robert said. the anger was building in him again. lannister paid them back in kind. it was no less than they deserved. i shall not trouble my sleep over it. you were not there, ned said, bitterness in his voice. troubled sleep was no stranger to him. he had lived his lies for fourteen years, yet they still haunted him at night. there was no honor in that conquest. the others take your honor! robert swore. what did any targaryen ever know of honor? go down into your crypt and ask lyanna about the dragon's honor! you avenged lyanna at the trident, ned said, halting beside the king. promise me, ned, she had whispered. that did not bring her back. robert looked away, off into the grey distance. the gods be damned. it was a hollow victory they gave me. a crown... it was the girl i prayed them for. your sister, safe... and mine again, as she was meant to be. i ask you, ned, what good is it to wear a crown? the gods mock the prayers of kings and cowherds alike. i cannot answer for the gods, your grace... only for what i found when i rode into the throne room that day, ned said. aerys was dead on the floor, drowned in his own blood. his dragon skulls stared down from the walls. lannister's men were everywhere. jaime wore the white cloak of the kingsguard over his golden armor. i can see him still. even his sword was gilded. he was seated on the iron throne, high above his knights, wearing a helm fashioned in the shape of a lion's head. how he glittered! this is well known, the king complained. i was still mounted. i rode the length of the hall in silence, between the long rows of dragon skulls. it felt as though they were watching me, somehow. i stopped in front of the throne, looking up at him. his golden sword was across his legs, its edge red with a king's blood. my men were filling the room behind me. lannister's men drew back. i never said a word. i looked at him seated there on the throne, and i waited. at last jaime laughed and got up. he took off his helm, and he said to me,'have no fear, stark. i was only keeping it warm for our friend robert. it's not a very comfortable seat, i'm afraid.'  the king threw back his head and roared. his laughter startled a flight of crows from the tall brown grass. they took to the air in a wild beating of wings. you think i should mistrust lannister because he sat on my throne for a few moments? he shook with laughter again. jaime was all of seventeen, ned. scarce more than a boy. boy or man, he had no right to that throne. perhaps he was tired, robert suggested. killing kings is weary work. gods know, there's no place else to rest your ass in that damnable room. and he spoke truly, it is a monstrous uncomfortable chair. in more ways than one. the king shook his head. well, now i know jaime's dark sin, and the matter can be forgotten. i am heartily sick of secrets and squabbles and matters of state, ned. it's all as tedious as counting coppers. come, let's ride, you used to know how. i want to feel the wind in my hair again. he kicked his horse back into motion and galloped up over the barrow, raining earth down behind him. for a moment ned did not follow. he had run out of words, and he was filled with a vast sense of helplessness. not for the first time, he wondered what he was doing here and why he had come. he was no jon arryn, to curb the wildness of his king and teach him wisdom. robert would do what he pleased, as he always had, and nothing ned could say or do would change that. he belonged in winterfell. he belonged with catelyn in her grief, and with bran. a man could not always be where he belonged, though. resigned, eddard stark put his boots into his horse and set off after the king. they've found her, my lord. ned rose quickly. our men or lannister's? it was jory, his steward vayon poole replied. she's not been harmed. thank the gods, ned said. his men had been searching for arya for four days now, but the queen's men had been out hunting as well. where is she? tell jory to bring her here at once. i am sorry, my lord, poole told him. the guards on the gate were lannister men, and they informed the queen when jory brought her in. she's being taken directly before the king... damn that woman! ned said, striding to the door. find sansa and bring her to the audience chamber. her voice may be needed. he descended the tower steps in a red rage. he had led searches himself for the first three days, and had scarcely slept an hour since arya had disappeared. this morning he had been so heartsick and weary he could scarcely stand, but now his fury was on him, filling him with strength. men called out to him as he crossed the castle yard, but ned ignored them in his haste. he would have run, but he was still the king's hand, and a hand must keep his dignity. he was aware of the eyes that followed him, of the muttered voices wondering what he would do. the castle was a modest holding a half day's ride south of the trident. the royal party had made themselves the uninvited guests of its lord, ser raymun darry, while the hunt for arya and the butcher's boy was conducted on both sides of the river. they were not welcome visitors. ser raymun lived under the king's peace, but his family had fought beneath rhaegar's dragon banners at the trident, and his three older brothers had died there, a truth neither robert nor ser raymun had forgotten. with king's men, darry men, lannister men, and stark men all crammed into a castle far too small for them, tensions burned hot and heavy. the king had appropriated ser raymun's audience chamber, and that was where ned found them. the room was crowded when he burst in. too crowded, he thought; left alone, he and robert might have been able to settle the matter amicably. robert was slumped in darry' s high seat at the far end of the room, his face closed and sullen. cersei lannister and her son stood beside him. the queen had her hand on joffrey's shoulder. thick silken bandages still covered the boy's arm. arya stood in the center of the room, alone but for jory cassel, every eye upon her. arya, ned called loudly. he went to her, his boots ringing on the stone floor. when she saw him, she cried out and began to sob. ned went to one knee and took her in his arms. she was shaking. i'm sorry, she sobbed, i'm sorry, i'm sorry. i know, he said. she felt so tiny in his arms, nothing but a scrawny little girl. it was hard to see how she had caused so much trouble. are you hurt? no. her face was dirty, and her tears left pink tracks down her cheeks. hungry some. i ate some berries, but there was nothing else. we'll feed you soon enough, ned promised. he rose to face the king. what is the meaning of this? his eyes swept the room, searching for friendly faces. but for his own men, they were few enough. ser raymun darry guarded his look well. lord renly wore a half smile that might mean anything, and old ser barristan was grave; the rest were lannister men, and hostile. their only good fortune was that both jaime lannister and sandor clegane were missing, leading searches north of the trident. why was i not told that my daughter had been found? ned demanded, his voice ringing. why was she not brought to me at once? he spoke to robert, but it was cersei lannister who answered. how dare you speak to your king in that manner! at that, the king stirred. quiet, woman, he snapped. he straightened in his seat. i am sorry, ned. i never meant to frighten the girl. it seemed best to bring her here and get the business done with quickly. and what business is that? ned put ice in his voice. the queen stepped forward. you know full well, stark. this girl of yours attacked my son. her and her butcher's boy. that animal of hers tried to tear his arm off. that's not true, arya said loudly. she just bit him a little. he was hurting mycah. jo ff told us what happened, the queen said. you and the butcher boy beat him with clubs while you set your wolf on him. that's not how it was, arya said, close to tears again. ned put a hand on her shoulder. yes it is! prince joffrey insisted. they all attacked me, and she threw lion's tooth in the river! ned noticed that he did not so much as glance at arya as he spoke. liar! arya yelled. shut up! the prince yelled back. enough! the king roared, rising from his seat, his voice thick with irritation. silence fell. he glowered at arya through his thick beard. now, child, you will tell me what happened. tell it all, and tell it true. it is a great crime to lie to a king. then he looked over at his son. when she is done, you will have your turn. until then, hold your tongue. as arya began her story, ned heard the door open behind him. he glanced back and saw vayon poole enter with sansa. they stood quietly at the back of the hall as arya spoke. when she got to the part where she threw joffrey's sword into the middle of the trident, renly baratheon began to laugh. the king bristled. ser barristan, escort my brother from the hall before he chokes. lord renly stifled his laughter. my brother is too kind. i can find the door myself. he bowed to joffrey. perchance later you'll tell me how a nine-year-old girl the size of a wet rat managed to disarm you with a broom handle and throw your sword in the river. as the door swung shut behind him, ned heard him say, lion's tooth, and guffaw once more. prince joffrey was pale as he began his very different version of events. when his son was done talking, the king rose heavily from his seat, looking like a man who wanted to be anywhere but here. what in all the seven hells am i supposed to make of this? he says one thing, she says another. they were not the only ones present, ned said. sansa, come here. ned had heard her version of the story the night arya had vanished. he knew the truth. tell us what happened. his eldest daughter stepped forward hesitantly. she was dressed in blue velvets trimmed with white, a silver chain around her neck. her thick auburn hair had been brushed until it shone. she blinked at her sister, then at the young prince. i don't know, she said tearfully, looking as though she wanted to bolt. i don't remember. everything happened so fast, i didn't see... you rotten! arya shrieked. she flew at her sister like an arrow, knocking sansa down to the ground, pummeling her. liar, liar, liar, liar. arya, stop it! ned shouted. jory pulled her off her sister, kicking. sansa was pale and shaking as ned lifted her back to her feet. are you hurt? he asked, but she was staring at arya, and she did not seem to hear. the girl is as wild as that filthy animal of hers, cersei lannister said. robert, i want her punished. seven hells, robert swore. cersei, look at her. she's a child. what would you have me do, whip her through the streets? damn it, children fight. it's over. no lasting harm was done. the queen was furious. joff will carry those scars for the rest of his life. robert baratheon looked at his eldest son. so he will. perhaps they will teach him a lesson. ned, see that your daughter is disciplined. i will do the same with my son. gladly, your grace, ned said with vast relief. robert started to walk away, but the queen was not done. and what of the direwolf? she called after him. what of the beast that savaged your son? the king stopped, turned back, frowned. i'd forgotten about the damned wolf. ned could see arya tense in jory's arms. jory spoke up quickly. we found no trace of the direwolf, your grace. robert did not look unhappy. no? so be it. the queen raised her voice. a hundred golden dragons to the man who brings me its skin! a costly pelt, robert grumbled. i want no part of this, woman. you can damn well buy your furs with lannister gold. the queen regarded him coolly. i had not thought you so niggardly. the king i'd thought to wed would have laid a wolfskin across my bed before the sun went down. robert's face darkened with anger. that would be a fine trick, without a wolf. we have a wolf, cersei lannister said. her voice was very quiet, but her green eyes shone with triumph. it took them all a moment to comprehend her words, but when they did, the king shrugged irritably. as you will. have ser ilyn see to it. robert, you cannot mean this, ned protested. the king was in no mood for more argument. enough, ned, i will hear no more. a direwolf is a savage beast. sooner or later it would have turned on your girl the same way the other did on my son. get her a dog, she'll be happier for it. that was when sansa finally seemed to comprehend. her eyes were frightened as they went to her father. he doesn't mean lady, does he? she saw the truth on his face. no, she said. no, not lady, lady didn't bite anybody, she's good... lady wasn't there, arya shouted angrily. you leave her alone! stop them, sansa pleaded, don't let them do it, please, please, it wasn't lady, it was nymeria, arya did it, you can't, it wasn't lady, don't let them hurt lady, i'll make her be good, i promise, i promise... she started to cry. all ned could do was take her in his arms and hold her while she wept. he looked across the room at robert. his old friend, closer than any brother. please, robert. for the love you bear me. for the love you bore my sister. please. the king looked at them for a long moment, then turned his eyes on his wife. damn you, cersei, he said with loathing. ned stood, gently disengaging himself from sansa's grasp. all the weariness of the past four days had returned to him. do it yourself then, robert, he said in a voice cold and sharp as steel. at least have the courage to do it yourself. robert looked at ned with flat, dead eyes and left without a word, his footsteps heavy as lead. silence filled the hall. where is the direwolf? cersei lannister asked when her husband was gone. beside her, prince joffrey was smiling. the beast is chained up outside the gatehouse, your grace, ser barristan selmy answered reluctantly. send for ilyn payne. no, ned said. jory, take the girls back to their rooms and bring me ice. the words tasted of bile in his throat, but he forced them out. if it must be done, i will do it. cersei lannister regarded him suspiciously. you, stark? is this some trick? why would you do such a thing? they were all staring at him, but it was sansa's look that cut. she is of the north. she deserves better than a butcher. he left the room with his eyes burning and his daughter's wails echoing in his ears, and found the direwolf pup where they chained her. ned sat beside her for a while. lady, he said, tasting the name. he had never paid much attention to the names the children had picked, but looking at her now, he knew that sansa had chosen well. she was the smallest of the litter, the prettiest, the most gentle and trusting. she looked at him with bright golden eyes, and he ruffled her thick grey fur. shortly, jory brought him ice. when it was over, he said, choose four men and have them take the body north. bury her at winterfell. all that way? jory said, astonished. all that way, ned affirmed. the lannister woman shall never have this skin. he was walking back to the tower to give himself up to sleep at last when sandor clegane and his riders came pounding through the castle gate, back from their hunt. there was something slung over the back of his destrier, a heavy shape wrapped in a bloody cloak. no sign of your daughter, hand, the hound rasped down, but the day was not wholly wasted. we got her little pet. he reached back and shoved the burden off, and it fell with a thump in front of ned. bending, ned pulled back the cloak, dreading the words he would have to find for arya, but it was not nymeria after all. it was the butcher's boy, mycah, his body covered in dried blood. he had been cut almost in half from shoulder to waist by some terrible blow struck from above. you rode him down, ned said. the hound's eyes seemed to glitter through the steel of that hideous dog's-head helm. he ran. he looked at ned's face and laughed. but not very fast. eddard stark rode through the towering bronze doors of the red keep sore, tired, hungry, and irritable. he was still a horse, dreaming of a long hot soak, a roast fowl, and a featherbed, when the king's steward told him that grand maester pycelle had convened an urgent meeting of the small council. the honor of the hand's presence was requested as soon as it was convenient. it will be convenient on the morrow, ned snapped as he dismounted. the steward bowed very low. i shall give the councillors your regrets, my lord. no, damn it, ned said. it would not do to offend the council before he had even begun. i will see them. pray give me a few moments to change into something more presentable. yes, my lord, the steward said. we have given you lord arryn's former chambers in the tower of the hand, if it please you. i shall have your things taken there. my thanks, ned said as he ripped off his riding gloves and tucked them into his belt. the rest of his household was coming through the gate behind him. ned saw vayon poole, his own steward, and called out. it seems the council has urgent need of me. see that my daughters find their bedchambers, and tell jory to keep them there. arya is not to go exploring. poole bowed. ned turned back to the royal steward. my wagons are still straggling through the city. i shall need appropriate garments. it will be my great pleasure, the steward said. and so ned had come striding into the council chambers, bonetired and dressed in borrowed clothing, to find four members of the small council waiting for him. the chamber was richly furnished. myrish carpets covered the floor instead of rushes, and in one corner a hundred fabulous beasts cavorted in bright paints on a carved screen from the summer isles. the walls were hung with tapestries from norvos and qohor and lys, and a pair of valyrian sphinxes flanked the door, eyes of polished garnet smoldering in black marble faces. the councillor ned liked least, the eunuch varys, accosted him the moment he entered. lord stark, i was grievous sad to hear about your troubles on the kingsroad. we have all been visiting the sept to light candles for prince joffrey. i pray for his recovery. his hand left powder stains on ned's sleeve, and he smelled as foul and sweet as flowers on a grave. your gods have heard you, ned replied, cool yet polite. the prince grows stronger every day. he disentangled himself from the eunuch's grip and crossed the room to where lord renly stood by the screen, talking quietly with a short man who could only be littlefinger. renly had been a boy of eight when robert won the throne, but he had grown into a man so like his brother that ned found it disconcerting. whenever he saw him, it was as if the years had slipped away and robert stood before him, fresh from his victory on the trident. i see you have arrived safely, lord stark, renly said. and you as well, ned replied. you must forgive me, but sometimes you look the very image of your brother robert. a poor copy, renly said with a shrug. though much better dressed, littlefinger quipped. lord renly spends more on clothing than half the ladies of the court. it was true enough. lord renly was in dark green velvet, with a dozen golden stags embroidered on his doublet. a cloth-of-gold half cape was draped casually across one shoulder, fastened with an emerald brooch. there are worse crimes, renly said with a laugh. the way you dress, for one. littlefinger ignored the jibe. he eyed ned with a smile on his lips that bordered on insolence. i have hoped to meet you for some years, lord stark. no doubt lady catelyn has mentioned me to you. she has, ned replied with a chill in his voice. the sly arrogance of the comment rankled him. i understand you knew my brother brandon as well. renly baratheon laughed. varys shuffled over to listen. rather too well, littlefinger said. i still carry a token of his esteem. did brandon speak of me too? often, and with some heat, ned said, hoping that would end it. he had no patience with this game they played, this dueling with words. i should have thought that heat ill suits you starks, littlefinger said. here in the south, they say you are all made of ice, and melt when you ride below the neck. i do not plan on melting soon, lord baelish. you may count on it. ned moved to the council table and said, maester pycelle, i trust you are well. the grand maester smiled gently from his tall chair at the foot of the table. well enough for a man of my years, my lord, he replied, yet i do tire easily, i fear. wispy strands of white hair fringed the broad bald dome of his forehead above a kindly face. his maester's collar was no simple metal choker such as luwin wore, but two dozen heavy chains wound together into a ponderous metal necklace that covered him from throat to breast. the links were forged of every metal known to man: black iron and red gold, bright copper and dull lead, steel and tin and pale silver, brass and bronze and platinum. garnets and amethysts and black pearls adorned the metalwork, and here and there an emerald or ruby. perhaps we might begin soon, the grand maester said, hands knitting together atop his broad stomach. i fear i shall fall asleep if we wait much longer. as you will. the king's seat sat empty at the head of the table, the crowned stag of baratheon embroidered in gold thread on its pillows. ned took the chair beside it, as the right hand of his king. my lords, he said formally, i am sorry to have kept you waiting. you are the king's hand, varys said. we serve at your pleasure, lord stark. as the others took their accustomed seats, it struck eddard stark forcefully that he did not belong here, in this room, with these men. he remembered what robert had told him in the crypts below winterfell. i am surrounded by flatterers and fools, the king had insisted. ned looked down the council table and wondered which were the flatterers and which the fools. he thought he knew already. we are but five, he pointed out. lord stannis took himself to dragonstone not long after the king went north, varys said, and our gallant ser barristan no doubt rides beside the king as he makes his way through the city, as befits the lord commander of the kingsguard. perhaps we had best wait for ser barristan and the king to join us, ned suggested. renly baratheon laughed aloud. if we wait for my brother to grace us with his royal presence, it could be a long sit. our good king robert has many cares, varys said. he entrusts some small matters to us, to lighten his load. what lord varys means is that all this business of coin and crops and justice bores my royal brother to tears, lord renly said, so it falls to us to govern the realm. he does send us a command from time to time. he drew a tightly rolled paper from his sleeve and laid it on the table. this morning he commanded me to ride ahead with all haste and ask grand maester pycelle to convene this council at once. he has an urgent task for us. littlefinger smiled and handed the paper to ned. it bore the royal seal. ned broke the wax with his thumb and flattened the letter to consider the king's urgent command, reading the words with mounting disbelief. was there no end to robert's folly? and to do this in his name, that was salt in the wound. gods be good, he swore. what lord eddard means to say, lord renly announced, is that his grace instructs us to stage a great tournament in honor of his appointment as the hand of the king. how much? asked littlefinger, mildly. ned read the answer off the letter. forty thousand golden dragons to the champion. twenty thousand to the man who comes second, another twenty to the winner of the melee, and ten thousand to the victor of the archery competition. ninety thousand gold pieces, littlefinger sighed. and we must not neglect the other costs. robert will want a prodigious feast. that means cooks, carpenters, serving girls, singers, jugglers, fools fools we have in plenty, lord renly said. grand maester pycelle looked to littlefinger and asked, will the treasury bear the expense? what treasury is that? littlefinger replied with a twist of his mouth. spare me the foolishness, maester. you know as well as i that the treasury has been empty for years. i shall have to borrow the money. no doubt the lannisters will be accommodating. we owe lord tywin some three million dragons at present, what matter another hundred thousand? ned was stunned. are you claiming that the crown is three million gold pieces in debt? the crown is more than six million gold pieces in debt, lord stark. the lannisters are the biggest part of it, but we have also borrowed from lord tyrell, the iron bank of braavos, and several tyroshi trading cartels. of late i've had to turn to the faith. the high septon haggles worse than a dornish fishmonger. ned was aghast. aerys targaryen left a treasury flowing with gold. how could you let this happen? little finger gave a shrug. the master of coin finds the money. the king and the hand spend it. i will not believe that jon arryn allowed robert to beggar the realm, ned said hotly. grand maester pycelle shook his great bald head, his chains clinking softly. lord arryn was a prudent man, but i fear that his grace does not always listen to wise counsel. my royal brother loves tournaments and feasts, renly baratheon said, and he loathes what he calls'counting coppers.'  i will speak with his grace, ned said. this tourney is an extravagance the realm cannot afford. speak to him as you will, lord renly said, we had still best make our plans. another day, ned said. perhaps too sharply, from the looks they gave him. he would have to remember that he was no longer in winterfell, where only the king stood higher; here, he was but first among equals. forgive me, my lords, he said in a softer tone. i am tired. let us call a halt for today and resume when we are fresher. he did not ask for their consent, but stood abruptly, nodded at them all, and made for the door. outside, wagons and riders were still pouring through the castle gates, and the yard was a chaos of mud and horseflesh and shouting men. the king had not yet arrived, he was told. since the ugliness on the trident, the starks and their household had ridden well ahead of the main column, the better to separate themselves from the lannisters and the growing tension. robert had hardly been seen; the talk was he was traveling in the huge wheelhouse, drunk as often as not. if so, he might be hours behind, but he would still be here too soon for ned's liking. he had only to look at sansa's face to feel the rage twisting inside him once again. the last fortnight of their journey had been a misery. sansa blamed arya and told her that it should have been nymeria who died. and arya was lost after she heard what had happened to her butcher's boy. sansa cried herself to sleep, arya brooded silently all day long, and eddard stark dreamed of a frozen hell reserved for the starks of winterfell. he crossed the outer yard, passed under a portcullis into the inner bailey, and was walking toward what he thought was the tower of the hand when little finger appeared in front of him. you're going the wrong way, stark. come with me. hesitantly, ned followed. littlefinger led him into a tower, down a stair, across a small sunken courtyard, and along a deserted corridor where empty suits of armor stood sentinel along the walls. they were relics of the targaryens, black steel with dragon scales cresting their helms, now dusty and forgotten. this is not the way to my chambers, ned said. did i say it was? i'm leading you to the dungeons to slit your throat and seal your corpse up behind a wall, littlefinger replied, his voice dripping with sarcasm. we have no time for this, stark. your wife awaits. what game are you playing, littlefinger? catelyn is at winterfell, hundreds of leagues from here. oh? littlefinger's grey-green eyes glittered with amusement. then it appears someone has managed an astonishing impersonation. for the last time, come. or don't come, and i'll keep her for myself. he hurried down the steps. ned followed him warily, wondering if this day would ever end. he had no taste for these intrigues, but he was beginning to realize that they were meat and mead to a man like littlefinger. at the foot of the steps was a heavy door of oak and iron. petyr baelish lifted the crossbar and gestured ned through. they stepped out into the ruddy glow of dusk, on a rocky bluff high above the river. we're outside the castle, ned said. you are a hard man to fool, stark, littlefinger said with a smirk. was it the sun that gave it away, or the sky? follow me. there are niches cut in the rock. try not to fall to your death, catelyn would never understand. with that, he was over the side of the cliff, descending as quick as a monkey. ned studied the rocky face of the bluff for a moment, then followed more slowly. the niches were there, as littlefinger had promised, shallow cuts that would be invisible from below, unless you knew just where to look for them. the river was a long, dizzying distance below. ned kept his face pressed to the rock and tried not to look down any more often than he had to. when at last he reached the bottom, a narrow, muddy trail along the water's edge, littlefinger was lazing against a rock and eating an apple. he was almost down to the core. you are growing old and slow, stark, he said, flipping the apple casually into the rushing water. no matter, we ride the rest of the way. he had two horses waiting. ned mounted up and trotted behind him, down the trail and into the city. finally baelish drew rein in front of a ramshackle building, three stories, timbered, its windows bright with lamplight in the gathering dusk. the sounds of music and raucous laughter drifted out and floated over the water. beside the door swung an ornate oil lamp on a heavy chain, with a globe of leaded red glass. ned stark dismounted in a fury. a brothel, he said as he seized littlefinger by the shoulder and spun him around. you've brought me all this way to take me to a brothel. your wife is inside, littlefinger said. it was the final insult. brandon was too kind to you, ned said as he slammed the small man back against a wall and shoved his dagger up under the little pointed chin beard. my lord, no, an urgent voice called out. he speaks the truth. there were footsteps behind him. ned spun, knife in hand, as an old white-haired man hurried toward them. he was dressed in brown roughspun, and the soft flesh under his chin wobbled as he ran. this is no business of yours, ned began; then, suddenly, the recognition came. he lowered the dagger, astonished. ser rodrik? rodrik cassel nodded. your lady awaits you upstairs. ned was lost. catelyn is truly here? this is not some strange jape of littlefinger's? he sheathed his blade. would that it were, stark, littlefinger said. follow me, and try to look a shade more lecherous and a shade less like the king's hand. it would not do to have you recognized. perhaps you could fondle a breast or two, just in passing. they went inside, through a crowded common room where a fat woman was singing bawdy songs while pretty young girls in linen shifts and wisps of colored silk pressed themselves against their lovers and dandled on their laps. no one paid ned the least bit of attention. ser rodrik waited below while littlefinger led him up to the third floor, along a corridor, and through a door. inside, catelyn was waiting. she cried out when she saw him, ran to him, and embraced him fiercely. my lady, ned whispered in wonderment. oh, very good, said littlefinger, closing the door. you recognized her. i feared you'd never come, my lord, she whispered against his chest. petyr has been bringing me reports. he told me of your troubles with arya and the young prince. how are my girls? both in mourning, and full of anger, he told her. cat, i do not understand. what are you doing in king's landing? what's happened? ned asked his wife. is it bran? is he... dead was the word that came to his lips, but he could not say it. it is bran, but not as you think, catelyn said. ned was lost. then how? why are you here, my love? what is this place? just what it appears, littlefinger said, easing himself onto a window seat. a brothel. can you think of a less likely place to find a catelyn tully? he smiled. as it chances, i own this particular establishment, so arrangements were easily made. i am most anxious to keep the lannisters from learning that cat is here in king's landing. why? ned asked. he saw her hands then, the awkward way she held them, the raw red scars, the stiffness of the last two fingers on her left. you've been hurt. he took her hands in his own, turned them over. gods. those are deep cuts... a gash from a sword or... how did this happen, my lady? catelyn slid a dagger out from under her cloak and placed it in his hand. this blade was sent to open bran's throat and spill his life's blood. ned's head jerked up. but... who... why would. she put a finger to his lips. let me tell it all, my love. it will go faster that way. listen. so he listened, and she told it all, from the fire in the library tower to varys and the guardsmen and littlefinger. and when she was done, eddard stark sat dazed beside the table, the dagger in his hand. bran's wolf had saved the boy's life, he thought dully. what was it that jon had said when they found the pups in the snow? your children were meant to have these pups, my lord. and he had killed sansa's, and for what? was it guilt he was feeling? or fear? if the gods had sent these wolves, what folly had he done? painfully, ned forced his thoughts back to the dagger and what it meant. the imp's dagger, he repeated. it made no sense. his hand curled around the smooth dragonbone hilt, and he slammed the blade into the table, felt it bite into the wood. it stood mocking him. why should tyrion lannister want bran dead? the boy has never done him harm. do you starks have nought but snow between your ears? littlefinger asked. the imp would never have acted alone. ned rose and paced the length of the room. if the queen had a role in this or, gods forbid, the king himself... no, i will not believe that. yet even as he said the words, he remembered that chill morning on the barrowlands, and robert's talk of sending hired knives after the targaryen princess. he remembered rhaegar's infant son, the red ruin of his skull, and the way the king had turned away, as he had turned away in dairy's audience hall not so long ago. he could still hear sansa pleading, as lyanna had pleaded once. most likely the king did not know, littlefinger said. it would not be the first time. our good robert is practiced at closing his eyes to things he would rather not see. ned had no reply for that. the face of the butcher's boy swam up before his eyes, cloven almost in two, and afterward the king had said not a word. his head was pounding. littlefinger sauntered over to the table, wrenched the knife from the wood. the accusation is treason either way. accuse the king and you will dance with ilyn payne before the words are out of your mouth. the queen... if you can find proof, and if you can make robert listen, then perhaps... we have proof, ned said. we have the dagger. this? littlefinger flipped the knife casually end over end. a sweet piece of steel, but it cuts two ways, my lord. the imp will no doubt swear the blade was lost or stolen while he was at winterfell, and with his hireling dead, who is there to give him the lie? he tossed the knife lightly to ned. my counsel is to drop that in the river and forget that it was ever forged. ned regarded him coldly. lord baelish, i am a stark of winterfell. my son lies crippled, perhaps dying. he would be dead, and catelyn with him, but for a wolf pup we found in the snow. if you truly believe i could forget that, you are as big a fool now as when you took up sword against my brother. a fool i may be, stark... yet i'm still here, while your brother has been moldering in his frozen grave for some fourteen years now. if you are so eager to molder beside him, far be it from me to dissuade you, but i would rather not be included in the party, thank you very much. you would be the last man i would willingly include in any party, lord baelish. you wound me deeply. littlefinger placed a hand over his heart. for my part, i always found you starks a tiresome lot, but cat seems to have become attached to you, for reasons i cannot comprehend. i shall try to keep you alive for her sake. a fool's task, admittedly, but i could never refuse your wife anything. littlefinger. i should warn you, stark, we usually charge for that sort of thing around here. a moment alone, that's all i ask, catelyn said. very well. littlefinger strolled to the door. don't be too long. it is past time the hand and i returned to the castle, before our absence is noted. catelyn went to him and took his hands in her own. i will not forget the help you gave me, petyr. when your men came for me, i did not know whether they were taking me to a friend or an enemy. i have found you more than a friend. i have found a brother i'd thought lost. petyr baelish smiled. i am desperately sentimental, sweet lady. best not tell anyone. i have spent years convincing the court that i am wicked and cruel, and i should hate to see all that hard work go for naught. ned believed not a word of that, but he kept his voice polite as he said, you have my thanks as well, lord baelish. oh, now there's a treasure, littlefinger said, exiting. when the door had closed behind him, ned turned back to his wife. once you are home, send word to helman tallhart and galbart glover under my seal. they are to raise a hundred bowmen each and fortify moat cailin. two hundred determined archers can hold the neck against an army. instruct lord manderly that he is to strengthen and repair all his defenses at white harbor, and see that they are well manned. and from this day on, i want a careful watch kept over theon greyjoy. if there is war, we shall have sore need of his father's fleet. war? the fear was plain on catelyn' s face. it will not come to that, ned promised her, praying it was true. he took her in his arms again. the lannisters are merciless in the face of weakness, as aerys targaryen learned to his sorrow, but they would not dare attack the north without all the power of the realm behind them, and that they shall not have. i must play out this fool's masquerade as if nothing is amiss. remember why i came here, my love. if i find proof that the lannisters murdered jon arryn... he felt catelyn tremble in his arms. her scarred hands clung to him. if, she said, what then, my love? that was the most dangerous part, ned knew. all justice flows from the king, he told her. when i know the truth, i must go to robert. and pray that he is the man i think he is, he finished silently, and not the man i fear he has become. lord arryn's death was a great sadness for all of us, my lord, grand maester pycelle said. i would be more than happy to tell you what i can of the manner of his passing. do be seated. would you care for refreshments? some dates, perhaps? i have some very fine persimmons as well. wine no longer agrees with my digestion, i fear, but i can offer you a cup of iced milk, sweetened with honey. i find it most refreshing in this heat. there was no denying the heat; ned could feel the silk tunic clinging to his chest. thick, moist air covered the city like a damp woolen blanket, and the riverside had grown unruly as the poor fled their hot, airless warrens to jostle for sleeping places near the water, where the only breath of wind was to be found. that would be most kind, ned said, seating himself. pycelle lifted a tiny silver bell with thumb and forefinger and tinkled it gently. a slender young serving girl hurried into the solar. iced milk for the king's hand and myself, if you would be so kind, child. well sweetened. as the girl went to fetch their drinks, the grand maester knotted his fingers together and rested his hands on his stomach. the smallfolk say that the last year of summer is always the hottest. it is not so, yet ofttimes it feels that way, does it not? on days like this, i envy you northerners your summer snows. the heavy jeweled chain around the old man's neck chinked softly as he shifted in his seat. to be sure, king maekar's summer was hotter than this one, and near as long. there were fools, even in the citadel, who took that to mean that the great summer had come at last, the summer that never ends, but in the seventh year it broke suddenly, and we had a short autumn and a terrible long winter. still, the heat was fierce while it lasted. oldtown steamed and sweltered by day and came alive only by night. we would walk in the gardens by the river and argue about the gods. i remember the smells of those nights, my lord-perfume and sweat, melons ripe to bursting, peaches and pomegranates, nightshade and moonbloom. i was a young man then, still forging my chain. the heat did not exhaust me as it does now. pycelle's eyes were so heavily lidded he looked half-asleep. my pardons, lord eddard. you did not come to hear foolish meanderings of a summer forgotten before your father was born. forgive an old man his wanderings, if you would. minds are like swords, i do fear. the old ones go to rust. ah, and here is our milk. the serving girl placed the tray between them, and pycelle gave her a smile. sweet child. he lifted a cup, tasted, nodded. thank you. you may go. when the girl had taken her leave, pycelle peered at ned through pale, rheumy eyes. now where were we? oh, yes. you asked about lord arryn... i did. ned sipped politely at the iced milk. it was pleasantly cold, but oversweet to his taste. if truth be told, the hand had not seemed quite himself for some time, pycelle said. we had sat together on council many a year, he and i, and the signs were there to read, but i put them down to the great burdens he had borne so faithfully for so long. those broad shoulders were weighed down by all the cares of the realm, and more besides. his son was ever sickly, and his lady wife so anxious that she would scarcely let the boy out of her sight. it was enough to weary even a strong man, and the lord jon was not young. small wonder if he seemed melancholy and tired. or so i thought at the time. yet now i am less certain. he gave a ponderous shake of his head. what can you tell me of his final illness? the grand maester spread his hands in a gesture of helpless sorrow. he came to me one day asking after a certain book, as hale and healthy as ever, though it did seem to me that something was troubling him deeply. the next morning he was twisted over in pain, too sick to rise from bed. maester colemon thought it was a chill on the stomach. the weather had been hot, and the hand often iced his wine, which can upset the digestion. when lord jon continued to weaken, i went to him myself, but the gods did not grant me the power to save him. i have heard that you sent maester colemon away. the grand maester's nod was as slow and deliberate as a glacier. i did, and i fear the lady lysa will never forgive me that. maybe i was wrong, but at the time i thought it best. maester colemon is like a son to me, and i yield to none in my esteem for his abilities, but he is young, and the young ofttimes do not comprehend the frailty of an older body. he was purging lord arryn with wasting potions and pepper juice, and i feared he might kill him. did lord arryn say anything to you during his final hours? pycelle wrinkled his brow. in the last stage of his fever, the hand called out the name robert several times, but whether he was asking for his son or for the king i could not say. lady lysa would not permit the boy to enter the sickroom, for fear that he too might be taken ill. the king did come, and he sat beside the bed for hours, talking and joking of times long past in hopes of raising lord jon's spirits. his love was fierce to see. was there nothing else? no final words? when i saw that all hope had fled, i gave the hand the milk of the poppy, so he should not suffer. just before he closed his eyes for the last time, he whispered something to the king and his lady wife, a blessing for his son. the seed is strong, he said. at the end, his speech was too slurred to comprehend. death did not come until the next morning, but lord jon was at peace after that. he never spoke again. ned took another swallow of milk, trying not to gag on the sweetness of it. did it seem to you that there was anything unnatural about lord arryn' s death? unnatural? the aged maester's voice was thin as a whisper. no, i could not say so. sad, for a certainty. yet in its own way, death is the most natural thing of all, lord eddard. jon arryn rests easy now, his burdens lifted at last. this illness that took him, said ned. had you ever seen its like before, in other men? near forty years i have been grand maester of the seven kingdoms, pycelle replied. under our good king robert, and aerys targaryen before him, and his father jaehaerys the second before him, and even for a few short months under jaehaerys's father, aegon the fortunate, the fifth of his name. i have seen more of illness than i care to remember, my lord. i will tell you this: every case is different, and every case is alike. lord jon's death was no stranger than any other. his wife thought otherwise. the grand maester nodded. i recall now, the widow is sister to your own noble wife. if an old man may be forgiven his blunt speech, let me say that grief can derange even the strongest and most disciplined of minds, and the lady lysa was never that. since her last stillbirth, she has seen enemies in every shadow, and the death of her lord husband left her shattered and lost. so you are quite certain that jon arryn died of a sudden illness? i am, pycelle replied gravely. if not illness, my good lord, what else could it be? poison, ned suggested quietly. pycelle's sleepy eyes flicked open. the aged maester shifted uncomfortably in his seat. a disturbing thought. we are not the free cities, where such things are common. grand maester aethelmure wrote that all men carry murder in their hearts, yet even so, the poisoner is beneath contempt. he fell silent for a moment, his eyes lost in thought. what you suggest is possible, my lord, yet i do not think it likely. every hedge maester knows the common poisons, and lord arryn displayed none of the signs. and the hand was loved by all. what sort of monster in man's flesh would dare to murder such a noble lord? i have heard it said that poison is a woman's weapon. pycelle stroked his beard thoughtfully. it is said. women, cravens... and eunuchs. he cleared his throat and spat a thick glob of phlegm onto the rushes. above them, a raven cawed loudly in the rookery. the lord varys was born a slave in lys, did you know? put not your trust in spiders, my lord. that was scarcely anything ned needed to be told; there was something about varys that made his flesh crawl. i will remember that, maester. and i thank you for your help. i have taken enough of your time. he stood. grand maester pycelle pushed himself up from his chair slowly and escorted ned to the door. i hope i have helped in some small way to put your mind at ease. if there is any other service i might perform, you need only ask. one thing, ned told him. i should be curious to examine the book that you lent jon the day before he fell ill. i fear you would find it of little interest, pycelle said. it was a ponderous tome by grand maester malleon on the lineages of the great houses. still, i should like to see it. the old man opened the door. as you wish. i have it here somewhere. when i find it, i shall have it sent to your chambers straightaway... you have been most courteous, ned told him. then, almost as an afterthought, he said, one last question, if you would be so kind. you mentioned that the king was at lord arryn's bedside when he died. i wonder, was the queen with him? why, no, pycelle said. she and the children were making the journey to casterly rock, in company with her father. lord tywin had brought a retinue to the city for the tourney on prince joffrey's name day, no doubt hoping to see his son jaime win the champion's crown. in that he was sadly disappointed. it fell to me to send the queen word of lord arryn's sudden death. never have i sent off a bird with a heavier heart. dark wings, dark words, ned murmured. it was a proverb old nan had taught him as a boy. so the fishwives say, grand maester pycelle agreed, but we know it is not always so. when maester luwin's bird brought the word about your bran, the message lifted every true heart in the castle, did it not? as you say, maester. the gods are merciful. pycelle bowed his head. come to me as often as you like, lord eddard. i am here to serve. yes, ned thought as the door swung shut, but whom? on the way back to his chambers, he came upon his daughter arya on the winding steps of the tower of the hand, windmilling her arms as she struggled to balance on one leg. the rough stone had scuffed her bare feet. ned stopped and looked at her. arya, what are you doing? syrio says a water dancer can stand on one toe for hours. her hands flailed at the air to steady herself. ned had to smile. which toe? he teased. any toe, arya said, exasperated with the question. she hopped from her right leg to her left, swaying dangerously before she regained her balance. must you do your standing here? he asked. it's a long hard fall down these steps. syrio says a water dancer never falls. she lowered her leg to stand on two feet. father, will bran come and live with us now? not for a long time, sweet one, he told her. he needs to win his strength back. arya bit her lip. what will bran do when he's of age? ned knelt beside her. he has years to find that answer, arya. for now, it is enough to know that he will live. the night the bird had come from winterfell, eddard stark had taken the girls to the castle godswood, an acre of elm and alder and black cottonwood overlooking the river. the heart tree there was a great oak, its ancient limbs overgrown with smokeberry vines; they knelt before it to offer their thanksgiving, as if it had been a weirwood. sansa drifted to sleep as the moon rose, arya several hours later, curling up in the grass under ned's cloak. all through the dark hours he kept his vigil alone. when dawn broke over the city, the dark red blooms of dragon's breath surrounded the girls where they lay. i dreamed of bran, sansa had whispered to him. i saw him smiling. he was going to be a knight, arya was saying now. a knight of the kingsguard. can he still be a knight? no, ned said. he saw no use in lying to her. yet someday he may be the lord of a great holdfast and sit on the king's council. he might raise castles like brandon the builder, or sail a ship across the sunset sea, or enter your mother's faith and become the high septon. but he will never run beside his wolf again, he thought with a sadness too deep for words, or lie with a woman, or hold his own son in his arms. arya cocked her head to one side. can i be a king's councillor and build castles and become the high septon? you, ned said, kissing her lightly on the brow, will marry a king and rule his castle, and your sons will be knights and princes and lords and, yes, perhaps even a high septon. arya screwed up her face. no, she said, that's sansa. she folded up her right leg and resumed her balancing. ned sighed and left her there. inside his chambers, he stripped off his sweat-stained silks and sluiced cold water over his head from the basin beside the bed. alyn entered as he was drying his face. my lord, he said, lord baelish is without and begs audience. escort him to my solar, ned said, reaching for a fresh tunic, the lightest linen he could find. i'll see him at once. little finger was perched on the window seat when ned entered, watching the knights of the kingsguard practice at swords in the yard below. if only old selmy's mind were as nimble as his blade, he said wistfully, our council meetings would be a good deal livelier. ser barristan is as valiant and honorable as any man in king's landing. ned had come to have a deep respect for the aged, whitehaired lord commander of the kingsguard. and as tiresome, littlefinger added, though i daresay he should do well in the tourney. last year he unhorsed the hound, and it was only four years ago that he was champion. the question of who might win the tourney interested eddard stark not in the least. is there a reason for this visit, lord petyr, or are you here simply to enjoy the view from my window? littlefinger smiled. i promised cat i would help you in your inquiries, and so i have. that took ned aback. promise or no promise, he could not find it in him to trust lord petyr baelish, who struck him as too clever by half. you have something for me? someone, littlefinger corrected. four someones, if truth be told. had you thought to question the hand's servants? ned frowned. would that i could. lady arryn took her household back to the eyrie. lysa had done him no favor in that regard. all those who had stood closest to her husband had gone with her when she fled: jon's maester, his steward, the captain of his guard, his knights and retainers. most of her household, littlefinger said, not all. a few remain. a pregnant kitchen girl hastily wed to one of lord renly's grooms, a stablehand who joined the city watch, a potboy discharged from service for theft, and lord arryn' s squire. his squire? ned was pleasantly surprised. a man's squire often knew a great deal of his comings and goings. ser hugh of the vale, littlefinger named him. the king knighted the boy after lord arryn' s death. i shall send for him, ned said. and the others. littlefinger winced. my lord, step over here to the window, if you would be so kind. why? come, and i'll show you, my lord. frowning, ned crossed to the window. petyr baelish made a casual gesture. there, across the yard, at the door of the armory, do you see the boy squatting by the steps honing a sword with an oilstone? what of him? he reports to varys. the spider has taken a great interest in you and all your doings. he shifted in the window seat. now glance at the wall. farther west, above the stables. the guardsman leaning on the ramparts? ned saw the man. another of the eunuch's whisperers? no, this one belongs to the queen. notice that he enjoys a fine view of the door to this tower, the better to note who calls on you. there are others, many unknown even to me. the red keep is full of eyes. why do you think i hid cat in a brothel? eddard stark had no taste for these intrigues. seven hells, he swore. it did seem as though the man on the walls was watching him. suddenly uncomfortable, ned moved away from the window. is everyone someone's informer in this cursed city? scarcely, said littlefinger. he counted on the fingers on his hand. why, there's me, you, the king... although, come to think on it, the king tells the queen much too much, and i'm less than certain about you. he stood up. is there a man in your service that you trust utterly and completely? yes, said ned. in that case, i have a delightful palace in valyria that i would dearly love to sell you, littlefinger said with a mocking smile. the wiser answer was no, my lord, but be that as it may. send this paragon of yours to ser hugh and the others. your own comings and goings will be noted, but even varys the spider cannot watch every man in your service every hour of the day. he started for the door. lord petyr, ned called after him. i... am grateful for your help. perhaps i was wrong to distrust you. littlefinger fingered his small pointed beard. you are slow to learn, lord eddard. distrusting me was the wisest thing you've done since you climbed down off your horse. it's the hand's tourney that's the cause of all the trouble, my lords, the commander of the city watch complained to the king's council. the king's tourney, ned corrected, wincing. i assure you, the hand wants no part of it. call it what you will, my lord. knights have been arriving from all over the realm, and for every knight we get two freeriders, three craftsmen, six men-at-arms, a dozen merchants, two dozen whores, and more thieves than i dare guess. this cursed heat had half the city in a fever to start, and now with all these visitors... last night we had a drowning, a tavern riot, three knife fights, a rape, two fires, robberies beyond count, and a drunken horse race down the street of the sisters. the night before a woman's head was found in the great sept, floating in the rainbow pool. no one seems to know how it got there or who it belongs to. how dreadful, varys said with a shudder. lord renly baratheon was less sympathetic. if you cannot keep the king's peace, janos, perhaps the city watch should be commanded by someone who can. stout, jowly janos slynt puffed himself up like an angry frog, his bald pate reddening. aegon the dragon himself could not keep the peace, lord renly. i need more men. how many? ned asked, leaning forward. as ever, robert had not troubled himself to attend the council session, so it fell to his hand to speak for him. as many as can be gotten, lord hand. hire fifty new men, ned told him. lord baelish will see that you get the coin. i will? littlefinger said. you will. you found forty thousand golden dragons for a champion's purse, surely you can scrape together a few coppers to keep the king's peace. ned turned back to janos slynt. i will also give you twenty good swords from my own household guard, to serve with the watch until the crowds have left. all thanks, lord hand, slynt said, bowing. i promise you, they shall be put to good use. when the commander had taken his leave, eddard stark turned to the rest of the council. the sooner this folly is done with, the better i shall like it. as if the expense and trouble were not irksome enough, all and sundry insisted on salting ned's wound by calling it the hand's tourney, as if he were the cause of it. and robert honestly seemed to think he should feel honored! the realm prospers from such events, my lord, grand maester pycelle said. they bring the great the chance of glory, and the lowly a respite from their woes. and put coins in many a pocket, littlefinger added. every inn in the city is full, and the whores are walking bowlegged and jingling with each step. lord renly laughed. we're fortunate my brother stannis is not with us. remember the time he proposed to outlaw brothels? the king asked him if perhaps he'd like to outlaw eating, shitting, and breathing while he was at it. if truth be told, i ofttimes wonder how stannis ever got that ugly daughter of his. he goes to his marriage bed like a man marching to a battlefield, with a grim look in his eyes and a determination to do his duty. ned had not joined the laughter. i wonder about your brother stannis as well. i wonder when he intends to end his visit to dragonstone and resume his seat on this council. no doubt as soon as we've scourged all those whores into the sea, littlefinger replied, provoking more laughter. i have heard quite enough about whores for one day, ned said, rising. until the morrow. harwin had the door when ned returned to the tower of the hand. summon jory to my chambers and tell your father to saddle my horse, ned told him, too brusquely. as you say, my lord. the red keep and the hand's tourney were chafing him raw, ned reflected as he climbed. he yearned for the comfort of catelyn's arms, for the sounds of robb and jon crossing swords in the practice yard, for the cool days and cold nights of the north. in his chambers he stripped off his council silks and sat for a moment with the book while he waited for jory to arrive. the lineages and histories of the great houses of the seven kingdoms, with descliptions of many high lords and noble ladies and their children, by grand maester malleon. pycelle had spoken truly; it made for ponderous reading. yet jon arryn had asked for it, and ned felt certain he had reasons. there was something here, some truth buried in these brittle yellow pages, if only he could see it. but what? the tome was over a century old. scarcely a man now alive had yet been born when malleon had compiled his dusty lists of weddings, births, and deaths. he opened to the section on house lannister once more, and turned the pages slowly, hoping against hope that something would leap out at him. the lannisters were an old family, tracing their descent back to lann the clever, a trickster from the age of heroes who was no doubt as legendary as bran the builder, though far more beloved of singers and taletellers. in the songs, lann was the fellow who winkled the casterlys out of casterly rock with no weapon but his wits, and stole gold from the sun to brighten his curly hair. ned wished he were here now, to winkle the truth out of this damnable book. a sharp rap on the door heralded jory cassel. ned closed malleon's tome and bid him enter. i've promised the city watch twenty of my guard until the tourney is done, he told him. i rely on you to make the choice. give alyn the command, and make certain the men understand that they are needed to stop fights, not start them. rising, ned opened a cedar chest and removed a light linen undertunic. did you find the stableboy? the watchman, my lord, jory said. he vows he'll never touch another horse. what did he have to say? he claims he knew lord arryn well. fast friends, they were. jory snorted. the hand always gave the lads a copper on their name days, he says. had a way with horses. never rode his mounts too hard, and brought them carrots and apples, so they were always pleased to see him. carrots and apples, ned repeated. it sounded as if this boy would be even less use than the others. and he was the last of the four littlefinger had turned up. jory had spoken to each of them in turn. ser hugh had been brusque and uninformative, and arrogant as only a new-made knight can be. if the hand wished to talk to him, he should be pleased to receive him, but he would not be questioned by a mere captain of guards... even if said captain was ten years older and a hundred times the swordsman. the serving girl had at least been pleasant. she said lord jon had been reading more than was good for him, that he was troubled and melancholy over his young son's frailty, and gruff with his lady wife. the potboy, now cordwainer, had never exchanged so much as a word with lord jon, but he was full of oddments of kitchen gossip: the lord had been quarreling with the king, the lord only picked at his food, the lord was sending his boy to be fostered on dragonstone, the lord had taken a great interest in the breeding of hunting hounds, the lord had visited a master armorer to commission a new suit of plate, wrought all in pale silver with a blue jasper falcon and a mother-of-pearl moon on the breast. the king's own brother had gone with him to help choose the design, the potboy said. no, not lord renly, the other one, lord stannis. did our watchman recall anything else of note? the lad swears lord jon was as strong as a man half his age. often went riding with lord stannis, he says. stannis again, ned thought. he found that curious. jon arryn and he had been cordial, but never friendly. and while robert had been riding north to winterfell, stannis had removed himself to dragonstone, the targaryen island fastness he had conquered in his brother's name. he had given no word as to when he might return. where did they go on these rides? ned asked. the boy says that they visited a brothel. a brothel? ned said. the lord of the eyrie and hand of the king visited a brothel with stannis baratheon? he shook his head, incredulous, wondering what lord renly would make of this tidbit. robert's lusts were the subject of ribald drinking songs throughout the realm, but stannis was a different sort of man; a bare year younger than the king, yet utterly unlike him, stern, humorless, unforgiving, grim in his sense of duty. the boy insists it's true. the hand took three guardsmen with him, and the boy says they were joking of it when he took their horses afterward. which brothel? ned asked. the boy did not know. the guards would. a pity lysa carried them off to the vale, ned said dryly. the gods are doing their best to vex us. lady lysa, maester colemon, lord stannis... everyone who might actually know the truth of what happened to jon arryn is a thousand leagues away. will you summon lord stannis back from dragonstone? not yet, ned said. not until i have a better notion of what this is all about and where he stands. the matter nagged at him. why did stannis leave? had he played some part in jon arryn's murder? or was he afraid? ned found it hard to imagine what could frighten stannis baratheon, who had once held storm's end through a year of siege, surviving on rats and boot leather while the lords tyrell and redwyne sat outside with their hosts, banqueting in sight of his walls. bring me my doublet, if you would. the grey, with the direwolf sigil. i want this armorer to know who i am. it might make him more forthcoming. jory went to the wardrobe. lord renly is brother to lord stannis as well as the king. yet it seems that he was not invited on these rides. ned was not sure what to make of renly, with all his friendly ways and easy smiles. a few days past, he had taken ned aside to show him an exquisite rose gold locklet. inside was a miniature painted in the vivid myrish style, of a lovely young girl with doe's eyes and a cascade of soft brown hair. renly had seemed anxious to know if the girl reminded him of anyone, and when ned had no answer but a shrug, he had seemed disappointed. the maid was loras tyrell's sister margaery, he'd confessed, but there were those who said she looked like lyanna. no, ned had told him, bemused. could it be that lord renly, who looked so like a young robert, had conceived a passion for a girl he fancied to be a young lyanna? that struck him as more than passing queer. jory held out the doublet, and ned slid his hands through the armholes. perhaps lord stannis will return for robert's tourney, he said as jory laced the garment up the back. that would be a stroke of fortune, my lord, jory said. ned buckled on a longsword. in other words, not bloody likely. his smile was grim. jory draped ned's cloak across his shoulders and clasped it at the throat with the hand's badge of office. the armorer lives above his shop, in a large house at the top of the street of steel. alyn knows the way, my lord. ned nodded. the gods help this potboy if he's sent me off haring after shadows. it was a slim enough staff to lean on, but the jon arryn that ned stark had known was not one to wear jeweled and silvered plate. steel was steel; it was meant for protection, not ornament. he might have changed his views, to be sure. he would scarcely have been the first man who came to look on things differently after a few years at court... but the change was marked enough to make ned wonder. is there any other service i might perform? i suppose you'd best begin visiting whorehouses. hard duty, my lord. jory grinned. the men will be glad to help. porther has made a fair start already. ned's favorite horse was saddled and waiting in the yard. varly and jacks fell in beside him as he rode through the yard. their steel caps and shirts of mail must have been sweltering, yet they said no word of complaint. as lord eddard passed beneath the king's gate into the stink of the city, his grey and white cloak streaming from his shoulders, he saw eyes everywhere and kicked his mount into a trot. his guard followed. he looked behind him frequently as they made their way through the crowded city streets. tomard and desmond had left the castle early this morning to take up positions on the route they must take, and watch for anyone following them, but even so, ned was uncertain. the shadow of the king's spider and his little birds had him fretting like a maiden on her wedding night. the street of steel began at the market square beside the river gate, as it was named on maps, or the mud gate, as it was commonly called. a mummer on stilts was striding through the throngs like some great insect, with a horde of barefoot children trailing behind him, hooting. elsewhere, two ragged boys no older than bran were dueling with sticks, to the loud encouragement of some and the furious curses of others. an old woman ended the contest by leaning out of her window and emptying a bucket of slops on the heads of the combatants. in the shadow of the wall, farmers stood beside their wagons, bellowing out,'apples, the best apples, cheap at twice the price, and blood melons, sweet as honey, and turnips, onions, roots, here you go here, here you go, turnips, onions, roots, here you go here. the mud gate was open, and a squad of city watchmen stood under the portcullis in their golden cloaks, leaning on spears. when a column of riders appeared from the west, the guardsmen sprang into action, shouting commands and moving the carts and foot traffic aside to let the knight enter with his escort. the first rider through the gate carried a long black banner. the silk rippled in the wind like a living thing; across the fabric was blazoned a night sky slashed with purple lightning. make way for lord beric! the rider shouted. make way for lord beric! and close behind came the young lord himself, a dashing figure on a black courser, with red-gold hair and a black satin cloak dusted with stars. here to fight in the hand's tourney, my lord? a guardsman called out to him. here to win the hand's tourney, lord beric shouted back as the crowd cheered. ned turned off the square where the street of steel began and followed its winding path up a long hill, past blacksmiths working at open forges, freeriders haggling over mail shirts, and grizzled ironmongers selling old blades and razors from their wagons. the farther they climbed, the larger the buildings grew. the man they wanted was all the way at the top of the hill, in a huge house of timber and plaster whose upper stories loomed over the narrow street. the double doors showed a hunting scene carved in ebony and weirwood. a pair of stone knights stood sentry at the entrance, armored in fanciful suits of polished red steel that transformed them into griffin and unicorn. ned left his horse with jacks and shouldered his way inside. the slim young serving girl took quick note of ned's badge and the sigil on his doublet, and the master came hurrying out, all smiles and bows. wine for the king's hand, he told the girl, gesturing ned to a couch. i am tobho mott, my lord, please, please, put yourself at ease. he wore a black velvet coat with hammers embroidered on the sleeves in silver thread, around his neck was a heavy silver chain and a sapphire as large as a pigeon's egg. if you are in need of new arms for the hand's tourney, you have come to the right shop. ned did not bother to correct him. my work is costly, and i make no apologies for that, my lord, he said as he filled two matching silver goblets. you will not find craftsmanship equal to mine anywhere in the seven kingdoms, i promise you. visit every forge in king's landing if you like, and compare for yourself. any village smith can hammer out a shift of mail; my work is art. ned sipped his wine and let the man go on. the knight of flowers bought all his armor here, tobho boasted, and many high lords, the ones who knew fine steel, and even lord renly, the king's own brother. perhaps the hand had seen lord renly's new armor, the green plate with the golden antlers? no other armorer in the city could get that deep a green; he knew the secret of putting color in the steel itself, paint and enamel were the crutches of a journeyman. or mayhaps the hand wanted a blade? tobho had learned to work valyrian steel at the forges of oohor as a boy. only a man who knew the spells could take old weapons and forge them anew. the direwolf was the sigil of house stark, is it not? i could fashion a direwolf helm so real that children will run from you in the street, he vowed. ned smiled. did you make a falcon helm for lord arryn? tobho mott paused a long moment and set aside his wine. the hand did call upon me, with lord stannis, the king's brother. i regret to say, they did not honor me with their patronage. ned looked at the man evenly, saying nothing, waiting. he had found over the years that silence sometimes yielded more than questions. and so it was this time. they asked to see the boy, the armorer said, so i took them back to the forge. the boy, ned echoed. he had no notion who the boy might be. i should like to see the boy as well. tobho mott gave him a cool, careful look. as you wish, my lord, he said with no trace of his former friendliness. he led ned out a rear door and across a narrow yard, back to the cavernous stone barn where the work was done. when the armorer opened the door, the blast of hot air that came through made ned feel as though he were walking into a dragon's mouth. inside, a forge blazed in each corner, and the air stank of smoke and sulfur. journeymen armorers glanced up from their hammers and tongs just long enough to wipe the sweat from their brows, while bare- chested apprentice boys worked the bellows. the master called over a tall lad about robb's age, his arms and chest corded with muscle. this is lord stark, the new hand of the king, he told him as the boy looked at ned through sullen blue eyes and pushed back sweat-soaked hair with his fingers. thick hair, shaggy and unkempt and black as ink. the shadow of a new beard darkened his jaw. this is gendry. strong for his age, and he works hard. show the hand that helmet you made, lad. almost shyly, the boy led them to his bench, and a steel helm shaped like a bull's head, with two great curving horns. ned turned the helm over in his hands. it was raw steel, unpolished but expertly shaped. this is fine work. i would be pleased if you would let me buy it. the boy snatched it out of his hands. it's not for sale. tobho mott looked horror-struck. boy, this is the king's hand. if his lordship wants this helm, make him a gift of it. he honors you by asking. i made it for me, the boy said stubbornly. a hundred pardons, my lord, his master said hurriedly to ned. the boy is crude as new steel, and like new steel would profit from some beating. that helm is journeyman's work at best. forgive him and i promise i will craft you a helm like none you have ever seen. he's done nothing that requires my forgiveness. gendry, when lord arryn came to see you, what did you talk about? he asked me questions is all, m'lord. what sort of questions? the boy shrugged. how was i, and was i well treated, and if i liked the work, and stuff about my mother. who she was and what she looked like and all. what did you tell him? ned asked. the boy shoved a fresh fall of black hair off his forehead. she died when i was little. she had yellow hair, and sometimes she used to sing to me, i remember. she worked in an alehouse. did lord stannis question you as well? the bald one? no, not him. he never said no word, just glared at me, like i was some raper who done for his daughter. mind your filthy tongue, the master said. this is the king's own hand. the boy lowered his eyes. a smart boy, but stubborn. that helm... the others call him bullheaded, so he threw it in their teeth. ned touched the boy's head, fingering the thick black hair. look at me, gendry. the apprentice lifted his face. ned studied the shape of his jaw, the eyes like blue ice. yes, he thought, i see it. go back to your work, lad. i'm sorry to have bothered you. he walked back to the house with the master. who paid the boy's apprentice fee? he asked lightly. mott looked fretful. you saw the boy. such a strong boy. those hands of his, those hands were made for hammers. he had such promise, i took him on without a fee. the truth now, ned urged. the streets are full of strong boys. the day you take on an apprentice without a fee will be the day the wall comes down. who paid for him? a lord, the master said reluctantly. he gave no name, and wore no sigil on his coat. he paid in gold, twice the customary sum, and said he was paying once for the boy, and once for my silence. describe him. he was stout, round of shoulder, not so tall as you. brown beard, but there was a bit of red in it, i'll swear. he wore a rich cloak, that i do remember, heavy purple velvet worked with silver threads, but the hood shadowed his face and i never did see him clear. he hesitated a moment. my lord, i want no trouble. none of us wants trouble, but i fear these are troubled times, master mott, ned said. you know who the boy is. i am only an armorer, my lord. i know what i'm told. you know who the boy is, ned repeated patiently. that is not a question. the boy is my apprentice, the master said. he looked ned in the eye, stubborn as old iron. who he was before he came to me, that's none of my concern. ned nodded. he decided that he liked tobho mott, master armorer. if the day ever comes when gendry would rather wield a sword than forge one, send him to me. he has the look of a warrior. until then, you have my thanks, master mott, and my promise. should i ever want a helm to frighten children, this will be the first place i visit. his guard was waiting outside with the horses. did you find anything, my lord? jacks asked as ned mounted up. i did, ned told him, wondering. what had jon arryn wanted with a king's bastard, and why was it worth his life? i stood last vigil for him myself, ser barristan selmy said as they looked down at the body in the back of the cart. he had no one else. a mother in the vale, i am told. in the pale dawn light, the young knight looked as though he were sleeping. he had not been handsome, but death had smoothed his rough-hewn features and the silent sisters had dressed him in his best velvet tunic, with a high collar to cover the ruin the lance had made of his throat. eddard stark looked at his face, and wondered if it had been for his sake that the boy had died. slain by a lannister bannerman before ned could speak to him; could that be mere happenstance? he supposed he would never know. hugh was jon arryn's squire for four years, selmy went on. the king knighted him before he rode north, in jon's memory. the lad wanted it desperately, yet i fear he was not ready. ned had slept badly last night and he felt tired beyond his years. none of us is ever ready, he said. for knighthood? for death. gently, ned covered the boy with his cloak, a bloodstained bit of blue bordered in crescent moons. when his mother asked why her son was dead, he reflected bitterly, they would tell her he had fought to honor the king's hand, eddard stark. this was needless. war should not be a game. ned turned to the woman beside the cart, shrouded in grey, face hidden but for her eyes. the silent sisters prepared men for the grave, and it was ill fortune to look on the face of death. send his armor home to the vale. the mother will want to have it. it is worth a fair piece of silver, ser barristan said. the boy had it forged special for the tourney. plain work, but good. i do not know if he had finished paying the smith. he paid yesterday, my lord, and he paid dearly, ned replied. and to the silent sister he said, send the mother the armor. i will deal with this smith. she bowed her head. afterward ser barristan walked with ned to the king's pavilion. the camp was beginning to stir. fat sausages sizzled and spit over firepits, spicing the air with the scents of garlic and pepper. young squires hurried about on errands as their masters woke, yawning and stretching, to meet the day. a serving man with a goose under his arm bent his knee when he caught sight of them. mtords, he muttered as the goose honked and pecked at his fingers. the shields displayed outside each tent heralded its occupant: the silver eagle of seagard, bryce caron's field of nightingales, a cluster of grapes for the redwynes, brindled boar, red ox, burning tree, white ram, triple spiral, purple unicorn, dancing maiden, blackadder, twin towers, horned owl, and last the pure white blazons of the kingsguard, shining like the dawn. the king means to fight in the melee today, ser barristan said as they were passing ser meryn's shield, its paint sullied by a deep gash where loras tyrell's lance had scarred the wood as he drove him from his saddle. yes, ned said grimly. jory had woken him last night to bring him that news. small wonder he had slept so badly. ser barristan's look was troubled. they say night's beauties fade at dawn, and the children of wine are oft disowned in the morning light. they say so, ned agreed, but not of robert. other men might reconsider words spoken in drunken bravado, but robert baratheon would remember and, remembering, would never back down. the king's pavilion was close by the water, and the morning mists off the river had wreathed it in wisps of grey. it was all of golden silk, the largest and grandest structure in the camp. outside the entrance, robert's warhammer was displayed beside an immense iron shield blazoned with the crowned stag of house baratheon. ned had hoped to discover the king still abed in a wine-soaked sleep, but luck was not with him. they found robert drinking beer from a polished horn and roaring his displeasure at two young squires who were trying to buckle him into his armor. your grace, one was saying, almost in tears, it's made too small, it won't go. he fumbled, and the gorget he was trying to fit around robert's thick neck tumbled to the ground. seven hells! robert swore. do i have to do it myself? piss on the both of you. pick it up. don't just stand there gaping, lance, pick it up! the lad jumped, and the king noticed his company. look at these oafs, ned. my wife insisted i take these two to squire for me, and they're worse than useless. can't even put a man's armor on him properly. squires, they say. i say they're swineherds dressed up in silk. ned only needed a glance to understand the difficulty. the boys are not at fault, he told the king. you're too fat for your armor, robert. robert baratheon took a long swallow of beer, tossed the empty horn onto his sleeping furs, wiped his mouth with the back of his hand, and said darkly, fat? fat, is it? is that how you speak to your king? he let go his laughter, sudden as a storm. ah, damn you, ned, why are you always right? the squires smiled nervously until the king turned on them. you. yes, both of you. you heard the hand. the king is too fat for his armor. go find ser aron santagar. tell him i need the breastplate stretcher. now! what are you waiting for? the boys tripped over each other in their haste to be quit of the tent. robert managed to keep a stern face until they were gone. then he dropped back into a chair, shaking with laughter. ser barristan selmy chuckled with him. even eddard stark managed a smile. always, though, the graver thoughts crept in. he could not help taking note of the two squires: handsome boys, fair and well made. one was sansa's age, with long golden curls; the other perhaps fifteen, sandy- haired, with a wisp of a mustache and the emerald-green eyes of the queen. ah, i wish i could be there to see santagar's face, robert said. i hope he'll have the wit to send them to someone else. we ought to keep them running all day! those boys, ned asked him. lannisters? robert nodded, wiping tears from his eyes. cousins. sons of lord tywin's brother. one of the dead ones. or perhaps the live one, now that i come to think on it. i don't recall. my wife comes from a very large family, ned. a very ambitious family, ned thought. he had nothing against the squires, but it troubled him to see robert surrounded by the queen's kin, waking and sleeping. the lannister appetite for offices and honors seemed to know no bounds. the talk is you and the queen had angry words last night. the mirth curdled on robert's face. the woman tried to forbid me to fight in the melee. she's sulking in the castle now, damn her. your sister would never have shamed me like that. you never knew lyanna as i did, robert, ned told him. you saw her beauty, but not the iron underneath. she would have told you that you have no business in the melee. you too? the king frowned. you are a sour man, stark. too long in the north, all the juices have frozen inside you. well, mine are still running. he slapped his chest to prove it. you are the king, ned reminded him. i sit on the damn iron seat when i must. does that mean i don't have the same hungers as other men? a bit of wine now and again, a girl squealing in bed, the feel of a horse between my legs? seven hells, ned, i want to hit someone. ser barristan selmy spoke up. your grace, he said, it is not seemly that the king should ride into the melee. it would not be a fair contest. who would dare strike you? robert seemed honestly taken aback. why, all of them, damn it. if they can. and the last man left standing... ... will be you, ned finished. he saw at once that selmy had hit the mark. the dangers of the melee were only a savor to robert, but this touched on his pride. ser barristan is right. there's not a man in the seven kingdoms who would dare risk your displeasure by hurting you. the king rose to his feet, his face flushed. are you telling me those prancing cravens will let me win? for a certainty, ned said, and ser barristan selmy bowed his head in silent accord. for a moment robert was so angry he could not speak. he strode across the tent, whirled, strode back, his face dark and angry. he snatched up his breastplate from the ground and threw it at barristan selmy in a wordless fury. selmy dodged. get out, the king said then, coldly. get out before i kill you. ser barristan left quickly. ned was about to follow when the king called out again. not you, ned. ned turned back. robert took up his horn again, filled it with beer from a barrel in the corner, and thrust it at ned. drink, he said brusquely. i've no thirst- drink. your king commands it. ned took the horn and drank. the beer was black and thick, so strong it stung the eyes. robert sat down again. damn you, ned stark. you and jon arryn, i loved you both. what have you done to me? you were the one should have been king, you or jon. you had the better claim, your grace. i told you to drink, not to argue. you made me king, you could at least have the courtesy to listen when i talk, damn you. look at me, ned. look at what kinging has done to me. gods, too fat for my armor, how did it ever come to this? robert... drink and stay quiet, the king is talking. i swear to you, i was never so alive as when i was winning this throne, or so dead as now that i've won it. and cersei... i have jon arryn to thank for her. i had no wish to marry after lyanna was taken from me, but jon said the realm needed an heir. cersei lannister would be a good match, he told me, she would bind lord tywin to me should viserys targaryen ever try to win back his father's throne. the king shook his head. i loved that old man, i swear it, but now i think he was a bigger fool than moon boy. oh, cersei is lovely to look at, truly, but cold... the way she guards her cunt, you'd think she had all the gold of casterly rock between her legs. here, give me that beer if you won't drink it. he took the horn, upended it, belched, wiped his mouth. i am sorry for your girl, ned. truly. about the wolf, i mean. my son was lying, i'd stake my soul on it. my son... you love your children, don't you? with all my heart, ned said. let me tell you a secret, ned. more than once, i have dreamed of giving up the crown. take ship for the free cities with my horse and my hammer, spend my time warring and whoring, that's what i was made for. the sellsword king, how the singers would love me. you know what stops me? the thought of joffrey on the throne, with cersei standing behind him whispering in his ear. my son. how could i have made a son like that, ned? he's only a boy, ned said awkwardly. he had small liking for prince joffrey, but he could hear the pain in robert's voice. have you forgotten how wild you were at his age? it would not trouble me if the boy was wild, ned. you don't know him as i do. he sighed and shook his head. ah, perhaps you are right. jon despaired of me often enough, yet i grew into a good king. robert looked at ned and scowled at his silence. you might speak up and agree now, you know. your grace... ned began, carefully. robert slapped ned on the back. ah, say that i'm a better king than aerys and be done with it. you never could lie for love nor honor, ned stark. i'm still young, and now that you're here with me, things will be different. we'll make this a reign to sing of, and damn the lannisters to seven hells. i smell bacon. who do you think our champion will be today? have you seen mace tyrell's boy? the knight of flowers, they call him. now there's a son any man would be proud to own to. last tourney, he dumped the kingslayer on his golden rump, you ought to have seen the look on cersei's face. i laughed till my sides hurt. renly says he has this sister, a maid of fourteen, lovely as a dawn... they broke their fast on black bread and boiled goose eggs and fish fried up with onions and bacon, at a trestle table by the river's edge. the king's melancholy melted away with the morning mist, and before long robert was eating an orange and waxing fond about a morning at the eyrie when they had been boys. ... had given jon a barrel of oranges, remember? only the things had gone rotten, so i flung mine across the table and hit dacks right in the nose. you remember, redfort's pock-faced squire? he tossed one back at me, and before jon could so much as fart, there were oranges flying across the high hall in every direction. he laughed uproariously, and even ned smiled, remembering. this was the boy he had grown up with, he thought; this was the robert baratheon he'd known and loved. if he could prove that the lannisters were behind the attack on bran, prove that they had murdered jon arryn, this man would listen. then cersei would fall, and the kingslayer with her, and if lord tywin dared to rouse the west, robert would smash him as he had smashed rhaegar targaryen on the trident. he could see it all so clearly. that breakfast tasted better than anything eddard stark had eaten in a long time, and afterward his smiles came easier and more often, until it was time for the tournament to resume. ned walked with the king to the jousting field. he had promised to watch the final tilts with sansa; septa mordane was ill today, and his daughter was determined not to miss the end of the jousting. as he saw robert to his place, he noted that cersei lannister had chosen not to appear; the place beside the king was empty. that too gave ned cause to hope. he shouldered his way to where his daughter was seated and found her as the horns blew for the day's first joust. sansa was so engrossed she scarcely seemed to notice his arrival. sandor clegane was the first rider to appear. he wore an olive-green cloak over his soot-grey armor. that, and his hound's-head helm, were his only concession to ornament. a hundred golden dragons on the kingslayer, littlefinger announced loudly as jaime lannister entered the lists, riding an elegant blood bay destrier. the horse wore a blanket of gilded ringmail, and jaime glittered from head to heel. even his lance was fashioned from the golden wood of the summer isles. done, lord renly shouted back. the hound has a hungry look about him this morning. even hungry dogs know better than to bite the hand that feeds them, littlefinger called dryly. sandor clegane dropped his visor with an audible clang and took up his position. ser jaime tossed a kiss to some woman in the commons, gently lowered his visor, and rode to the end of the lists. both men couched their lances. ned stark would have loved nothing so well as to see them both lose, but sansa was watching it all moist-eyed and eager. the hastily erected gallery trembled as the horses broke into a gallop. the hound leaned forward as he rode, his lance rock steady, but jaime shifted his seat deftly in the instant before impact. clegane's point was turned harmlessly against the golden shield with the lion blazon, while his own hit square. wood shattered, and the hound reeled, fighting to keep his seat. sansa gasped. a ragged cheer went up from the commons. i wonder how i ought spend your money, littlefinger called down to lord renly. the hound just managed to stay in his saddle. he jerked his mount around hard and rode back to the lists for the second pass. jaime lannister tossed down his broken lance and snatched up a fresh one, jesting with his squire. the hound spurred forward at a hard gallop. lannister rode to meet him. this time, when jaime shifted his seat, sandor clegane shifted with him. both lances exploded, and by the time the splinters had settled, a riderless blood bay was trotting off in search of grass while ser jaime lannister rolled in the dirt, golden and dented. sansa said, i knew the hound would win. littlefinger overheard. if you know who's going to win the second match, speak up now before lord renly plucks me clean, he called to her. ned smiled. a pity the imp is not here with us, lord renly said. i should have won twice as much. jaime lannister was back on his feet, but his ornate lion helmet had been twisted around and dented in his fall, and now he could not get it off. the commons were hooting and pointing, the lords and ladies were trying to stifle their chuckles, and failing, and over it all ned could hear king robert laughing, louder than anyone. finally they had to lead the lion of lannister off to a blacksmith, blind and stumbling. by then ser gregor clegane was in position at the head of the lists. he was huge, the biggest man that eddard stark had ever seen. robert baratheon and his brothers were all big men, as was the hound, and back at winterfell there was a simpleminded stableboy named hodor who dwarfed them all, but the knight they called the mountain that rides would have towered over hodor. he was well over seven feet tall, closer to eight, with massive shoulders and arms thick as the trunks of small trees. his destrier seemed a pony in between his armored legs, and the lance he carried looked as small as a broom handle. unlike his brother, ser gregor did not live at court. he was a solitary man who seldom left his own lands, but for wars and tourneys. he had been with lord tywin when king's landing fell, a new-made knight of seventeen years, even then distinguished by his size and his implacable ferocity. some said it had been gregor who'd dashed the skull of the infant prince aegon targaryen against a wall, and whispered that afterward he had raped the mother, the dornish princess elia, before putting her to the sword. these things were not said in gregor's hearing. ned stark could not recall ever speaking to the man, though gregor had ridden with them during balon greyjoy's rebellion, one knight among thousands. he watched him with disquiet. ned seldom put much stock in gossip, but the things said of ser gregor were more than ominous. he was soon to be married for the third time, and one heard dark whisperings about the deaths of his first two wives. it was said that his keep was a grim place where servants disappeared unaccountably and even the dogs were afraid to enter the hall. and there had been a sister who had died young under queer circumstances, and the fire that had disfigured his brother, and the hunting accident that had killed their father. gregor had inherited the keep, the gold, and the family estates. his younger brother sandor had left the same day to take service with the lannisters as a sworn sword, and it was said that he had never returned, not even to visit. when the knight of flowers made his entrance, a murmur ran through the crowd, and he heard sansa's fervent whisper, oh, he's so beautiful. ser loras tyrell was slender as a reed, dressed in a suit of fabulous silver armor polished to a blinding sheen and filigreed with twining black vines and tiny blue forget-me-nots. the commons realized in the same instant as ned that the blue of the flowers came from sapphires; a gasp went up from a thousand throats. across the boy's shoulders his cloak hung heavy. it was woven of forget-me-nots, real ones, hundreds of fresh blooms sewn to a heavy woolen cape. his courser was as slim as her rider, a beautiful grey mare, built for speed. ser gregor's huge stallion trumpeted as he caught her scent. the boy from highgarden did something with his legs, and his horse pranced sideways, nimble as a dancer. sansa clutched at his arm. father, don't let ser gregor hurt him, she said. ned saw she was wearing the rose that ser loras had given her yesterday. jory had told him about that as well. these are tourney lances, he told his daughter. they make them to splinter on impact, so no one is hurt. yet he remembered the dead boy in the cart with his cloak of crescent moons, and the words were raw in his throat. ser gregor was having trouble controlling his horse. the stallion was screaming and pawing the ground, shaking his head. the mountain kicked at the animal savagely with an armored boot. the horse reared and almost threw him. the knight of flowers saluted the king, rode to the far end of the list, and couched his lance, ready. ser gregor brought his animal to the line, fighting with the reins. and suddenly it began. the mountain's stallion broke in a hard gallop, plunging forward wildly, while the mare charged as smooth as a flow of silk. ser gregor wrenched his shield into position, juggled with his lance, and all the while fought to hold his unruly mount on a straight line, and suddenly loras tyrell was on him, placing the point of his lance just there, and in an eye blink the mountain was failing. he was so huge that he took his horse down with him in a tangle of steel and flesh. ned heard applause, cheers, whistles, shocked gasps, excited muttering, and over it all the rasping, raucous laughter of the hound. the knight of flowers reined up at the end of the lists. his lance was not even broken. his sapphires winked in the sun as he raised his visor, smiling. the commons went mad for him. in the middle of the field, ser gregor clegane disentangled himself and came boiling to his feet. he wrenched off his helm and slammed it down onto the ground. his face was dark with fury and his hair fell down into his eyes. my sword, he shouted to his squire, and the boy ran it out to him. by then his stallion was back on its feet as well. gregor clegane killed the horse with a single blow of such ferocity that it half severed the animal's neck. cheers turned to shrieks in a heartbeat. the stallion went to its knees, screaming as it died. by then gregor was striding down the lists toward ser loras tyrell, his bloody sword clutched in his fist. stop him! ned shouted, but his words were lost in the roar. everyone else was yelling as well, and sansa was crying. it all happened so fast. the knight of flowers was shouting for his own sword as ser gregor knocked his squire aside and made a grab for the reins of his horse. the mare scented blood and reared. loras tyrell kept his seat, but barely. ser gregor swung his sword, a savage twohanded blow that took the boy in the chest and knocked him from the saddle. the courser dashed away in panic as ser loras lay stunned in the dirt. but as gregor lifted his sword for the killing blow, a rasping voice warned, leave him be, and a steel-clad hand wrenched him away from the boy. the mountain pivoted in wordless fury, swinging his longsword in a killing arc with all his massive strength behind it, but the hound caught the blow and turned it, and for what seemed an eternity the two brothers stood hammering at each other as a dazed loras tyrell was helped to safety. thrice ned saw ser gregor aim savage blows at the hound's-head helmet, yet not once did sandor send a cut at his brother's unprotected face. it was the king's voice that put an end to it... the king's voice and twenty swords. jon arryn had told them that a commander needs a good battlefield voice, and robert had proved the truth of that on the trident. he used that voice now. stop this madness, he boomed, in the name of your king! the hound went to one knee. ser gregor's blow cut air, and at last he came to his senses. he dropped his sword and glared at robert, surrounded by his kingsguard and a dozen other knights and guardsmen. wordlessly, he turned and strode off, shoving past barristan selmy. let him go, robert said, and as quickly as that, it was over. is the hound the champion now? sansa asked ned. no, he told her. there will be one final joust, between the hound and the knight of flowers. but sansa had the right of it after all. a few moments later ser loras tyrell walked back onto the field in a simple linen doublet and said to sandor clegane, i owe you my life. the day is yours, ser. i am no ser, the hound replied, but he took the victory, and the champion's purse, and, for perhaps the first time in his life, the love of the commons. they cheered him as he left the lists to return to his pavilion. as ned walked with sansa to the archery field, little finger and lord renly and some of the others fell in with them. tyrell had to know the mare was in heat, littlefinger was saying. i swear the boy planned the whole thing. gregor has always favored huge, ill-tempered stallions with more spirit than sense. the notion seemed to amuse him. it did not amuse ser barristan selmy. there is small honor in tricks, the old man said stiffly. small honor and twenty thousand golds. lord renly smiled. that afternoon a boy named anguy, an unheralded commoner from the dornish marches, won the archery competition, outshooting ser balon swann and jalabhar xho at a hundred paces after all the other bowmen had been eliminated at the shorter distances. ned sent alyn to seek him out and offer him a position with the hand's guard, but the boy was flush with wine and victory and riches undreamed of, and he refused. the melee went on for three hours. near forty men took part, freeriders and hedge knights and new-made squires in search of a reputation. they fought with blunted weapons in a chaos of mud and blood, small troops fighting together and then turning on each other as alliances formed and fractured, until only one man was left standing. the victor was the red priest, thoros of myr, a madman who shaved his head and fought with a flaming sword. he had won melees before; the fire sword frightened the mounts of the other riders, and nothing frightened thoros. the final tally was three broken limbs, a shattered collarbone, a dozen smashed fingers, two horses that had to be put down, and more cuts, sprains, and bruises than anyone cared to count. ned was desperately pleased that robert had not taken part. that night at the feast, eddard stark was more hopeful than he had been in a great while. robert was in high good humor, the lannisters were nowhere to be seen, and even his daughters were behaving. jory brought arya down to join them, and sansa spoke to her sister pleasantly. the tournament was magnificent, she sighed. you should have come. how was your dancing? i'm sore all over, arya reported happily, proudly displaying a huge purple bruise on her leg. you must be a terrible dancer, sansa said doubtfully. later, while sansa was off listening to a troupe of singers perform the complex round of interwoven ballads called the dance of the dragons, ned inspected the bruise himself. i hope forel is not being too hard on you, he said. arya stood on one leg. she was getting much better at that of late. syrio says that every hurt is a lesson, and every lesson makes you better. ned frowned. the man syrio forel had come with an excellent reputation, and his flamboyant braavosi style was well suited to arya's slender blade, yet still... a few days ago, she had been wandering around with a swatch of black silk tied over her eyes. syrio was teaching her to see with her ears and her nose and her skin, she told him. before that, he had her doing spins and back flips. arya, are you certain you want to persist in this? she nodded. tomorrow we're going to catch cats. cats. ned sighed. perhaps it was a mistake to hire this braavosi. if you like, i will ask jory to take over your lessons. or i might have a quiet word with ser barristan. he was the finest sword in the seven kingdoms in his youth. i don't want them, arya said. i want syrio. ned ran his fingers through his hair. any decent master-at-arms could give arya the rudiments of slash-and-parry without this nonsense of blindfolds, cartwheels, and hopping about on one leg, but he knew his youngest daughter well enough to know there was no arguing with that stubborn jut of jaw. as you wish, he said. surely she would grow tired of this soon. try to be careful. i will, she promised solemnly as she hopped smoothly from her right leg to her left. much later, after he had taken the girls back through the city and seen them both safe in bed, sansa with her dreams and arya with her bruises, ned ascended to his own chambers atop the tower of the hand. the day had been warm and the room was close and stuffy. ned went to the window and unfastened the heavy shutters to let in the cool night air. across the great yard, he noticed the flickering glow of candlelight from little finger's windows. the hour was well past midnight. down by the river, the revels were only now beginning to dwindle and die. he took out the dagger and studied it. littlefinger's blade, won by tyrion lannister in a tourney wager, sent to slay bran in his sleep. why? why would the dwarf want bran dead? why would anyone want bran dead? the dagger, bran's fall, all of it was linked somehow to the murder of jon arryn, he could feel it in his gut, but the truth of jon's death remained as clouded to him as when he had started. lord stannis had not returned to king's landing for the tourney. lysa arryn held her silence behind the high walls of the eyrie. the squire was dead, and jory was still searching the whorehouses. what did he have but robert's bastard? that the armorer's sullen apprentice was the king's son, ned had no doubt. the baratheon look was stamped on his face, in his jaw, his eyes, that black hair. renly was too young to have fathered a boy of that age, stannis too cold and proud in his honor. gendry had to be robert's. yet knowing all that, what had he learned? the king had other baseborn children scattered throughout the seven kingdoms. he had openly acknowledged one of his bastards, a boy of bran's age whose mother was highborn. the lad was being fostered by lord renly's castellan at storm's end. ned remembered robert's first child as well, a daughter born in the vale when robert was scarcely more than a boy himself. a sweet little girl; the young lord of storm's end had doted on her. he used to make daily visits to play with the babe, long after he had lost interest in the mother. ned was often dragged along for company, whether he willed it or not. the girl would be seventeen or eighteen now, he realized; older than robert had been when he fathered her. a strange thought. cersei could not have been pleased by her lord husband's by-blows, yet in the end it mattered little whether the king had one bastard or a hundred. law and custom gave the baseborn few rights. gendry, the girl in the vale, the boy at storm's end, none of them could threaten robert's trueborn children... his musings were ended by a soft rap on his door. a man to see you, my lord, harwin called. he will not give his name. send him in, ned said, wondering. the visitor was a stout man in cracked, mud-caked boots and a heavy brown robe of the coarsest roughspun, his features hidden by a cowl, his hands drawn up into voluminous sleeves. who are you? ned asked. a friend, the cowled man said in a strange, low voice. we must speak alone, lord stark. curiosity was stronger than caution. harwin, leave us, he commanded. not until they were alone behind closed doors did his visitor draw back his cowl. lord varys? ned said in astonishment. lord stark, varys said politely, seating himself. i wonder if i might trouble you for a drink? ned filled two cups with summerwine and handed one to varys. i might have passed within a foot of you and never recognized you, he said, incredulous. he had never seen the eunuch dress in anything but silk and velvet and the richest damasks, and this man smelled of sweat instead of lilacs. that was my dearest hope, varys said. it would not do if certain people learned that we had spoken in private. the queen watches you closely. this wine is very choice. thank you. how did you get past my other guards? ned asked. porther and cayn had been posted outside the tower, and alyn on the stairs. the red keep has ways known only to ghosts and spiders. varys smiled apologetically. i will not keep you long, my lord. there are things you must know. you are the king's hand, and the king is a fool. the eunuch's cloying tones were gone; now his voice was thin and sharp as a whip. your friend, i know, yet a fool nonetheless... and doomed, unless you save him. today was a near thing. they had hoped to kill him during the melee. for a moment ned was speechless with shock. who? varys sipped his wine. if i truly need to tell you that, you are a bigger fool than robert and i am on the wrong side. the lannisters, ned said. the queen... no, i will not believe that, not even of cersei. she asked him not to fight! she forbade him to fight, in front of his brother, his knights, and half the court. tell me truly, do you know any surer way to force king robert into the melee? i ask you. ned had a sick feeling in his gut. the eunuch had hit upon a truth; tell robert baratheon he could not, should not, or must not do a thing, and it was as good as done. even if he'd fought, who would have dared to strike the king? varys shrugged. there were forty riders in the melee. the lannisters have many friends. amidst all that chaos, with horses screaming and bones breaking and thoros of myr waving that absurd firesword of his, who could name it murder if some chance blow felled his grace? he went to the flagon and refilled his cup. after the deed was done, the slayer would be beside himself with grief. i can almost hear him weeping. so sad. yet no doubt the gracious and compassionate widow would take pity, lift the poor unfortunate to his feet, and bless him with a gentle kiss of forgiveness. good king joffrey would have no choice but to pardon him. the eunuch stroked his cheek. or perhaps cersei would let ser ilyn strike off his head. less risk for the lannisters that way, though quite an unpleasant surprise for their little friend. ned felt his anger rise. you knew of this plot, and yet you did nothing. i command whisperers, not warriors. you might have come to me earlier. oh, yes, i confess it. and you would have rushed straight to the king, yes? and when robert heard of his peril, what would he have done? i wonder. ned considered that. he would have damned them all, and fought anyway, to show he did not fear them. varys spread his hands. i will make another confession, lord eddard. i was curious to see what you would do. why not come to me? you ask, and i must answer, why, because i did not trust you, my lord. you did not trust me? ned was frankly astonished. the red keep shelters two sorts of people, lord eddard, varys said. those who are loyal to the realm, and those who are loyal only to themselves. until this morning, i could not say which you might be... so i waited to see... and now i know, for a certainty. he smiled a plump tight little smile, and for a moment his private face and public mask were one. i begin to comprehend why the queen fears you so much. oh, yes i do. you are the one she ought to fear, ned said. no. i am what i am. the king makes use of me, but it shames him. a most puissant warrior is our robert, and such a manly man has little love for sneaks and spies and eunuchs. if a day should come when cersei whispers,'kill that man,' ilyn payne will snick my head off in a twinkling, and who will mourn poor varys then? north or south, they sing no songs for spiders. he reached out and touched ned with a soft hand. but you, lord stark... i think... no, i know... he would not kill you, not even for his queen, and there may lie our salvation. it was all too much. for a moment eddard stark wanted nothing so much as to return to winterfell, to the clean simplicity of the north, where the enemies were winter and the wildlings beyond the wall. surely robert has other loyal friends, he protested. his brothers, his- -wife? varys finished, with a smile that cut. his brothers hate the lannisters, true enough, but hating the queen and loving the king are not quite the same thing, are they? ser barristan loves his honor, grand maester pycelle loves his office, and littlefinger loves littlefinger. the kingsguard- a paper shield, the eunuch said. try not to look so shocked, lord stark. jaime lannister is himself a sworn brother of the white swords, and we all know what his oath is worth. the days when men like ryam redwyne and prince aemon the dragonknight wore the white cloak are gone to dust and song. of these seven, only ser barristan selmy is made of the true steel, and selmy is old. ser boros and ser meryn are the queen's creatures to the bone, and i have deep suspicions of the others. no, my lord, when the swords come out in earnest, you will be the only true friend robert baratheon will have. robert must be told, ned said. if what you say is true, if even a part of it is true, the king must hear it for himself. and what proof shall we lay before him? my words against theirs? my little birds against the queen and the kingslayer, against his brothers and his council, against the wardens of east and west, against all the might of caster ly rock? pray, send for ser ilyn directly, it will save us all some time. i know where that road ends. yet if what you say is true, they will only bide their time and make another attempt. indeed they will, said varys, and sooner rather than later, i do fear. you are making them most anxious, lord eddard. but my little birds will be listening, and together we may be able to forestall them, you and u' he rose and pulled up his cowl so his face was hidden once more. thank you for the wine. we will speak again. when you see me next at council, be certain to treat me with your accustomed contempt. you should not find it difficult. he was at the door when ned called, varys. the eunuch turned back. how did jon arryn die? i wondered when you would get around to that. tell me. the tears of lys, they call it. a rare and costly thing, clear and sweet as water, and it leaves no trace. i begged lord arryn to use a taster, in this very room i begged him, but he would not hear of it. only one who was less than a man would even think of such a thing, he told me. ned had to know the rest. who gave him the poison? some dear sweet friend who often shared meat and mead with him, no doubt. oh, but which one? there were many such. lord arryn was a kindly, trusting man. the eunuch sighed. there was one boy. all he was, he owed jon arryn, but when the widow fled to the eyrie with her household, he stayed in king's landing and prospered. it always gladdens my heart to see the young rise in the world. the whip was in his voice again, every word a stroke. he must have cut a gallant figure in the tourney, him in his bright new armor, with those crescent moons on his cloak. a pity he died so untimely, before you could talk to him... ned felt half-poisoned himself. the squire, he said. ser hugh. wheels within wheels within wheels. ned's head was pounding. why? why now? jon arryn had been hand for fourteen years. what was he doing that they had to kill him? asking questions, varys said, slipping out the door. robert, i beg of you, ned pleaded, hear what you are saying. you are talking of murdering a child. the whore is pregnant! the king's fist slammed down on the council table loud as a thunderclap. i warned you this would happen, ned. back in the barrowlands, i warned you, but you did not care to hear it. well, you'll hear it now. i want them dead, mother and child both, and that fool viserys as well. is that plain enough for you? i want them dead. the other councillors were all doing their best to pretend that they were somewhere else. no doubt they were wiser than he was. eddard stark had seldom felt quite so alone. you will dishonor yourself forever if you do this. then let it be on my head, so long as it is done. i am not so blind that i cannot see the shadow of the axe when it is hanging over my own neck. there is no axe, ned told his king. only the shadow of a shadow, twenty years removed... if it exists at all. if? varys asked softly, wringing powdered hands together. my lord, you wrong me. would i bring ties to king and council? ned looked at the eunuch coldly. you would bring us the whisperings of a traitor half a world away, my lord. perhaps mormont is wrong. perhaps he is lying. ser jorah would not dare deceive me, varys said with a sly smile. rely on it, my lord. the princess is with child. so you say. if you are wrong, we need not fear. if the girl miscarries, we need not fear. if she births a daughter in place of a son, we need not fear. if the babe dies in infancy, we need not fear. but if it is a boy? robert insisted. if he lives? the narrow sea would still lie between us. i shall fear the dothraki the day they teach their horses to run on water. the king took a swallow of wine and glowered at ned across the council table. so you would counsel me to do nothing until the dragonspawn has landed his army on my shores, is that it? this'dragonspawn' is in his mother's belly, ned said. even aegon did no conquering until after he was weaned. gods! you are stubborn as an aurochs, stark. the king looked around the council table. have the rest of you mislaid your tongues? will no one talk sense to this frozen- faced fool? varys gave the king an unctuous smile and laid a soft hand on ned's sleeve. i understand your qualms, lord eddard, truly i do. it gave me no joy to bring this grievous news to council. it is a terrible thing we contemplate, a vile thing. yet we who presume to rule must do vile things for the good of the realm, howevermuch it pains us. lord renly shrugged. the matter seems simple enough to me. we ought to have had viserys and his sister killed years ago, but his grace my brother made the mistake of listening to jon arryn. mercy is never a mistake, lord renly, ned replied. on the trident, ser barristan here cut down a dozen good men, robert's friends and mine. when they brought him to us, grievously wounded and near death, roose bolton urged us to cut his throat, but your brother said, t will not kill a man for loyalty, nor for fighting well,' and sent his own maester to tend ser barristan's wounds. he gave the king a long cool look. would that man were here today. robert had shame enough to blush. it was not the same, he complained. ser barristan was a knight of the kingsguard. whereas daenerys is a fourteen- year-old girl. ned knew he was pushing this well past the point of wisdom, yet he could not keep silent. robert, i ask you, what did we rise against aerys targaryen for, if not to put an end to the murder of children? to put an end to targaryens! the king growled. your grace, i never knew you to fear rhaegar. ned fought to keep the scorn out of his voice, and failed. have the years so unmanned you that you tremble at the shadow of an unborn child? robert purpled. no more, ned, he warned, pointing. not another word. have you forgotten who is king here? no, your grace, ned replied. have you? enough! the king bellowed. i am sick of talk. i'll be done with this, or be damned. what say you all? she must be killed, lord renly declared. we have no choice, murmured varys. sadly, sadly ser barristan selmy raised his pale blue eyes from the table and said, your grace, there is honor in facing an enemy on the battlefield, but none in killing him in his mother's womb. forgive me, but i must stand with lord eddard. grand maester pycelle cleared his throat, a process that seemed to take some minutes. my order serves the realm, not the ruler. once i counseled king aerys as loyally as i counsel king robert now, so i bear this girl child of his no ill will. yet i ask you this-should war come again, how many soldiers will die? how many towns will burn? how many children will be ripped from their mothers to perish on the end of a spear? he stroked his luxuriant white beard, infinitely sad, infinitely weary. is it not wiser, even kinder, that daenerys targaryen should die now so that tens of thousands might live? kinder, varys said. oh, well and truly spoken, grand maester. it is so true. should the gods in their caprice grant daenerys targaryen a son, the realm must bleed. littlefinger was the last. as ned looked to him, lord petyr stifled a yawn. when you find yourself in bed with an ugly woman, the best thing to do is close your eyes and get on with it, he declared. waiting won't make the maid any prettier. kiss her and be done with it. kiss her? ser barristan repeated, aghast. a steel kiss, said littlefinger. robert turned to face his hand. well, there it is, ned. you and selmy stand alone on this matter. the only question that remains is, who can we find to kill her? mormont craves a royal pardon, lord renly reminded them. desperately, varys said, yet he craves life even more. by now, the princess nears vaes dothrak, where it is death to draw a blade. if i told you what the dothraki would do to the poor man who used one on a khaleesi, none of you would sleep tonight. he stroked a powdered cheek. now, poison... the tears of lys, let us say. khal drogo need never know it was not a natural death. grand maester pycelle's sleepy eyes flicked open. he squinted suspiciously at the eunuch. poison is a coward's weapon, the king complained. ned had heard enough. you send hired knives to kill a fourteen year-old girl and still quibble about honor? he pushed back his chair and stood. do it yourself, robert. the man who passes the sentence should swing the sword. look her in the eyes before you kill her. see her tears, hear her last words. you owe her that much at least. gods, the king swore, the word exploding out of him as if he could barely contain his fury. you mean it, damn you. he reached for the flagon of wine at his elbow, found it empty, and flung it away to shatter against the wall. i am out of wine and out of patience. enough of this. just have it done. i will not be part of murder, robert. do as you will, but do not ask me to fix my seal to it. for a moment robert did not seem to understand what ned was saying. defiance was not a dish he tasted often. slowly his face changed as comprehension came. his eyes narrowed and a flush crept up his neck past the velvet collar. he pointed an angry finger at ned. you are the king's hand, lord stark. you will do as i command you, or i'll find me a hand who will. i wish him every success. ned unfastened the heavy clasp that clutched at the folds of his cloak, the ornate silver hand that was his badge of office. he laid it on the table in front of the king, saddened by the memory of the man who had pinned it on him, the friend he had loved. i thought you a better man than this, robert. i thought we had made a nobler king. robert's face was purple. out, he croaked, choking on his rage. out, damn you, i'm done with you. what are you waiting for? go, run back to winterfell. and make certain i never look on your face again, or i swear, i'll have your head on a spike! ned bowed, and turned on his heel without another word. he could feel robert's eyes on his back. as he strode from the council chambers, the discussion resumed with scarcely a pause. on braavos there is a society called the faceless men, grand maester pycelle offered. do you have any idea how costly they are? littlefinger complained. you could hire an army of common sellswords for half the price, and that's for a merchant. i don't dare think what they might ask for a princess. the closing of the door behind him silenced the voices. ser boros blount was stationed outside the chamber, wearing the long white cloak and armor of the kingsguard. he gave ned a quick, curious glance from the corner of his eye, but asked no questions. the day felt heavy and oppressive as he crossed the bailey back to the tower of the hand. he could feel the threat of rain in the air. ned would have welcomed it. it might have made him feel a trifle less unclean. when he reached his solar, he summoned vayon poole. the steward came at once. you sent for me, my lord hand? hand no longer, ned told him. the king and i have quarreled. we shall be returning to winterfell. i shall begin making arrangements at once, my lord. we will need a fortnight to ready everything for the journey. we may not have a fortnight. we may not have a day. the king mentioned something about seeing my head on a spike. ned frowned. he did not truly believe the king would harm him, not robert. he was angry now, but once ned was safely out of sight, his rage would cool as it always did. always? suddenly, uncomfortably, he found himself recalling rhaegar targaryen. fifteen years dead, yet robert hates him as much as ever. it was a disturbing notion... and there was the other matter, the business with catelyn and the dwarf that yoren had warned him of last night. that would come to light soon, as sure as sunrise, and with the king in such a black fury... robert might not care a fig for tyrion lannister, but it would touch on his pride, and there was no telling what the queen might do. it might be safest if i went on ahead, he told poole. i will take my daughters and a few guardsmen. the rest of you can follow when you are ready. inform jory, but tell no one else, and do nothing until the girls and i have gone. the castle is full of eyes and ears, and i would rather my plans were not known. as you command, my lord. when he had gone, eddard stark went to the window and sat brooding. robert had left him no choice that he could see. he ought to thank him. it would be good to return to winterfell. he ought never have left. his sons were waiting there. perhaps he and catelyn would make a new son together when he returned, they were not so old yet. and of late he had often found himself dreaming of snow, of the deep quiet of the wolfswood at night. and yet, the thought of leaving angered him as well. so much was still undone. robert and his council of cravens and flatterers would beggar the realm if left unchecked... or, worse, sell it to the lannisters in payment of their loans. and the truth of jon arryn's death still eluded him. oh, he had found a few pieces, enough to convince him that jon had indeed been murdered, but that was no more than the spoor of an animal on the forest floor. he had not sighted the beast itself yet, though he sensed it was there, lurking, hidden, treacherous. it struck him suddenly that he might return to winterfell by sea. ned was no sailor, and ordinarily would have preferred the kingsroad, but if he took ship he could stop at dragonstone and speak with stannis baratheon. pycelle had sent a raven off across the water, with a polite letter from ned requesting lord stannis to return to his seat on the small council. as yet, there had been no reply, but the silence only deepened his suspicions. lord stannis shared the secret jon arryn had died for, he was certain of it. the truth he sought might very well be waiting for him on the ancient island fortress of house targaryen. and when you have it, what then? some secrets are safer kept hidden. some secrets are too dangerous to share, even with those you love and trust. ned slid the dagger that catelyn had brought him out of the sheath on his belt. the imp's knife. why would the dwarf want bran dead? to silence him, surely. another secret, or only a different strand of the same web? could robert be part of it? he would not have thought so, but once he would not have thought robert could command the murder of women and children either. catelyn had tried to warn him. you knew the man, she had said. the king is a stranger to you. the sooner he was quit of king's landing, the better. if there was a ship sailing north on the morrow, it would be well to be on it. he summoned vayon poole again and sent him to the docks to make inquiries, quietly but quickly. find me a fast ship with a skilled captain, he told the steward. i care nothing for the size of its cabins or the quality of its appointments, so long as it is swift and safe. i wish to leave at once. poole had no sooner taken his leave than tomard announced a visitor. lord baelish to see you, m'lord. ned was half-tempted to turn him away, but thought better of it. he was not free yet; until he was, he must play their games. show him in, tom. lord petyr sauntered into the solar as if nothing had gone amiss that morning. he wore a slashed velvet doublet in cream-and-silver, a grey silk cloak trimmed with black fox, and his customary mocking smile. ned greeted him coldly. might i ask the reason for this visit, lord baelish? i won't detain you long, i'm on my way to dine with lady tanda. lamprey pie and roast suckling pig. she has some thought to wed me to her younger daughter, so her table is always astonishing. if truth be told, i'd sooner marry the pig, but don't tell her. i do love lamprey pie. don't let me keep you from your eels, my lord, ned said with icy disdain. at the moment, i cannot think of anyone whose company i desire less than yours. oh, i'm certain if you put your mind to it, you could come up with a few names. varys, say. cersei. or robert. his grace is most wroth with you. he went on about you at some length after you took your leave of us this morning. the words insolence and ingratitude came into it frequently, i seem to recall. ned did not honor that with a reply. nor did he offer his guest a seat, but littlefinger took one anyway. after you stormed out, it was left to me to convince them not to hire the faceless men, he continued blithely. instead varys will quietly let it be known that we'll make a lord of whoever does in the targaryen girl. ned was disgusted. so now we grant titles to assassins. littlefinger shrugged. titles are cheap. the faceless men are expensive. if truth be told, i did the targaryen girl more good than you with all your talk of honor. let some sellsword drunk on visions of lordship try to kill her. likely he'll make a botch of it, and afterward the dothraki will be on their guard. if we'd sent a faceless man after her, she'd be as good as buried. ned frowned. you sit in council and talk of ugly women and steel kisses, and now you expect me to believe that you tried to protect the girl? how big a fool do you take me for? well, quite an enormous one, actually, said littlefinger, laughing. do you always find murder so amusing, lord baelish? it's not murder i find amusing, lord stark, it's you. you rule like a man dancing on rotten ice. i daresay you will make a noble splash. i believe i heard the first crack this morning. the first and last, said ned. i've had my fill. when do you mean to return to winterfell, my lord? as soon as i can. what concern is that of yours? none... but if perchance you're still here come evenfall, i'd be pleased to take you to this brothel your man jory has been searching for so ineffectually. littlefinger smiled. and i won't even tell the lady catelyn. he found littlefinger in the brothel's common room, chatting amiably with a tall, elegant woman who wore a feathered gown over skin as black as ink. by the hearth, heward and a buxom wench were playing at forfeits. from the look of it, he'd lost his belt, his cloak, his mail shirt, and his right boot so far, while the girl had been forced to unbutton her shift to the waist. jory cassel stood beside a rain-streaked window with a wry smile on his face, watching heward turn over tiles and enjoying the view. ned paused at the foot of the stair and pulled on his gloves. it's time we took our leave. my business here is done. heward lurched to his feet, hurriedly gathering up his things. as you will, my lord, jory said. i'll help wyl bring round the horses. he strode to the door. littlefinger took his time saying his farewells. he kissed the black woman's hand, whispered some joke that made her laugh aloud, and sauntered over to ned. your business, he said lightly, or robert's? they say the hand dreams the king's dreams, speaks with the king's voice, and rules with the king's sword. does that also mean you fuck with the king's- lord baelish, ned interrupted, you presume too much. i am not ungrateful for your help. it might have taken us years to find this brothel without you. that does not mean i intend to endure your mockery. and i am no longer the king's hand. the direwolf must be a prickly beast, said littlefinger with a sharp twist of his mouth. a warm rain was pelting down from a starless black sky as they walked to the stables. ned drew up the hood of his cloak. jory brought out his horse. young wyl came right behind him, leading littlefinger's mare with one hand while the other fumbled with his belt and the lacings of his trousers. a barefoot whore leaned out of the stable door, giggling at him. will we be going back to the castle now, my lord? jory asked. ned nodded and swung into the saddle. littlefinger mounted up beside him. jory and the others followed. chataya runs a choice establishment, littlefinger said as they rode. i've half a mind to buy it. brothels are a much sounder investment than ships, i've found. whores seldom sink, and when they are boarded by pirates, why, the pirates pay good coin like everyone else. lord petyr chuckled at his own wit. ned let him prattle on. after a time, he quieted and they rode in silence. the streets of king's landing were dark and deserted. the rain had driven everyone under their roofs. it beat down on ned's head, warm as blood and relentless as old guilts. fat drops of water ran down his face. robert will never keep to one bed, lyanna had told him at winterfell, on the night long ago when their father had promised her hand to the young lord of storm's end. i hear he has gotten a child on some girl in the vale. ned had held the babe in his arms; he could scarcely deny her, nor would he lie to his sister, but he had assured her that what robert did before their betrothal was of no matter, that he was a good man and true who would love her with all his heart. lyanna had only smiled. love is sweet, dearest ned, but it cannot change a man's nature. the girl had been so young ned had not dared to ask her age. no doubt she'd been a virgin; the better brothels could always find a virgin, if the purse was fat enough. she had light red hair and a powdering of freckles across the bridge of her nose, and when she slipped free a breast to give her nipple to the babe, he saw that her bosom was freckled as well. i named her barra, she said as the child nursed. she looks so like him, does she not, milord? she has his nose, and his hair... she does. eddard stark had touched the baby's fine, dark hair. it flowed through his fingers like black silk. robert's firstborn had had the same fine hair, he seemed to recall. tell him that when you see him, milord, as it... as it please you. tell him how beautiful she is. i will, ned had promised her. that was his curse. robert would swear undying love and forget them before evenfall, but ned stark kept his vows. he thought of the promises he'd made lyanna as she lay dying, and the price he'd paid to keep them. and tell him i've not been with no one else. i swear it, milord, by the old gods and new. chataya said i could have half a year, for the baby, and for hoping he'd come back. so you'll tell him i'm waiting, won't you? i don't want no jewels or nothing, just him. he was always good to me, truly. good to you, ned thought hollowly. i will tell him, child, and i promise you, barra shall not go wanting. she had smiled then, a smile so tremulous and sweet that it cut the heart out of him. riding through the rainy night, ned saw jon snow's face in front of him, so like a younger version of his own. if the gods frowned so on bastards, he thought dully, why did they fill men with such lusts? lord baelish, what do you know of robert's bastards? well, he has more than you, for a start. how many? little finger shrugged. rivulets of moisture twisted down the back of his cloak. does it matter? if you bed enough women, some will give you presents, and his grace has never been shy on that count. i know he's acknowledged that boy at storm's end, the one he fathered the night lord stannis wed. he could hardly do otherwise. the mother was a florent, niece to the lady selyse, one of her bedmaids. renly says that robert carried the girl upstairs during the feast, and broke in the wedding bed while stannis and his bride were still dancing. lord stannis seemed to think that was a blot on the honor of his wife's house, so when the boy was born, he shipped him off to renly. he gave ned a sideways glance. i've also heard whispers that robert got a pair of twins on a serving wench at casterly rock, three years ago when he went west for lord tywin's tourney. cersei had the babes killed, and sold the mother to a passing slaver. too much an affront to lannister pride, that close to home. ned stark grimaced. ugly tales like that were told of every great lord in the realm. he could believe it of cersei lannister readily enough... but would the king stand by and let it happen? the robert he had known would not have, but the robert he had known had never been so practiced at shutting his eyes to things he did not wish to see. why would jon arryn take a sudden interest in the king's baseborn children? the short man gave a sodden shrug. he was the king's hand. doubtless robert asked him to see that they were provided for. ned was soaked through to the bone, and his soul had grown cold. it had to be more than that, or why kill him? littlefinger shook the rain from his hair and laughed. now i see. lord arryn learned that his grace had filled the bellies of some whores and fishwives, and for that he had to be silenced. small wonder. allow a man like that to live, and next he's like to blurt out that the sun rises in the east. there was no answer ned stark could give to that but a frown. for the first time in years, he found himself remembering rhaegar targaryen. he wondered if rhaegar had frequented brothels; somehow he thought not. the rain was falling harder now, stinging the eyes and drumming against the ground. rivers of black water were running down the hill when jory called out, my lord, his voice hoarse with alarm. and in an instant, the street was full of soldiers. ned glimpsed ringmail over leather, gauntlets and greaves, steel helms with golden lions on the crests. their cloaks clung to their backs, sodden with rain. he had no time to count, but there were ten at least, a line of them, on foot, blocking the street, with longswords and irontipped spears. behind! he heard wyl cry, and when he turned his horse, there were more in back of them, cutting off their retreat. jory's sword came singing from its scabbard. make way or die! the wolves are howling, their leader said. ned could see rain running down his face. such a small pack, though. littlefinger walked his horse forward, step by careful step. what is the meaning of this? this is the hand of the king. he was the hand of the king. the mud muffled the hooves of the blood bay stallion. the line parted before him. on a golden breastplate, the lion of lannister roared its defiance. now, if truth be told, i'm not sure what he is. lannister, this is madness, littlefinger said. let us pass. we are expected back at the castle. what do you think you're doing? he knows what he's doing, ned said calmly. jaime lannister smiled. quite true. i'm looking for my brother. you remember my brother, don't you, lord stark? he was with us at winterfell. fair-haired, mismatched eyes, sharp of tongue. a short man. i remember him well, ned replied. it would seem he has met some trouble on the road. my lord father is quite vexed. you would not perchance have any notion of who might have wished my brother ill, would you? your brother has been taken at my command, to answer for his crimes, ned stark said. littlefinger groaned in dismay. my lords- ser jaime ripped his longsword from its sheath and urged his stallion forward. show me your steel, lord eddard. i'll butcher you like aerys if i must, but i'd sooner you died with a blade in your hand. he gave littlefinger a cool, contemptuous glance. lord baelish, i'd leave here in some haste if i did not care to get bloodstains on my costly clothing. littlefinger did not need to be urged. i will bring the city watch, he promised ned. the lannister line parted to let him through, and closed behind him. littlefinger put his heels to his mare and vanished around a corner. ned's men had drawn their swords, but they were three against twenty. eyes watched from nearby windows and doors, but no one was about to intervene. his party was mounted, the lannisters on foot save for jaime himself. a charge might win them free, but it seemed to eddard stark that they had a surer, safer tactic. kill me, he warned the kingslayer, and catelyn will most certainly slay tyrion. jaime lannister poked at ned's chest with the gilded sword that had sipped the blood of the last of the dragonkings. would she? the noble catelyn tully of riverrun murder a hostage? i think... not. he sighed. but i am not willing to chance my brother's life on a woman's honor. jaime slid the golden sword into its sheath. so i suppose i'll let you run back to robert to tell him how i frightened you. i wonder if he'll care. jaime pushed his wet hair back with his fingers and wheeled his horse around. when he was beyond the line of swordsmen, he glanced back at his captain. tregar, see that no harm comes to lord stark. as you say, m'lord. still... we wouldn't want him to leave here entirely unc hastened, so-through the night and the rain, he glimpsed the white of jaime's smile-kill his men. no! ned stark screamed, clawing for his sword. jaime was already cantering off down the street as he heard wyl shout. men closed from both sides. ned rode one down, cutting at phantoms in red cloaks who gave way before him. jory cassel put his heels into his mount and charged. a steel-shod hoof caught a lannister guardsman in the face with a sickening crunch. a second man reeled away and for an instant jory was free. wyl cursed as they pulled him off his dying horse, swords slashing in the rain. ned galloped to him, bringing his longsword down on tregar's helm. the jolt of impact made him grit his teeth. tregar stumbled to his knees, his lion crest sheared in half, blood running down his face. heward was hacking at the hands that had seized his bridle when a spear caught him in the belly. suddenly jory was back among them, a red rain flying from his sword. no! ned shouted. jory, away! ned's horse slipped under him and came crashing down in the mud. there was a moment of blinding pain and the taste of blood in his mouth. he saw them cut the legs from jory's mount and drag him to the earth, swords rising and failing as they closed in around him. when ned's horse lurched back to its feet, he tried to rise, only to fall again, choking on his scream. he could see the splintered bone poking through his calf. it was the last thing he saw for a time. the rain came down and down and down. when he opened his eyes again, lord eddard stark was alone with his dead. his horse moved closer, caught the rank scent of blood, and galloped away. ned began to drag himself through the mud, gritting his teeth at the agony in his leg. it seemed to take years. faces watched from candlelit windows, and people began to emerge from alleys and doors, but no one moved to help. little finger and the city watch found him there in the street, cradling jory cassel's body in his arms. somewhere the gold cloaks found a litter, but the trip back to the castle was a blur of agony, and ned lost consciousness more than once. he remembered seeing the red keep looming ahead of him in the first grey light of dawn. the rain had darkened the pale pink stone of the massive walls to the color of blood. then grand maester pycelle was looming over him, holding a cup, whispering, drink, my lord. here. the milk of the poppy, for your pain. he remembered swallowing, and pycelle was telling someone to heat the wine to boiling and fetch him clean silk, and that was the last he knew. he dreamt an old dream, of three knights in white cloaks, and a tower long fallen, and lyanna in her bed of blood. in the dream his friends rode with him, as they had in life. proud martyn cassel, jory's father; faithful theo wull; ethan glover, who had been brandon's squire; ser mark ryswell, soft of speech and gentle of heart; the crannogman, howland reed; lord dustin on his great red stallion. ned had known their faces as well as he knew his own once, but the years leech at a man's memories, even those he has vowed never to forget. in the dream they were only shadows, grey wraiths on horses made of mist. they were seven, facing three. in the dream as it had been in life. yet these were no ordinary three. they waited before the round tower, the red mountains of dome at their backs, their white cloaks blowing in the wind. and these were no shadows; their faces burned clear, even now. ser arthur dayne, the sword of the morning, had a sad smile on his lips. the hilt of the greatsword dawn poked up over his right shoulder. ser oswell whent was on one knee, sharpening his blade with a whetstone. across his white-enameled helm, the black bat of his house spread its wings. between them stood fierce old ser gerold hightower, the white bull, lord commander of the kingsguard. i looked for you on the trident, ned said to them. we were not there, ser gerold answered. woe to the usurper if we had been, said ser oswell. when king's landing fell, ser jaime slew your king with a golden sword, and i wondered where you were. far away, ser gerold said, or aerys would yet sit the iron throne, and our false brother would burn in seven hells. i came down on storm's end to lift the siege, ned told them... and the lords tyrell and redwyne dipped their banners, and all their knights bent the knee to pledge us fealty. i was certain you would be among them. our knees do not bend easily, said ser arthur dayne. ser willem darry is fled to dragonstone, with your queen and prince viserys. i thought you might have sailed with him. ser willem is a good man and true, said ser oswell. but not of the kingsguard, ser gerold pointed out. the kingsguard does not flee. then or now, said ser arthur. he donned his helm. we swore a vow, explained old ser gerold. ned's wraiths moved up beside him, with shadow swords in hand. they were seven against three. and now it begins, said ser arthur dayne, the sword of the morning. he unsheathed dawn and held it with both hands. the blade was pale as milkglass, alive with light. no, ned said with sadness in his voice. now it ends. as they came together in a rush of steel and shadow, he could hear lyanna screaming. eddard! she called. a storm of rose petals blew across a blood-streaked sky, as blue as the eyes of death. lord eddard, lyanna called again. i promise, he whispered. lya, i promise lord eddard, a man echoed from the dark. groaning, eddard stark opened his eyes. moonlight streamed through the tall windows of the tower of the hand. lord eddard? a shadow stood over the bed. how... how long? the sheets were tangled, his leg splinted and plastered. a dull throb of pain shot up his side. six days and seven nights. the voice was vayon poole's. the steward held a cup to ned's lips. drink, my lord. what...? only water. maester pycelle said you would be thirsty. ned drank. his lips were parched and cracked. the water tasted sweet as honey. the king left orders, vayon poole told him when the cup was empty. he would speak with you, my lord. on the morrow, ned said. when i am stronger. he could not face robert now. the dream had left him weak as a kitten. my lord, poole said, he commanded us to send you to him the moment you opened your eyes. the steward busied himself lighting a bedside candle. ned cursed softly. robert was never known for his patience. tell him i'm too weak to come to him. if he wishes to speak with me, i should be pleased to receive him here. i hope you wake him from a sound sleep. and summon... he was about to say jory when he remembered. summon the captain of my guard. alyn stepped into the bedchamber a few moments after the steward had taken his leave. my lord. poole tells me it has been six days, ned said. i must know how things stand. the kingslayer is fled the city, alyn told him. the talk is he's ridden back to casterly rock to join his father. the story of how lady catelyn took the imp is on every lip. i have put on extra guards, if it please you. it does, ned assured him. my daughters? they have been with you every day, my lord. sansa prays quietly, but arya... he hesitated. she has not said a word since they brought you back. she is a fierce little thing, my lord. i have never seen such anger in a girl. whatever happens, ned said, i want my daughters kept safe. i fear this is only the beginning. no harm will come to them, lord eddard, alyn said. i stake my life on that. jory and the others? i gave them over to the silent sisters, to be sent north to winterfell. jory would want to lie beside his grandfather. it would have to be his grandfather, for jory's father was buried far to the south. martyn cassel had perished with the rest. ned had pulled the tower down afterward, and used its bloody stones to build eight cairns upon the ridge. it was said that rhaegar had named that place the tower of joy, but for ned it was a bitter memory. they had been seven against three, yet only two had lived to ride away; eddard stark himself and the little crannogman, howland reed. he did not think it omened well that he should dream that dream again after so many years. you've done well, alyn, ned was saying when vayon poole returned. the steward bowed low. his grace is without, my lord, and the queen with him. ned pushed himself up higher, wincing as his leg trembled with pain. he had not expected cersei to come. it did not bode well that she had. send them in, and leave us. what we have to say should not go beyond these walls. poole withdrew quietly. robert had taken time to dress. he wore a black velvet doublet with the crowned stag of baratheon worked upon the breast in golden thread, and a golden mantle with a cloak of black and gold squares. a flagon of wine was in his hand, his face already flushed from drink. cersei lannister entered behind him, a jeweled tiara in her hair. your grace, ned said. your pardons. i cannot rise. no matter, the king said gruffly. some wine? from the arbor. a good vintage. a small cup, ned said. my head is still heavy from the milk of the poppy. a man in your place should count himself fortunate that his head is still on his shoulders, the queen declared. quiet, woman, robert snapped. he brought ned a cup of wine. does the leg still pain you? some, ned said. his head was swimming, but it would not do to admit to weakness in front of the queen. pycelle swears it will heal clean. robert frowned. i take it you know what catelyn has done? i do. ned took a small swallow of wine. my lady wife is blameless, your grace. all she did she did at my command. i am not pleased, ned, robert grumbled. by what right do you dare lay hands on my blood? cersei demanded. who do you think you are? the hand of the king, ned told her with icy courtesy. charged by your own lord husband to keep the king's peace and enforce the king's justice. you were the hand, cersei began, but now- silence! the king roared. you asked him a question and he answered it. cersei subsided, cold with anger, and robert turned back to ned. keep the king's peace, you say. is this how you keep my peace, ned? seven men are dead... eight, the queen corrected. tregar died this morning, of the blow lord stark gave him. abductions on the kingsroad and drunken slaughter in my streets, the king said. i will not have it, ned. catelyn had good reason for taking the imp- i said, i will not have it! to hell with her reasons. you will command her to release the dwarf at once, and you will make your peace with jaime. three of my men were butchered before my eyes, because jaime lannister wished to chasten me. am i to forget that? my brother was not the cause of this quarrel, cersei told the king. lord stark was returning drunk from a brothel. his men attacked jaime and his guards, even as his wife attacked tyrion on the kingsroad. you know me better than that, robert, ned said. ask lord baelish if you doubt me. he was there. i've talked to little finger, robert said. he claims he rode off to bring the gold cloaks before the fighting began, but he admits you were returning from some whorehouse. some whorehouse? damn your eyes, robert, i went there to have a look at your daughter! her mother has named her barra. she looks like that first girl you fathered, when we were boys together in the vale. he watched the queen as he spoke; her face was a mask, still and pale, betraying nothing. robert flushed. barra, he grumbled. is that supposed to please me? damn the girl. i thought she had more sense. she cannot be more than fifteen, and a whore, and you thought she had sense? ned said, incredulous. his leg was beginning to pain him sorely. it was hard to keep his temper. the fool child is in love with you, robert. the king glanced at cersei. this is no fit subject for the queen's ears. her grace will have no liking for anything i have to say, ned replied. i am told the kingslayer has fled the city. give me leave to bring him back to justice. the king swirled the wine in his cup, brooding. he took a swallow. no, he said. i want no more of this. jaime slew three of your men, and you five of his. now it ends. is that your notion of justice? ned flared. if so, i am pleased that i am no longer your hand. the queen looked to her husband. if any man had dared speak to a targaryen as he has spoken to you- do you take me for aerys? robert interrupted. i took you for a king. jaime and tyrion are your own brothers, by all the laws of marriage and the bonds we share. the starks have driven off the one and seized the other. this man dishonors you with every breath he takes, and yet you stand there meekly, asking if his leg pains him and would he like some wine. robert's face was dark with anger. how many times must i tell you to hold your tongue, woman? cersei's face was a study in contempt. what a jape the gods have made of us two, she said. by all rights, you ought to be in skirts and me in mail. purple with rage, the king lashed out, a vicious backhand blow to the side of the head. she stumbled against the table and fell hard, yet cersei lannister did not cry out. her slender fingers brushed her cheek, where the pale smooth skin was already reddening. on the morrow the bruise would cover half her face. i shall wear this as a badge of honor, she announced. wear it in silence, or i'll honor you again, robert vowed. he shouted for a guard. ser meryn trant stepped into the room, tall and somber in his white armor. the queen is tired. see her to her bedchamber. the knight helped cersei to her feet and led her out without a word. robert reached for the flagon and refilled his cup. you see what she does to me, ned. the king seated himself, cradling his wine cup. my loving wife. the mother of my children. the rage was gone from him now; in his eyes ned saw something sad and scared. i should not have hit her. that was not... that was not kingly. he stared down at his hands, as if he did not quite know what they were. i was always strong... no one could stand before me, no one. how do you fight someone if you can't hit them? confused, the king shook his head. rhaegar... rhaegar won, damn him. i killed him, ned, i drove the spike right through that black armor into his black heart, and he died at my feet. they made up songs about it. yet somehow he still won. he has lyanna now, and i have her. the king drained his cup. your grace, ned stark said, we must talk... robert pressed his fingertips against his temples. i am sick unto death of talk. on the morrow i'm going to the kingswood to hunt. whatever you have to say can wait until i return. if the gods are good, i shall not be here on your return. you commanded me to return to winterfell, remember? robert stood up, grasping one of the bedposts to steady himself. the gods are seldom good, ned. here, this is yours. he pulled the heavy silver hand clasp from a pocket in the lining of his cloak and tossed it on the bed. like it or not, you are my hand, damn you. i forbid you to leave. ned picked up the silver clasp. he was being given no choice, it seemed. his leg throbbed, and he felt as helpless as a child. the targaryen girl- the king groaned. seven hells, don't start with her again. that's done, i'll hear no more of it. why would you want me as your hand, if you refuse to listen to my counsel? why? robert laughed. why not? someone has to rule this damnable kingdom. put on the badge, ned. it suits you. and if you ever throw it in my face again, i swear to you, i'll pin the damned thing on jaime lannister. through the high narrow windows of the red keep's cavernous throne room, the light of sunset spilled across the floor, laying dark red stripes upon the walls where the heads of dragons had once hung. now the stone was covered with hunting tapestries, vivid with greens and browns and blues, and yet still it seemed to ned stark that the only color in the hall was the red ofblood. he sat high upon the immense ancient seat of aegon the conqueror, an ironwork monstrosity of spikes and jagged edges and grotesquely twisted metal. it was, as robert had warned him, a hellishly uncomfortable chair, and never more so than now, with his shattered leg throbbing more sharply every minute. the metal beneath him had grown harder by the hour, and the fanged steel behind made it impossible to lean back. a king should never sit easy, aegon the conqueror had said, when he commanded his armorers to forge a great seat from the swords laid down by his enemies. damn aegon for his arrogance, ned thought sullenly, and damn robert and his hunting as well. you are quite certain these were more than brigands? varys asked softly from the council table beneath the throne. grand maester pycelle stirred uneasily beside him, while littlefinger toyed with a pen. they were the only councillors in attendance. a white hart had been sighted in the kingswood, and lord renly and ser barristan had joined the king to hunt it, along with prince joffrey, sandor clegane, balon swann, and half the court. so ned must needs sit the iron throne in his absence. at least he could sit. save the council, the rest must stand respectfully, or kneel. the petitioners clustered near the tall doors, the knights and high lords and ladies beneath the tapestries, the smallfolk in the gallery, the mailed guards in their cloaks, gold or grey: all stood. the villagers were kneeling: men, women, and children, alike tattered and bloody, their faces drawn by fear. the three knights who had brought them here to bear witness stood behind them. brigands, lord varys? ser raymun darry's voice dripped scorn. oh, they were brigands, beyond a doubt. lannister brigands. ned could feel the unease in the hall, as high lords and servants alike strained to listen. he could not pretend to surprise. the west had been a tinderbox since catelyn had seized tyrion lannister. both riverrun and casterly rock had called their banners, and armies were massing in the pass below the golden tooth. it had only been a matter of time until the blood began to flow. the sole question that remained was how best to stanch the wound. sad-eyed ser karyl vance, who would have been handsome but for the winestain birthmark that discolored his face, gestured at the kneeling villagers. this is all the remains of the holdfast of sherrer, lord eddard. the rest are dead, along with the people of wendish town and the mummer's ford. rise, ned commanded the villagers. he never trusted what a man told him from his knees. all of you, up. in ones and twos, the holdfast of sherrer struggled to its feet. one ancient needed to be helped, and a young girl in a bloody dress stayed on her knees, staring blankly at ser arys oakheart, who stood by the foot of the throne in the white armor of the kingsguard, ready to protect and defend the king... or, ned supposed, the king's hand. joss, ser raymun darry said to a plump balding man in a brewer's apron. tell the hand what happened at sherrer. joss nodded. if it please his grace- his grace is hunting across the blackwater, ned said, wondering how a man could live his whole life a few days ride from the red keep and still have no notion what his king looked like. ned was clad in a white linen doublet with the direwolf of stark on the breast; his black wool cloak was fastened at the collar by his silver hand of office. black and white and grey, all the shades of truth. i am lord eddard stark, the king's hand. tell me who you are and what you know of these raiders. i keep... i kept... i kept an alehouse, m'lord, in sherrer, by the stone bridge. the finest ale south of the neck, everyone said so, begging your pardons, m'lord. it's gone now like all the rest, m'lord. they come and drank their fill and spilled the rest before they fired my roof, and they would of spilled my blood too, if they'd caught me. m'lord. they burnt us out, a farmer beside him said. come riding in the dark, up from the south, and fired the fields and the houses alike, killing them as tried to stop them. they weren't no raiders, though, m'lord. they had no mind to steal our stock, not these, they butchered my milk cow where she stood and left her for the flies and the crows. they rode down my'prentice boy, said a squat man with a smith's muscles and a bandage around his head. he had put on his finest clothes to come to court, but his breeches were patched, his cloak travel-stained and dusty. chased him back and forth across the fields on their horses, poking at him with their lances like it was a game, them laughing and the boy stumbling and screaming till the big one pierced him clean through. the girl on her knees craned her head up at ned, high above her on the throne. they killed my mother too, your grace. and they... they... her voice trailed off, as if she had forgotten what she was about to say. she began to sob. ser raymun darry took up the tale. at wendish town, the people sought shelter in their holdfast, but the walls were timbered. the raiders piled straw against the wood and burnt them all alive. when the wendish folk opened their gates to flee the fire, they shot them down with arrows as they came running out, even women with suckling babes. oh, dreadful, murmured varys. how cruel can men be? they would of done the same for us, but the sherrer holdfast's made of stone, joss said. some wanted to smoke us out, but the big one said there was riper fruit upriver, and they made for the mummer's ford. ned could feel cold steel against his fingers as he leaned forward. between each finger was a blade, the points of twisted swords fanning out like talons from arms of the throne. even after three centuries, some were still sharp enough to cut. the iron throne was full of traps for the unwary. the songs said it had taken a thousand blades to make it, heated white-hot in the furnace breath of balerion the black dread. the hammering had taken fifty- nine days. the end of it was this hunched black beast made of razor edges and barbs and ribbons of sharp metal; a chair that could kill a man, and had, if the stories could be believed. what eddard stark was doing sitting there he would never comprehend, yet there he sat, and these people looked to him for justice. what proof do you have that these were lannisters? he asked, trying to keep his fury under control. did they wear crimson cloaks or fly a lion banner? even lannisters are not so blind stupid as that, ser marq piper snapped. he was a swaggering bantam rooster of a youth, too young and too hot-blooded for ned's taste, though a fast friend of catelyn's brother, edmure tully. every man among them was mounted and mailed, my lord, ser karyl answered calmly. they were armed with steel-tipped lances and longswords, with battle-axes for the butchering. he gestured toward one of the ragged survivors. you. yes, you, no one's going to hurt you. tell the hand what you told me. the old man bobbed his head. concerning their horses, he said, it were warhorses they rode. many a year i worked in old ser willum's stables, so i knows the difference. not a one of these ever pulled a plow, gods bear witness if i'm wrong. well-mounted brigands, observed littlefinger. perhaps they stole the horses from the last place they raided. how many men were there in this raiding party? ned asked. a hundred, at the least, joss answered, in the same instant as the bandaged smith said, fifty, and the grandmother behind him, hunnerds and hunnerds, m'lord, an army they was. you are more right than you know, goodwoman, lord eddard told her. you say they flew no banners. what of the armor they wore? did any of you note ornaments or decorations, devices on shield or helm? the brewer, joss, shook his head. it grieves me, m'lord, but no, the armor they showed us was plain, only... the one who led them, he was armored like the rest, but there was no mistaking him all the same. it was the size of him, m'lord. those as say the giants are all dead never saw this one, i swear. big as an ox he was, and a voice like stone breaking. the mountain! ser marq said loudly. can any man doubt it? this was gregor clegane's work. ned heard muttering from beneath the windows and the far end of the hall. even in the galley, nervous whispers were exchanged. high lords and smallfolk alike knew what it could mean if ser marq was proved right. ser gregor clegane stood bannerman to lord tywin lannister. he studied the frightened faces of the villagers. small wonder they had been so fearful; they had thought they were being dragged here to name lord tywin a red-handed butcher before a king who was his son by marriage. he wondered if the knights had given them a choice. grand maester pycelle rose ponderously from the council table, his chain of office clinking. ser marq, with respect, you cannot know that this outlaw was ser gregor. there are many large men in the realm. as large as the mountain that rides? ser karyl said. i have never met one. nor has any man here, ser raymun added hotly. even his brother is a pup beside him. my lords, open your eyes. do you need to see his seal on the corpses? it was gregor. why should ser gregor turn brigand? pycelle asked. by the grace of his liege lord, he holds a stout keep and lands of his own. the man is an anointed knight. a false knight! ser marq said. lord tywin's mad dog. my lord hand, pycelle declared in a stiff voice, i urge you to remind this good knight that lord tywin lannister is the father of our own gracious queen. thank you, grand maester pycelle, ned said. i fear we might have forgotten that if you had not pointed it out. from his vantage point atop the throne, he could see men slipping out the door at the far end of the hall. hares going to ground, he supposed... or rats off to nibble the queen's cheese. he caught a glimpse of septa mordane in the gallery, with his daughter sansa beside her. ned felt a flash of anger; this was no place for a girl. but the septa could not have known that today's court would be anything but the usual tedious business of hearing petitions, settling disputes between rival holdfasts, and adjudicating the placement of boundary stones. at the council table below, petyr baelish lost interest in his quill and leaned forward. ser marq, ser karyl, ser raymun-perhaps i might ask you a question? these holdfasts were under your protection. where were you when all this slaughtering and burning was going on? ser karyl vance answered. i was attending my lord father in the pass below the golden tooth, as was ser marq. when the word of these outrages reached ser edmure tully, he sent word that we should take a small force of men to find what survivors we could and bring them to the king. ser raymun darry spoke up. ser edmure had summoned me to riverrun with all my strength. i was camped across the river from his walls, awaiting his commands, when the word reached me. by the time i could return to my own lands, clegane and his vermin were back across the red fork, riding for lannister's hills. little finger stroked the point of his beard thoughtfully. and if they come again, ser? if they come again, we'll use their blood to water the fields they burnt, ser marq piper declared hotly. ser edmure has sent men to every village and holdfast within a day's ride of the border, ser karyl explained. the next raider will not have such an easy time of it. and that may be precisely what lord tywin wants, ned thought to himself, to bleed off strength from riverrun, goad the boy into scattering his swords. his wife's brother was young, and more gallant than wise. he would try to hold every inch of his soil, to defend every man, woman, and child who named him lord, and tywin lannister was shrewd enough to know that. if your fields and holdfasts are safe from harm, lord petyr was saying, what then do you ask of the throne? the lords of the trident keep the king's peace, ser raymun darry said. the lannisters have broken it. we ask leave to answer them, steel for steel. we ask justice for the smallfolk of sherrer and wendish town and the mummer's ford. edmure agrees, we must pay gregor clegane back his bloody coin, ser marq declared, but old lord hoster commanded us to come here and beg the king's leave before we strike. thank the gods for old lord hoster, then. tywin lannister was as much fox as lion. if indeed he'd sent ser gregor to burn and pillage and ned did not doubt that he had-he'd taken care to see that he rode under cover of night, without banners, in the guise of a common brigand. should riverrun strike back, cersei and her father would insist that it had been the tullys who broke the king's peace, not the lannisters. the gods only knew what robert would believe. grand maester pycelle was on his feet again. my lord hand, if these good folk believe that ser gregor has forsaken his holy vows for plunder and rape, let them go to his liege lord and make their complaint. these crimes are no concern of the throne. let them seek lord tywin's justice. it is all the king's justice, ned told him. north, south, east, or west, all we do we do in robert's name. the king's justice, grand maester pycelle said. so it is, and so we should defer this matter until the king- the king is hunting across the river and may not return for days, lord eddard said. robert bid me to sit here in his place, to listen with his ears, and to speak with his voice. i mean to do just that... though i agree that he must be told. he saw a familiar face beneath the tapestries. ser robar. ser robar royce stepped forward and bowed. my lord. your father is hunting with the king, ned said. will you bring them word of what was said and done here today? at once, my lord. do we have your leave to take our vengeance against ser gregor, then? marq piper asked the throne. vengeance? ned said. i thought we were speaking of justice. burning clegane's fields and slaughtering his people will not restore the king's peace, only your injured pride. he glanced away before the young knight could voice his outraged protest, and addressed the villagers. people of sherrer, i cannot give you back your homes or your crops, nor can i restore your dead to life. but perhaps i can give you some small measure of justice, in the name of our king, robert. every eye in the hall was fixed on him, waiting. slowly ned struggled to his feet, pushing himself up from the throne with the strength of his arms, his shattered leg screaming inside its cast. he did his best to ignore the pain; it was no moment to let them see his weakness. the first men believed that the judge who called for death should wield the sword, and in the north we hold to that still. i mislike sending another to do my killing... yet it seems i have no choice. he gestured at his broken leg. lord eddard! the shout came from the west side of the hall as a handsome stripling of a boy strode forth boldly. out of his armor, ser loras tyre 11 looked even younger than his sixteen years. he wore pale blue silk, his belt a linked chain of golden roses, the sigil of his house. i beg you the honor of acting in your place. give this task to me, my lord, and i swear i shall not fail you.  little finger chuckled. ser loras, if we send you off alone, ser gregor will send us back your head with a plum stuffed in that pretty mouth of yours. the mountain is not the sort to bend his neck to any man's justice. i do not fear gregor clegane, ser loras said haughtily. ned eased himself slowly back onto the hard iron seat of aegon's misshapen throne. his eyes searched the faces along the wall. lord beric, he called out. thoros of myr. ser gladden. lord lothar. the men named stepped forward one by one. each of you is to assemble twenty men, to bring my word to gregor's keep. twenty of my own guards shall go with you. lord beric dondarrion, you shall have the command, as befits your rank. the young lord with the red-gold hair bowed. as you command, lord eddard. ned raised his voice, so it carried to the far end of the throne room. in the name of robert of the house baratheon, the first of his name, king of the andals and the rhoynar and the first men, lord of the seven kingdoms and protector of the realm, by the word of eddard of the house stark, his hand, i charge you to ride to the westlands with all haste, to cross the red fork of the trident under the king's flag, and there bring the king's justice to the false knight gregor clegane, and to all those who shared in his crimes. i denounce him, and attaint him, and strip him of all rank and titles, of all lands and incomes and holdings, and do sentence him to death. may the gods take pity on his soul. when the echo of his words had died away, the knight of flowers seemed perplexed. lord eddard, what of me? ned looked down on him. from on high, loras tyrell seemed almost as young as robb. no one doubts your valor, ser loras, but we are about justice here, and what you seek is vengeance. he looked back to lord beric. ride at first light. these things are best done quickly. he held up a hand. the throne will hear no more petitions today. alyn and porther climbed the steep iron steps to help him back down. as they made their descent, he could feel loras tyrell' s sullen stare, but the boy had stalked away before ned reached the floor of the throne room. at the base of the iron throne, varys was gathering papers from the council table. little finger and grand maester pycelle had already taken their leave. you are a bolder man than i, my lord, the eunuch said softly. how so, lord varys? ned asked brusquely. his leg was throbbing, and he was in no mood for word games. had it been me up there, i should have sent ser loras. he so wanted to go... and a man who has the lannisters for his enemies would do well to make the tyrells his friends. ser loras is young, said ned. i daresay he will outgrow the disappointment. and ser ilyn? the eunuch stroked a plump, powdered cheek. he is the king's justice, after all. sending other men to do his office... some might construe that as a grave insult. no slight was intended. in truth, ned did not trust the mute knight, though perhaps that was only because he misliked executioners. i remind you, the paynes are bannermen to house lannister. i thought it best to choose men who owed lord tywin no fealty. very prudent, no doubt, varys said. still, i chanced to see ser ilyn in the back of the hall, staring at us with those pale eyes of his, and i must say, he did not look pleased, though to be sure it is hard to tell with our silent knight. i hope he outgrows his disappointment as well. he does so love his work... pain is a gift from the gods, lord eddard, grand maester pycelle told him. it means the bone is knitting, the flesh healing itself. be thankful. i will be thankful when my leg stops throbbing. pycelle set a stoppered flask on the table by the bed. the milk of the poppy, for when the pain grows too onerous. i sleep too much already. sleep is the great healer. i had hoped that was you. pycelle smiled wanly. it is good to see you in such a fierce humor, my lord. he leaned close and lowered his voice. there was a raven this morning, a letter for the queen from her lord father. i thought you had best know. dark wings, dark words, ned said grimly. what of it? lord tywin is greatly wroth about the men you sent after ser gregor clegane, the maester confided. i feared he would be. you will recall, i said as much in council. let him be wroth, ned said. every time his leg throbbed, he remembered jaime lannister's smile, and jory dead in his arms. let him write all the letters to the queen he likes. lord beric rides beneath the king's own banner. if lord tywin attempts to interfere with the king's justice, he will have robert to answer to. the only thing his grace enjoys more than hunting is making war on lords who defy him. pycelle pulled back, his maester's chain jangling. as you say. i shall visit again on the morrow. the old man hurriedly gathered up his things and took his leave. ned had little doubt that he was bound straight for the royal apartments, to whisper at the queen. i thought you had best know, indeed... as if cersei had not instructed him to pass along her father's threats. he hoped his response rattled those perfect teeth of hers. ned was not near as confident of robert as he pretended, but there was no reason cersei need know that. when pycelle was gone, ned called for a cup of honeyed wine. that clouded the mind as well, yet not as badly. he needed to be able to think. a thousand times, he asked himself what jon arryn might have done, had he lived long enough to act on what he'd learned. or perhaps he had acted, and died for it. it was queer how sometimes a child's innocent eyes can see things that grown men are blind to. someday, when sansa was grown, he would have to tell her how she had made it all come clear for him. he's not the least bit like that old drunken king, she had declared, angry and unknowing, and the simple truth of it had twisted inside him, cold as death. this was the sword that killed jon anyn, ned thought then, and it will kill robert as well, a slower death but full as certain. shattered legs may heal in time, but some betrayals fester and poison the soul. littlefinger came calling an hour after the grand maester had left, clad in a plum-colored doublet with a mockingbird embroidered on the breast in black thread, and a striped cloak of black and white. i cannot visit long, my lord, he announced. lady tanda expects me to lunch with her. no doubt she will roast me a fatted calf. if it's near as fatted as her daughter, i'm like to rupture and die. and how is your leg? inflamed and painful, with an itch that is driving me mad. littlefinger lifted an eyebrow. in future, try not to let any horses fall on it. i would urge you to heal quickly. the realm grows restive. varys has heard ominous whispers from the west. freeriders and sellswords have been flocking to casterly rock, and not for the thin pleasure of lord tywin's conversation. is there word of the king? ned demanded. just how long does robert intend to hunt? given his preferences, i believe he'd stay in the forest until you and the queen both die of old age, lord petyr replied with a faint smile. lacking that, i imagine he'll return as soon as he's killed something. they found the white hart, it seems... or rather, what remained of it. some wolves found it first, and left his grace scarcely more than a hoof and a horn. robert was in a fury, until he heard talk of some monstrous boar deeper in the forest. then nothing would do but he must have it. prince joffrey returned this morning, with the royces, ser balon swann, and some twenty others of the party. the rest are still with the king. the hound? ned asked, frowning. of all the lannister party, sandor clegane was the one who concerned him the most, now that ser jaime had fled the city to join his father. oh, returned with joffrey, and went straight to the queen. littlefinger smiled. i would have given a hundred silver stags to have been a roach in the rushes when he learned that lord beric was off to behead his brother. even a blind man could see the hound loathed his brother. ah, but gregor was his to loathe, not yours to kill. once dondarrion lops the summit off our mountain, the clegane lands and incomes will pass to sandor, but i wouldn't hold my water waiting for his thanks, not that one. and now you must forgive me. lady tanda awaits with her fatted calves. on the way to the door, lord petyr spied grand maester malleon's massive tome on the table and paused to idly flip open the cover. the lineages and histories of the great houses of the seven kingdoms, with descriptions of many high lords and noble ladies and their children,  he read. now there is tedious reading if ever i saw it. a sleeping potion, my lord? for a brief moment ned considered telling him all of it, but there was something in littlefinger's japes that irked him. the man was too clever by half, a mocking smile never far from his lips. jon arryn was studying this volume when he was taken sick, ned said in a careful tone, to see how he might respond. and he responded as he always did: with a quip. in that case, he said, death must have come as a blessed relief. lord petyr baelish bowed and took his leave. eddard stark allowed himself a curse. aside from his own retainers, there was scarcely a man in this city he trusted. littlefinger had concealed catelyn and helped ned in his inquiries, yet his haste to save his own skin when jaime and his swords had come out of the rain still rankled. varys was worse. for all his protestations of loyalty, the eunuch knew too much and did too little. grand maester pycelle seemed more cersei's creature with every passing day, and ser barristan was an old man, and rigid. he would tell ned to do his duty. time was perilously short. the king would return from his hunt soon, and honor would require ned to go to him with all he had learned. vayon poole had arranged for sansa and arya to sail on the wind witch out of braavos, three days hence. they would be back at winterfell before the harvest. ned could no longer use his concern for their safety to excuse his delay. yet last night he had dreamt of rhaegar's children. lord tywin had laid the bodies beneath the iron throne, wrapped in the crimson cloaks of his house guard. that was clever of him; the blood did not show so badly against the red cloth. the little princess had been barefoot, still dressed in her bed gown, and the boy... the boy... ned could not let that happen again. the realm could not withstand a second mad king, another dance of blood and vengeance. he must find some way to save the children. robert could be merciful. ser barristan was scarcely the only man he had pardoned. grand maester pycelle, varys the spider, lord balon greyjoy; each had been counted an enemy to robert once, and each had been welcomed into friendship and allowed to retain honors and office for a pledge of fealty. so long as a man was brave and honest, robert would treat him with all the honor and respect due a valiant enemy. this was something else: poison in the dark, a knife thrust to the soul. this he could never forgive, no more than he had forgiven rhaegar. he will kill them all, ned realized. and yet, he knew he could not keep silent. he had a duty to robert, to the realm, to the shade of jon arryn... and to bran, who surely must have stumbled on some part of the truth. why else would they have tried to slay him? late that afternoon he summoned tomard, the portly guardsman with the ginger-colored whiskers his children called fat tom. with jory dead and alyn gone, fat tom had command of his household guard. the thought filled ned with vague disquiet. tomard was a solid man; affable, loyal, tireless, capable in a limited way, but he was near fifty, and even in his youth he had never been energetic. perhaps ned should not have been so quick to send off half his guard, and all his best swords among them. i shall require your help, ned said when tomard appeared, looking faintly apprehensive, as he always did when called before his lord. take me to the godswood. is that wise, lord eddard? with your leg and all? perhaps not. but necessary. tomard summoned varly. with one arm around each man's shoulders, ned managed to descend the steep tower steps and hobble across the bailey. i want the guard doubled, he told fat tom. no one enters or leaves the tower of the hand without my leave. tom blinked. mtord, with alyn and the others away, we are hardpressed already- it will only be a short while. lengthen the watches. as you say, m'lord, tom answered. might i ask why- best not, ned answered crisply. the godswood was empty, as it always was here in this citadel of the southron gods. ned's leg was screaming as they lowered him to the grass beside the heart tree. thank you. he drew a paper from his sleeve, sealed with the sigil of his house. kindly deliver this at once. tomard looked at the name ned had written on the paper and licked his lips anxiously. my lord... do as i bid you, tom, ned said. how long he waited in the quiet of the godswood, he could not say. it was peaceful here. the thick walls shut out the clamor of the castle, and he could hear birds singing, the murmur of crickets, leaves rustling in a gentle wind. the heart tree was an oak, brown and faceless, yet ned stark still felt the presence of his gods. his leg did not seem to hurt so much. she came to him at sunset, as the clouds reddened above the walls and towers. she came alone, as he had bid her. for once she was dressed simply, in leather boots and hunting greens. when she drew back the hood of her brown cloak, he saw the bruise where the king had struck her. the angry plum color had faded to yellow, and the swelling was down, but there was no mistaking it for anything but what it was. why here? cersei lannister asked as she stood over him. so the gods can see. she sat beside him on the grass. her every move was graceful. her curling blond hair moved in the wind, and her eyes were green as the leaves of summer. it had been a long time since ned stark had seen her beauty, but he saw it now. i know the truth jon arryn died for, he told her. do you? the queen watched his face, wary as a cat. is that why you called me here, lord stark? to pose me riddles? or is it your intent to seize me, as your wife seized my brother? if you truly believed that, you would never have come. ned touched her cheek gently. has he done this before? once or twice. she shied away from his hand. never on the face before. jaime would have killed him, even if it meant his own life. cersei looked at him defiantly. my brother is worth a hundred of your friend. your brother? ned said. or your lover? both. she did not flinch from the truth. since we were children together. and why not? the targaryens wed brother to sister for three hundred years, to keep the bloodlines pure. and jaime and i are more than brother and sister. we are one person in two bodies. we shared a womb together. he came into this world holding my foot, our old maester said. when he is in me, i feel... whole. the ghost of a smile flitted over her lips. my son bran... to her credit, cersei did not look away. he saw us. you love your children, do you not? robert had asked him the very same question, the morning of the melee. he gave her the same answer. with all my heart. no less do i love mine. ned thought, if it came to that, the life of some child i did not know, against robb and sansa and arya and bran and rickon, what would i do? even more so, what would catelyn do, if it were jon's life, against the children of her body? he did not know. he prayed he never would. all three are jaime's, he said. it was not a question. thank the gods. the seed is strong, jon arryn had cried on his deathbed, and so it was. all those bastards, all with hair as black as night. grand maester malleon recorded the last mating between stag and lion, some ninety years ago, when tya lannister wed go wen baratheon, third son of the reigning lord. their only issue, an unnamed boy described in malleon' s tome as a large and lusty lad born with a full head of black hair, died in infancy. thirty years before that a male lannister had taken a baratheon maid to wife. she had given him three daughters and a son, each black- haired. no matter how far back ned searched in the brittle yellowed pages, always he found the gold yielding before the coal. a dozen years, ned said. how is it that you have had no children by the king? she lifted her head, defiant. your robert got me with child once, she said, her voice thick with contempt. my brother found a woman to cleanse me. he never knew, if truth be told, i can scarcely bear for him to touch me, and i have not let him inside me for years. i know other ways to pleasure him, when he leaves his whores long enough to stagger up to my bedchamber. whatever we do, the king is usually so drunk that he's forgotten it all by the next morning. how could they have all been so blind? the truth was there in front of them all the time, written on the children's faces. ned felt sick. i remember robert as he was the day he took the throne, every inch a king, he said quietly. a thousand other women might have loved him with all their hearts. what did he do to make you hate him so? her eyes burned, green fire in the dusk, like the lioness that was her sigil. the night of our wedding feast, the first time we shared a bed, he called me by your sister's name. he was on top of me, in me, stinking of wine, and he whispered lyanna.  ned stark thought of pale blue roses, and for a moment he wanted to weep. i do not know which of you i pity most. the queen seemed amused by that. save your pity for yourself, lord stark. i want none of it. you know what i must do. must? she put her hand on his good leg, just above the knee. a true man does what he will, not what he must. her fingers brushed lightly against his thigh, the gentlest of promises. the realm needs a strong hand. jo ff will not come of age for years. no one wants war again, least of all me. her hand touched his face, his hair. if friends can turn to enemies, enemies can become friends. your wife is a thousand leagues away, and my brother has fled. be kind to me, ned. i swear to you, you shall never regret it. did you make the same offer to jon arryn? she slapped him. i shall wear that as a badge of honor, ned said dryly. honor, she spat. how dare you play the noble lord with me! what do you take me for? you've a bastard of your own, i've seen him. who was the mother, i wonder? some dornish peasant you raped while her holdfast burned? a whore? or was it the grieving sister, the lady ashara? she threw herself into the sea, i'm told. why was that? for the brother you slew, or the child you stole? tell me, my honorable lord eddard, how are you any different from robert, or me, or jaime? for a start, said ned, i do not kill children. you would do well to listen, my lady. i shall say this only once. when the king returns from his hunt, i intend to lay the truth before him. you must be gone by then. you and your children, all three, and not to casterly rock. if i were you, i should take ship for the free cities, or even farther, to the summer isles or the port of ibben. as far as the winds blow. exile, she said. a bitter cup to drink from. a sweeter cup than your father served rhaegar's children, ned said, and kinder than you deserve. your father and your brothers would do well to go with you. lord tywin's gold will buy you comfort and hire swords to keep you safe. you shall need them. i promise you, no matter where you flee, robert's wrath will follow you, to the back of beyond if need be. the queen stood. and what of my wrath, lord stark? she asked softly. her eyes searched his face. you should have taken the realm for yourself. it was there for the taking. jaime told me how you found him on the iron throne the day king's landing fell, and made him yield it up. that was your moment. all you needed to do was climb those steps, and sit. such a sad mistake. i have made more mistakes than you can possibly imagine, ned said, but that was not one of them. oh, but it was, my lord, cersei insisted. when you play the game of thrones, you win or you die. there is no middle ground. she turned up her hood to hide her swollen face and left him there in the dark beneath the oak, amidst the quiet of the godswood, under a blue-black sky. the stars were coming out. he was walking through the crypts beneath winterfell, as he had walked a thousand times before. the kings of winter watched him pass with eyes of ice, and the direwolves at their feet turned their great stone heads and snarled. last of all, he came to the tomb where his father slept, with brandon and lyanna beside him. promise me, ned, lyanna's statue whispered. she wore a garland of pale blue roses, and her eyes wept blood. eddard stark jerked upright, his heart racing, the blankets tangled around him. the room was black as pitch, and someone was hammering on the door. lord eddard, a voice called loudly. a moment. groggy and naked, he stumbled his way across the darkened chamber. when he opened the door, he found tomard with an upraised fist, and cayn with a taper in hand. between them stood the king's own steward. the man's face might have been carved of stone, so little did it show. my lord hand, he intoned. his grace the king commands your presence. at once. so robert had returned from his hunt. it was long past time. i shall need a few moments to dress. ned left the man waiting without. cayn helped him with his clothes; white linen tunic and grey cloak, trousers cut open down his plaster-sheathed leg, his badge of office, and last of all a belt of heavy silver links. he sheathed the valyrian dagger at his waist. the red keep was dark and still as cayn and tomard escorted him across the inner bailey. the moon hung low over the walls, ripening toward full. on the ramparts, a guardsman in a gold cloak walked his rounds. the royal apartments were in maegor's holdfast, a massive square fortress that nestled in the heart of the red keep behind walls twelve feet thick and a dry moat lined with iron spikes, a castle-within-acastle. ser boros blount guarded the far end of the bridge, white steel armor ghostly in the moonlight. within, ned passed two other knights of the kingsguard; ser preston greenfield stood at the bottom of the steps, and ser barristan selmy waited at the door of the king's bedchamber. three men in white cloaks, he thought, remembering, and a strange chill went through him. ser barristan' s face was as pale as his armor. ned had only to look at him to know that something was dreadfully wrong. the royal steward opened the door. lord eddard stark, the hand of the king, he announced. bring him here, robert's voice called, strangely thick. fires blazed in the twin hearths at either end of the bedchamber, filling the room with a sullen red glare. the heat within was suffocating. robert lay across the canopied bed. at the bedside hovered grand maester pycelle, while lord renly paced restlessly before the shuttered windows. servants moved back and forth, feeding logs to the fire and boiling wine. cersei lannister sat on the edge of the bed beside her husband. her hair was tousled, as if from sleep, but there was nothing sleepy in her eyes. they followed ned as tomard and cayn helped him cross the room. he seemed to move very slowly, as if he were still dreaming. the king still wore his boots. ned could see dried mud and blades of grass clinging to the leather where robert's feet stuck out beneath the blanket that covered him, a green doublet lay on the floor, slashed open and discarded, the cloth crusted with red-brown stains. the room smelled of smoke and blood and death. ned, the king whispered when he saw him. his face was pale as milk. come... closer. his men brought him close. ned steadied himself with a hand on the bedpost. he had only to look down at robert to know how bad it was. what... ? he began, his throat clenched. a boar. lord renly was still in his hunting greens, his cloak spattered with blood. a devil, the king husked. my own fault. too much wine, damn me to hell. missed my thrust. and where were the rest of you? ned demanded of lord renly. where was ser barristan and the kingsguard? renly's mouth twitched. my brother commanded us to stand aside and let him take the boar alone. eddard stark lifted the blanket. they had done what they could to close him up, but it was nowhere near enough. the boar must have been a fearsome thing. it had ripped the king from groin to nipple with its tusks. the wine- soaked bandages that grand maester pycelle had applied were already black with blood, and the smell off the wound was hideous. ned's stomach turned. he let the blanket fall. stinks, robert said. the stink of death, don't think i can't smell it. bastard did me good, eh? but i... i paid him back in kind, ned. the king's smile was as terrible as his wound, his teeth red. drove a knife right through his eye. ask them if i didn't. ask them. truly, lord renly murmured. we brought the carcass back with us, at my brother's command. for the feast, robert whispered. now leave us. the lot of you. i need to speak with ned. robert, my sweet lord cersei began. i said leave, robert insisted with a hint of his old fierceness. what part of that don't you understand, woman? cersei gathered up her skirts and her dignity and led the way to the door. lord renly and the others followed. grand maester pycelle lingered, his hands shaking as he offered the king a cup of thick white liquid. the milk of the poppy, your grace, he said. drink. for your pain. robert knocked the cup away with the back of his hand. away with you. i'll sleep soon enough, old fool. get out. grand maester pycelle gave ned a stricken look as he shuffled from the room. damn you, robert, ned said when they were alone. his leg was throbbing so badly he was almost blind with pain. or perhaps it was grief that fogged his eyes. he lowered himself to the bed, beside his friend. why do you always have to be so headstrong? ah, fuck you, ned, the king said hoarsely. i killed the bastard, didn't i? a lock of matted black hair fell across his eyes as he glared up at ned. ought to do the same for you. can't leave a man to hunt in peace. ser robar found me. gregor's head. ugly thought. never told the hound. let cersei surprise him. his laugh turned into a grunt as a spasm of pain hit him. gods have mercy, he muttered, swallowing his agony. the girl. daenerys. only a child, you were right... that's why, the girl... the gods sent the boar... sent to punish me... the king coughed, bringing up blood. wrong, it was wrong, i... only a girl... varys, littlefinger, even my brother... worthless... no one to tell me no but you, ned... only you... he lifted his hand, the gesture pained and feeble. paper and ink. there, on the table. write what i tell you. ned smoothed the paper out across his knee and took up the quill. at your command, your grace. this is the will and word of robert of house baratheon, the first of his name, king of the andals and all the rest-put in the damn titles, you know how it goes. i do hereby command eddard of house stark, lord of winterfell and hand of the king, to serve as lord regent and protector of the realm upon my... upon my death... to rule in my... in my stead, until my son joffrey does come of age... robert joffrey is not your son, he wanted to say, but the words would not come. the agony was written too plainly across robert's face; he could not hurt him more. so ned bent his head and wrote, but where the king had said my son joffrey, he scrawled my heir instead. the deceit made him feel soiled. the lies we tellfor love, he thought. may the gods forgive me. what else would you have me say? say... whatever you need to. protect and defend, gods old and new, you have the words. write. i'll sign it. you give it to the council when i'm dead. robert, ned said in a voice thick with grief, you must not do this. don't die on me. the realm needs you. robert took his hand, fingers squeezing hard. you are... such a bad liar, ned stark, he said through his pain. the realm... the realm knows... what a wretched king i've been. bad as aerys, the gods spare me. no, ned told his dying friend, not so bad as aerys, your grace. not near so bad as aerys. robert managed a weak red smile. at the least, they will say... this last thing... this i did right. you won't fail me. you'll rule now. you'll hate it, worse than i did... but you'll do well. are you done with the scribbling? yes, your grace. ned offered robert the paper. the king scrawled his signature blindly, leaving a smear of blood across the letter. the seal should be witnessed. serve the boar at my funeral feast, robert rasped. apple in its mouth, skin seared crisp. eat the bastard. don't care if you choke on him. promise me, ned. i promise. promise me, ned, lyanna's voice echoed. the girl, the king said. daenerys. let her live. if you can, if it... not too late... talk to them... varys, littlefinger... don't let them kill her. and help my son, ned. make him be... better than me. he winced. gods have mercy. they will, my friend, ned said. they will. the king closed his eyes and seemed to relax. killed by a pig, he muttered. ought to laugh, but it hurts too much. ned was not laughing. shall i call them back? robert gave a weak nod. as you will. gods, why is it so cold in here? the servants rushed back in and hurried to feed the fires. the queen had gone; that was some small relief, at least. if she had any sense, cersei would take her children and fly before the break of day, ned thought. she had lingered too long already. king robert did not seem to miss her. he bid his brother renly and grand maester pycelle to stand in witness as he pressed his seal into the hot yellow wax that ned had dripped upon his letter. now give me something for the pain and let me die. hurriedly grand maester pycelle mixed him another draught of the milk of the poppy. this time the king drank deeply. his black beard was beaded with thick white droplets when he threw the empty cup aside. will i dream? ned gave him his answer. you will, my lord. good, he said, smiling. i will give lyanna your love, ned. take care of my children for me. the words twisted in ned's belly like a knife. for a moment he was at a loss. he could not bring himself to lie. then he remembered the bastards: little barra at her mother's breast, mya in the vale, gendry at his forge, and all the others. i shall... guard your children as if they were my own, he said slowly. robert nodded and closed his eyes. ned watched his old friend sag softly into the pillows as the milk of the poppy washed the pain from his face. sleep took him. heavy chains jangled softly as grand maester pycelle came up to ned. i will do all in my power, my lord, but the wound has mortified. it took them two days to get him back. by the time i saw him, it was too late. i can lessen his grace's suffering, but only the gods can heal him now. how long? ned asked. by rights, he should be dead already. i have never seen a man cling to life so fiercely. my brother was always strong, lord renly said. not wise, perhaps, but strong. in the sweltering heat of the bedchamber, his brow was slick with sweat. he might have been robert's ghost as he stood there, young and dark and handsome. he slew the boar. his entrails were sliding from his belly, yet somehow he slew the boar. his voice was full of wonder. robert was never a man to leave the battleground so long as a foe remained standing, ned told him. outside the door, ser barristan selmy still guarded the tower stairs. maester pycelle has given robert the milk of the poppy, ned told him. see that no one disturbs his rest without leave from me. it shall be as you command, my lord. ser barristan seemed old beyond his years. i have failed my sacred trust. even the truest knight cannot protect a king against himself, ned said. robert loved to hunt boar. i have seen him take a thousand of them. he would stand his ground without flinching, his legs braced, the great spear in his hands, and as often as not he would curse the boar as it charged, and wait until the last possible second, until it was almost on him, before he killed it with a single sure and savage thrust. no one could know this one would be his death. you are kind to say so, lord eddard. the king himself said as much. he blamed the wine. the white-haired knight gave a weary nod. his grace was reeling in his saddle by the time we flushed the boar from his lair, yet he commanded us all to stand aside. i wonder, ser barristan, asked varys, so quietly, who gave the king this wine? ned had not heard the eunuch approach, but when he looked around, there he stood. he wore a black velvet robe that brushed the floor, and his face was freshly powdered. the wine was from the king's own skin, ser barristan said. only one skin? hunting is such thirsty work. i did not keep count. more than one, for a certainty. his squire would fetch him a fresh skin whenever he required it. such a dutiful boy, said varys, to make certain his grace did not lack for refreshment. ned had a bitter taste in his mouth. he recalled the two fair-haired boys robert had sent chasing after a breastplate stretcher. the king had told everyone the tale that night at the feast, laughing until he shook. which squire? the elder, said ser barristan. lancel. i know the lad well, said varys. a stalwart boy, ser kevan lannister's son, nephew to lord tywin and cousin to the queen. i hope the dear sweet lad does not blame himself. children are so vulnerable in the innocence of their youth, how well do i remember. certainly varys had once been young. ned doubted that he had ever been innocent. you mention children. robert had a change of heart concerning daenerys targaryen. whatever arrangements you made, i want unmade. at once. alas, said varys. at once may be too late. i fear those birds have flown. but i shall do what i can, my lord. with your leave. he bowed and vanished down the steps, his soft-soled slippers whispering against the stone as he made his descent. cayn and tomard were helping ned across the bridge when lord renly emerged from maegor's holdfast. lord eddard, he called after ned, a moment, if you would be so kind. ned stopped. as you wish. renly walked to his side. send your men away. they met in the center of the bridge, the dry moat beneath them. moonlight silvered the cruel edges of the spikes that lined its bed. ned gestured. tomard and cayn bowed their heads and backed away respectfully. lord renly glanced warily at ser boros on the far end of the span, at ser preston in the doorway behind them. that letter. he leaned close. was it the regency? has my brother named you protector? he did not wait for a reply. my lord, i have thirty men in my personal guard, and other friends beside, knights and lords. give me an hour, and i can put a hundred swords in your hand. and what should i do with a hundred swords, my lord? strike! now, while the castle sleeps. renly looked back at ser boros again and dropped his voice to an urgent whisper. we must get joffrey away from his mother and take him in hand. protector or no, the man who holds the king holds the kingdom. we should seize myrcella and tommen as well. once we have her children, cersei will not dare oppose us. the council will confirm you as lord protector and make joffrey your ward. ned regarded him coldly. robert is not dead yet. the gods may spare him. if not, i shall convene the council to hear his final words and consider the matter of the succession, but i will not dishonor his last hours on earth by shedding blood in his halls and dragging frightened children from their beds. lord renly took a step back, taut as a bowstring. every moment you delay gives cersei another moment to prepare. by the time robert dies, it may be too late... for both of us. then we should pray that robert does not die. small chance of that, said renly. sometimes the gods are merciful. the lannisters are not. lord renly turned away and went back across the moat, to the tower where his brother lay dying. by the time ned returned to his chambers, he felt weary and heartsick, yet there was no question of his going back to sleep, not now. when you play the game of thrones, you win or you die, cersei lannister had told him in the godswood. he found himself wondering if he had done the right thing by refusing lord renly' s offer. he had no taste for these intrigues, and there was no honor in threatening children, and yet... if cersei elected to fight rather than flee, he might well have need of renly' s hundred swords, and more besides. i want littlefinger, he told cayn. if he's not in his chambers, take as many men as you need and search every winesink and whorehouse in king's landing until you find him. bring him to me before break of day. cayn bowed and took his leave, and ned turned to tomard. the wind witch sails on the evening tide. have you chosen the escort? ten men, with porther in command. twenty, and you will command, ned said. porther was a brave man, but headstrong. he wanted someone more solid and sensible to keep watch over his daughters. as you wish, m'lord, tom said. can't say i'll be sad to see the back of this place. i miss the wife. you will pass near dragonstone when you turn north. i need you to deliver a letter for me. tom looked apprehensive. to dragonstone, m'lord? the island fortress of house targaryen had a sinister repute. tell captain qos to hoist my banner as soon as he comes in sight of the island. they may be wary of unexpected visitors. if he is reluctant, offer him whatever it takes. i will give you a letter to place into the hand of lord stannis baratheon. no one else. not his steward, nor the captain of his guard, nor his lady wife, but only lord stannis himself. as you command, m'lord. when tomard had left him, lord eddard stark sat staring at the flame of the candle that burned beside him on the table. for a moment his grief overwhelmed him. he wanted nothing so much as to seek out the godswood, to kneel before the heart tree and pray for the life of robert baratheon, who had been more than a brother to him. men would whisper afterward that eddard stark had betrayed his king's friendship and disinherited his sons; he could only hope that the gods would know better, and that robert would learn the truth of it in the land beyond the grave. ned took out the king's last letter. a roll of crisp white parchment sealed with golden wax, a few short words and a smear of blood. how small the difference between victory and defeat, between life and death. he drew out a fresh sheet of paper and dipped his quill in the inkpot. to his grace, stannis of the house baratheon, he wrote. by the time you receive this letter, your brother robert, our king these past fifteen years, will be dead. he was savaged by a boar whilst hunting in the kingswood... the letters seemed to writhe and twist on the paper as his hand trailed to a stop. lord tywin and ser jaime were not men to suffer disgrace meekly; they would fight rather than flee. no doubt lord stannis was wary, after the murder of jon arryn, but it was imperative that he sail for king's landing at once with all his power, before the lannisters could march. ned chose each word with care. when he was done, he signed the letter eddard stark, lord of winterfell, hand of the king, and protector of the realm, blotted the paper, folded it twice, and melted the sealing wax over the candle flame. his regency would be a short one, he reflected as the wax softened. the new king would choose his own hand. ned would be free to go home. the thought of winterfell brought a wan smile to his face. he wanted to hear bran's laughter once more, to go hawking with robb, to watch rickon at play. he wanted to drift off to a dreamless sleep in his own bed with his arms wrapped tight around his lady, catelyn. cayn returned as he was pressing the direwolf seal down into the soft white wax. desmond was with him, and between them littlefinger. ned thanked his guards and sent them away. lord petyr was clad in a blue velvet tunic with puffed sleeves, his silvery cape patterned with mockingbirds. i suppose congratulations are in order, he said as he seated himself. ned scowled. the king lies wounded and near to death. i know, littlefinger said. i also know that robert has named you protector of the realm. ned's eyes flicked to the king's letter on the table beside him, its seal unbroken. and how is it you know that, my lord? varys hinted as much, littlefinger said, and you have just confirmed it. ned's mouth twisted in anger. damn varys and his little birds. catelyn spoke truly, the man has some black art. i do not trust him. excellent. you're learning. littlefinger leaned forward. yet i'll wager you did not drag me here in the black of night to discuss the eunuch. no, ned admitted. i know the secret jon arryn was murdered to protect. robert will leave no trueborn son behind him. joffrey and tommen are jaime lannister's bastards, born of his incestuous union with the queen. littlefinger lifted an eyebrow. shocking, he said in a tone that suggested he was not shocked at all. the girl as well? no doubt. so when the king dies... the throne by rights passes to lord stannis, the elder of robert's two brothers. lord petyr stroked his pointed beard as he considered the matter. so it would seem. unless... unless, my lord? there is no seeming to this. stannis is the heir. nothing can change that. stannis cannot take the throne without your help. if you're wise, you'll make certain joffrey succeeds. ned gave him a stony stare. have you no shred of honor? oh, a shred, surely, littlefinger replied negligently. hear me out. stannis is no friend of yours, nor of mine. even his brothers can scarcely stomach him. the man is iron, hard and unyielding. he'll give us a new hand and a new council, for a certainty. no doubt he'll thank you for handing him the crown, but he won't love you for it. and his ascent will mean war. stannis cannot rest easy on the throne until cersei and her bastards are dead. do you think lord tywin will sit idly while his daughter's head is measured for a spike? casterly rock will rise, and not alone. robert found it in him to pardon men who served king aerys, so long as they did him fealty. stannis is less forgiving. he will not have forgotten the siege of storm's end, and the lords tyrell and redwyne dare not. every man who fought beneath the dragon banner or rose with balon greyjoy will have good cause to fear. seat stannis on the iron throne and i promise you, the realm will bleed. now look at the other side of the coin. joffrey is but twelve, and robert gave you the regency, my lord. you are the hand of the king and protector of the realm. the power is yours, lord stark. all you need do is reach out and take it. make your peace with the lannisters. release the imp. wed joffrey to your sansa. wed your younger girl to prince tommen, and your heir to myrcella. it will be four years before joffrey comes of age. by then he will look to you as a second father, and if not, well... four years is a good long while, my lord. long enough to dispose of lord stannis. then, should joffrey prove troublesome, we can reveal his little secret and put lord renly on the throne. we? ned repeated. littlefinger gave a shrug. you'll need someone to share your burdens. i assure you, my price would be modest. your price. ned's voice was ice. lord baelish, what you suggest is treason. only if we lose. you forget, ned told him. you forget jon arryn. you forget jory cassel. and you forget this. he drew the dagger and laid it on the table between them; a length of dragonbone and valyrian steel, as sharp as the difference between right and wrong, between true and false, between life and death. they sent a man to cut my son's throat, lord baelish. littlefinger sighed. i fear i did forget, my lord. pray forgive me. for a moment i did not remember that i was talking to a stark. his mouth quirked. so it will be stannis, and war? it is not a choice. stannis is the heir. far be it from me to dispute the lord protector. what would you have of me, then? not my wisdom, for a certainty. i shall do my best to forget your... wisdom, ned said with distaste. i called you here to ask for the help you promised catelyn. this is a perilous hour for all of us. robert has named me protector, true enough, but in the eyes of the world, joffrey is still his son and heir. the queen has a dozen knights and a hundred men-at-arms who will do whatever she commands... enough to overwhelm what remains of my own household guard. and for all i know, her brother jaime may be riding for king's landing even as we speak, with a lannister host at his back. and you without an army. little finger toyed with the dagger on the table, turning it slowly with a finger. there is small love lost between lord renly and the lannisters. bronze yohn royce, ser balon swann, ser loras, lady tanda, the redwyne twins... each of them has a retinue of knights and sworn swords here at court. renly has thirty men in his personal guard, the rest even fewer. it is not enough, even if i could be certain that all of them will choose to give me their allegiance. i must have the gold cloaks. the city watch is two thousand strong, sworn to defend the castle, the city, and the king's peace. ah, but when the queen proclaims one king and the hand another, whose peace do they protect? lord petyr flicked at the dagger with his finger, setting it spinning in place. round and round it went, wobbling as it turned. when at last it slowed to a stop, the blade pointed at littlefinger. why, there's your answer, he said, smiling. they follow the man who pays them. he leaned back and looked ned full in the face, his grey-green eyes bright with mockery. you wear your honor like a suit of armor, stark. you think it keeps you safe, but all it does is weigh you down and make it hard for you to move. look at you now. you know why you summoned me here. you know what you want to ask me to do. you know it has to be done... but it's not honorable, so the words stick in your throat. ned's neck was rigid with tension. for a moment he was so angry that he did not trust himself to speak. littlefinger laughed. i ought to make you say it, but that would be cruel... so have no fear, my good lord. for the sake of the love i bear for catelyn, i will go to janos slynt this very hour and make certain that the city watch is yours. six thousand gold pieces should do it. a third for the commander, a third for the officers, a third for the men. we might be able to buy them for half that much, but i prefer not to take chances. smiling, he plucked up the dagger and offered it to ned, hilt first. the grey light of dawn was streaming through his window when the thunder of hoofbeats awoke eddard stark from his brief, exhausted sleep. he lifted his head from the table to look down into the yard. below, men in mail and leather and crimson cloaks were making the morning ring to the sound of swords, and riding down mock warriors stuffed with straw. ned watched sandor clegane gallop across the hard-packed ground to drive an iron-tipped lance through a dummy's head. canvas ripped and straw exploded as lannister guardsmen joked and cursed. is this brave show for my benefit? he wondered. if so, cersei was a greater fool than he'd imagined. damn her, he thought, why is the woman not fled? i have given her chance after chance... the morning was overcast and grim. ned broke his fast with his daughters and septa mordane. sansa, still disconsolate, stared sullenly at her food and refused to eat, but arya wolfed down everything that was set in front of her. syrio says we have time for one last lesson before we take ship this evening, she said. can i, father? all my things are packed. a short lesson, and make certain you leave yourself time to bathe and change. i want you ready to leave by midday, is that understood? by midday, arya said. sansa looked up from her food. if she can have a dancing lesson, why won't you let me say farewell to prince joffrey? i would gladly go with her, lord eddard, septa mordane offered. there would be no question of her missing the ship. it would not be wise for you to go to joffrey right now, sansa. i'm sorry. sansa' s eyes filled with tears. but why? sansa, your lord father knows best, septa mordane said. you are not to question his decisions. it's not fair! sansa pushed back from her table, knocked over her chair, and ran weeping from the solar. septa mordane rose, but ned gestured her back to her seat. let her go, septa. i will try to make her understand when we are all safely back in winterfell. the septa bowed her head and sat down to finish her breakfast. it was an hour later when grand maester pycelle came to eddard stark in his solar. his shoulders slumped, as if the weight of the great maester's chain around his neck had become too great to bear. my lord, he said, king robert is gone. the gods give him rest. no, ned answered. he hated rest. the gods give him love and laughter, and the joy of righteous battle. it was strange how empty he felt. he had been expecting the visit, and yet with those words, something died within him. he would have given all his titles for the freedom to weep... but he was robert's hand, and the hour he dreaded had come. be so good as to summon the members of the council here to my solar, he told pycelle. the tower of the hand was as secure as he and tomard could make it; he could not say the same for the council chambers. my lord? pycelle blinked. surely the affairs of the kingdom will keep till the morrow, when our grief is not so fresh. ned was quiet but firm. i fear we must convene at once. pycelle bowed. as the hand commands. he called his servants and sent them running, then gratefully accepted ned's offer of a chair and a cup of sweet beer. ser barristan selmy was the first to answer the summons, immaculate in white cloak and enameled scales. my lords, he said, my place is beside the young king now. pray give me leave to attend him. your place is here, ser barristan, ned told him. littlefinger came next, still garbed in the blue velvets and silver mockingbird cape he had worn the night previous, his boots dusty from riding. my lords, he said, smiling at nothing in particular before he turned to ned. that little task you set me is accomplished, lord eddard. varys entered in a wash of lavender, pink from his bath, his plump face scrubbed and freshly powdered, his soft slippers all but soundless. the little birds sing a grievous song today, he said as he seated himself. the realm weeps. shall we begin? when lord renly arrives, ned said. varys gave him a sorrowful look. i fear lord renly has left the city. left the city? ned had counted on renly's support. he took his leave through a postern gate an hour before dawn, accompanied by ser loras tyrell and some fifty retainers, varys told them. when last seen, they were galloping south in some haste, no doubt bound for storm's end or highgarden. so much for renly and his hundred swords. ned did not like the smell of that, but there was nothing to be done for it. he drew out robert's last letter. the king called me to his side last night and commanded me to record his final words. lord renly and grand maester pycelle stood witness as robert sealed the letter, to be opened by the council after his death. ser barristan, if you would be so kind? the lord commander of the kingsguard examined the paper. king robert's seal, and unbroken. he opened the letter and read. lord eddard stark is herein named protector of the realm, to rule as regent until the heir comes of age. and as it happens, he is of age, ned reflected, but he did not give voice to the thought. he trusted neither pycelle nor varys, and ser barristan was honor-bound to protect and defend the boy he thought his new king. the old knight would not abandon joffrey easily. the need for deceit was a bitter taste in his mouth, but ned knew he must tread softly here, must keep his counsel and play the game until he was firmly established as regent. there would be time enough to deal with the succession when arya and sansa were safely back in winterfell, and lord stannis had returned to king's landing with all his power. i would ask this council to confirm me as lord protector, as robert wished, ned said, watching their faces, wondering what thoughts hid behind pycelle's half-closed eyes, littlefinger's lazy half-smile, and the nervous flutter of varys's fingers. the door opened. fat tom stepped into the solar. pardon, my lords, the king's steward insists... the royal steward entered and bowed. esteemed lords, the king demands the immediate presence of his small council in the throne room. ned had expected cersei to strike quickly; the summons came as no surprise. the king is dead, he said, but we shall go with you nonetheless. tom, assemble an escort, if you would. littlefinger gave ned his arm to help him down the steps. varys, pycelle, and ser barristan followed close behind. a double column of men-at-arms in chainmail and steel helms was waiting outside the tower, eight strong. grey cloaks snapped in the wind as the guardsmen marched them across the yard. there was no lannister crimson to be seen, but ned was reassured by the number of gold cloaks visible on the ramparts and at the gates. janos slynt met them at the door to the throne room, armored in ornate black- and-go id plate, with a high-crested helm under one arm. the commander bowed stiffly. his men pushed open the great oaken doors, twenty feet tall and banded with bronze. the royal steward led them in. all hail his grace, joffrey of the houses baratheon and lannister, the first of his name, king of the andals and the rhoynar and the first men, lord of the seven kingdoms and protector of the realm, he sang out. it was a long walk to the far end of the hall, where joffrey waited atop the iron throne. supported by littlefinger, ned stark slowly limped and hopped toward the boy who called himself king. the others followed. the first time he had come this way, he had been on horseback, sword in hand, and the targaryen dragons had watched from the walls as he forced jaime lannister down from the throne. he wondered if joffrey would step down quite so easily. five knights of the kingsguard-all but ser jaime and ser barristan- were arrayed in a crescent around the base of the throne. they were in full armor, enameled steel from helm to heel, long pale cloaks over their shoulders, shining white shields strapped to their left arms. cersei lannister and her two younger children stood behind ser boros and ser meryn. the queen wore a gown of sea-green silk, trimmed with myrish lace as pale as foam. on her finger was a golden ring with an emerald the size of a pigeon's egg, on her head a matching tiara. above them, prince joffrey sat amidst the barbs and spikes in a cloth-of-gold doublet and a red satin cape. sandor clegane was stationed at the foot of the throne's steep narrow stair. he wore mail and soot-grey plate and his snarling dog's-head helm. behind the throne, twenty lannister guardsmen waited with longswords hanging from their belts. crimson cloaks draped their shoulders and steel lions crested their helms. but littlefinger had kept his promise; all along the walls, in front of robert's tapestries with their scenes of hunt and battle, the gold-cloaked ranks of the city watch stood stiffly to attention, each man's hand clasped around the haft of an eight-foot-long spear tipped in black iron. they outnumbered the lannisters five to one. ned's leg was a blaze of pain by the time he stopped. he kept a hand on littlefinger's shoulder to help support his weight. joffrey stood. his red satin cape was patterned in gold thread; fifty roaring lions to one side, fifty prancing stags to the other. i command the council to make all the necessary arrangements for my coronation, the boy proclaimed. i wish to be crowned within the fortnight. today i shall accept oaths of fealty from my loyal councillors. ned produced robert's letter. lord varys, be so kind as to show this to my lady of lannister. the eunuch carried the letter to cersei. the queen glanced at the words. protector of the realm, she read. is this meant to be your shield, my lord? a piece of paper? she ripped the letter in half, ripped the halves in quarters, and let the pieces flutter to the floor. those were the king's words, ser barristan said, shocked. we have a new king now, cersei lannister replied. lord eddard, when last we spoke, you gave me some counsel. allow me to return the courtesy. bend the knee, my lord. bend the knee and swear fealty to my son, and we shall allow you to step down as hand and live out your days in the grey waste you call home. would that i could, ned said grimly. if she was so determined to force the issue here and now, she left him no choice. your son has no claim to the throne he sits. lord stannis is robert's true heir. liar! joffrey screamed, his face reddening. mother, what does he mean? princess myrcella asked the queen plaintively. isn't joff the king now? you condemn yourself with your own mouth, lord stark, said cersei lannister. ser barristan, seize this traitor. the lord commander of the kingsguard hesitated. in the blink of an eye he was surrounded by stark guardsmen, bare steel in their mailed fists. and now the treason moves from words to deeds, cersei said. do you think ser barristan stands alone, my lord? with an ominous rasp of metal on metal, the hound drew his longsword. the knights of the kingsguard and twenty lannister guardsmen in crimson cloaks moved to support him. kill him! the boy king screamed down from the iron throne. kill all of them, i command it! you leave me no choice, ned told cersei lannister. he called out to janos slynt. commander, take the queen and her children into custody. do them no harm, but escort them back to the royal apartments and keep them there, under guard. men of the watch! janos slynt shouted, donning his helm. a hundred gold cloaks leveled their spears and closed. i want no bloodshed, ned told the queen. tell your men to lay down their swords, and no one need- with a single sharp thrust, the nearest gold cloak drove his spear into tomard's back. fat tom's blade dropped from nerveless fingers as the wet red point burst out through his ribs, piercing leather and mail. he was dead before his sword hit the floor. ned's shout came far too late. janos slynt himself slashed open varly's throat. cayn whirled, steel flashing, drove back the nearest spearman with a flurry of blows; for an instant it looked as though he might cut his way free. then the hound was on him. sandor clegane's first cut took off cayn's sword hand at the wrist; his second drove him to his knees and opened him from shoulder to breastbone. as his men died around him, littlefinger slid ned's dagger from its sheath and shoved it up under his chin. his smile was apologetic. i did warn you not to trust me, you know. the straw on the floor stank of urine. there was no window, no bed, not even a slop bucket. he remembered walls of pale red stone festooned with patches of nitre, a grey door of splintered wood, four inches thick and studded with iron. he had seen them, briefly, a quick glimpse as they shoved him inside. once the door had slammed shut, he had seen no more. the dark was absolute. he had as well been blind. or dead. buried with his king. ah, robert, he murmured as his groping hand touched a cold stone wall, his leg throbbing with every motion. he remembered the jest the king had shared in the crypts of winterfell, as the kings of winter looked on with cold stone eyes. the king eats, robert had said, and the hand takes the shit. how he had laughed. yet he had gotten it wrong. the king dies, ned stark thought, and the hand is buried. the dungeon was under the red keep, deeper than he dared imagine. he remembered the old stories about maegor the cruel, who murdered all the masons who labored on his castle, so they might never reveal its secrets. he damned them all: littlefinger, janos slynt and his gold cloaks, the queen, the kingslayer, pycelle and varys and ser barristan, even lord renly, robert's own blood, who had run when he was needed most. yet in the end he blamed himself. fool, he cried to the darkness, thrice- damned blind fool. cersei lannister's face seemed to float before him in the darkness. her hair was full of sunlight, but there was mockery in her smile. when you play the game of thrones, you win or you die, she whispered. ned had played and lost, and his men had paid the price of his folly with their life's blood. when he thought of his daughters, he would have wept gladly, but the tears would not come. even now, he was a stark of winterfell, and his grief and his rage froze hard inside him. when he kept very still, his leg did not hurt so much, so he did his best to lie unmoving. for how long he could not say. there was no sun and no moon. he could not see to mark the walls. ned closed his eyes and opened them; it made no difference. he slept and woke and slept again. he did not know which was more painful, the waking or the sleeping. when he slept, he dreamed: dark disturbing dreams of blood and broken promises. when he woke, there was nothing to do but think, and his waking thoughts were worse than nightmares. the thought of cat was as painful as a bed of nettles. he wondered where she was, what she was doing. he wondered whether he would ever see her again. hours turned to days, or so it seemed. he could feel a dull ache in his shattered leg, an itch beneath the plaster. when he touched his thigh, the flesh was hot to his fingers. the only sound was his breathing. after a time, he began to talk aloud, just to hear a voice. he made plans to keep himself sane, built castles of hope in the dark. robert's brothers were out in the world, raising armies at dragonstone and storm's end. alyn and harwin would return to king's landing with the rest of his household guard once they had dealt with ser gregor. catelyn would raise the north when the word reached her, and the lords of river and mountain and vale would join her. he found himself thinking of robert more and more. he saw the king as he had been in the flower of his youth, tall and handsome, his great antlered helm on his head, his warhammer in hand, sitting his horse like a horned god. he heard his laughter in the dark, saw his eyes, blue and clear as mountain lakes. look at us, ned, robert said. gods, how did we come to this? you here, and me killed by a pig. we won a throne together... i failed you, robert, ned thought. he could not say the words. i lied to you, hid the truth. i let them kill you. the king heard him. you stiff-necked fool, he muttered, too proud to listen. can you eat pride, stark? will honor shield your children? cracks ran down his face, fissures opening in the flesh, and he reached up and ripped the mask away. it was not robert at all; it was littlefinger, grinning, mocking him. when he opened his mouth to speak, his lies turned to pale grey moths and took wing. ned was half-asleep when the footsteps came down the hall. at first he thought he dreamt them; it had been so long since he had heard anything but the sound of his own voice. ned was feverish by then, his leg a dull agony, his lips parched and cracked. when the heavy wooden door creaked open, the sudden light was painful to his eyes. a gaoler thrust a jug at him. the clay was cool and beaded with moisture. ned grasped it with both hands and gulped eagerly. water ran from his mouth and dripped down through his beard. he drank until he thought he would be sick. how long..? he asked weakly when he could drink no more. the gaoler was a scarecrow of a man with a rat's face and frayed beard, clad in a mail shirt and a leather half cape. no talking, he said as he wrenched the jug from ned's hands. please, ned said, my daughters... the door crashed shut. he blinked as the light vanished, lowered his head to his chest, and curled up on the straw. it no longer stank of urine and shit. it no longer smelled at all. he could no longer tell the difference between waking and sleeping. the memory came creeping upon him in the darkness, as vivid as a dream. it was the year of false spring, and he was eighteen again, down from the eyrie to the tourney at harrenhal. he could see the deep green of the grass, and smell the pollen on the wind. warm days and cool nights and the sweet taste of wine. he remembered brandon's laughter, and robert's berserk valor in the melee, the way he laughed as he unhorsed men left and right. he remembered jaime lannister, a golden youth in scaled white armor, kneeling on the grass in front of the king's pavilion and making his vows to protect and defend king aerys. afterward, ser oswell whent helped jaime to his feet, and the white bull himself, lord commander ser gerold hightower, fastened the snowy cloak of the kingsguard about his shoulders. all six white swords were there to welcome their newest brother. yet when the jousting began, the day belonged to rhaegar targaryen. the crown prince wore the armor he would die in: gleaming black plate with the three-headed dragon of his house wrought in rubies on the breast. a plume of scarlet silk streamed behind him when he rode, and it seemed no lance could touch him. brandon fell to him, and bronze yohn royce, and even the splendid ser arthur dayne, the sword of the morning. robert had been jesting with jon and old lord hunter as the prince circled the field after unhorsing ser barristan in the final tilt to claim the champion's crown. ned remembered the moment when all the smiles died, when prince rhaegar targaryen urged his horse past his own wife, the dornish princess elia martell, to lay the queen of beauty's laurel in lyanna's lap. he could see it still: a crown of winter roses, blue as frost. ned stark reached out his hand to grasp the flowery crown, but beneath the pale blue petals the thorns lay hidden. he felt them clawing at his skin, sharp and cruel, saw the slow trickle of blood run down his fingers, and woke, trembling, in the dark. promise me, ned, his sister had whispered from her bed of blood. she had loved the scent of winter roses. gods save me, ned wept. i am going mad. the gods did not deign to answer. each time the turnkey brought him water, he told himself another day had passed. at first he would beg the man for some word of his daughters and the world beyond his cell. grunts and kicks were his only replies. later, when the stomach cramps began, he begged for food instead. it made no matter; he was not fed. perhaps the lannisters meant for him to starve to death. no, he told himself. if cersei had wanted him dead, he would have been cut down in the throne room with his men. she wanted him alive. weak, desperate, yet alive. catelyn held her brother; she dare not kill him or the imp's life would be forfeit as well. from outside his cell came the rattle of iron chains. as the door creaked open, ned put a hand to the damp wall and pushed himself toward the light. the glare of a torch made him squint. food, he croaked. wine, a voice answered. it was not the rat-faced man; this gaoler was stouter, shorter, though he wore the same leather half cape and spiked steel cap. drink, lord eddard. he thrust a wineskin into ned's hands. the voice was strangely familiar, yet it took ned stark a moment to place it. varys? he said groggily when it came. he touched the man's face. i'm not... not dreaming this. you're here. the eunuch's plump cheeks were covered with a dark stubble of beard. ned felt the coarse hair with his fingers. varys had transformed himself into a grizzled turnkey, reeking of sweat and sour wine. how did you... what sort of magician are you? a thirsty one, varys said. drink, my lord. ned's hands fumbled at the skin. is this the same poison they gave robert? you wrong me, varys said sadly. truly, no one loves a eunuch. give me the skin. he drank, a trickle of red leaking from the corner of his plump mouth. not the equal of the vintage you offered me the night of the tourney, but no more poisonous than most, he concluded, wiping his lips. here. ned tried a swallow. dregs. he felt as though he were about to bring the wine back up. all men must swallow the sour with the sweet. high lords and eunuchs alike. your hour has come, my lord. my daughters... the younger girl escaped ser meryn and fled, varys told him. i have not been able to find her. nor have the lannisters. a kindness, there. our new king loves her not. your older girl is still betrothed to joffrey. cersei keeps her close. she came to court a few days ago to plead that you be spared. a pity you couldn't have been there, you would have been touched. he leaned forward intently. i trust you realize that you are a dead man, lord eddard? the queen will not kill me, ned said. his head swam; the wine was strong, and it had been too long since he'd eaten. cat... cat holds her brother... the wrong brother, varys sighed. and lost to her, in any case. she let the imp slip through her fingers. i expect he is dead by now, somewhere in the mountains of the moon. if that is true, slit my throat and have done with it. he was dizzy from the wine, tired and heartsick. your blood is the last thing i desire. ned frowned. when they slaughtered my guard, you stood beside the queen and watched, and said not a word. and would again. i seem to recall that i was unarmed, unarmored, and surrounded by lannister swords. the eunuch looked at him curiously, tilting his head. when i was a young boy, before i was cut, i traveled with a troupe of mummers through the free cities. they taught me that each man has a role to play, in life as well as mummery. so it is at court. the king's justice must be fearsome, the master of coin must be frugal, the lord commander of the kingsguard must be valiant... and the master of whisperers must be sly and obsequious and without scruple. a courageous informer would be as useless as a cowardly knight. he took the wineskin back and drank. ned studied the eunuch's face, searching for truth beneath the mummer's scars and false stubble. he tried some more wine. this time it went down easier. can you free me from this pit? i could... but will i? no. questions would be asked, and the answers would lead back to me. ned had expected no more. you are blunt. a eunuch has no honor, and a spider does not enjoy the luxury of scruples, my lord. would you at least consent to carry a message out for me? that would depend on the message. i will gladly provide you with paper and ink, if you like. and when you have written what you will, i will take the letter and read it, and deliver it or not, as best serves my own ends. your own ends. what ends are those, lord varys? peace, varys replied without hesitation. if there was one soul in king's landing who was truly desperate to keep robert baratheon alive, it was me. he sighed. for fifteen years i protected him from his enemies, but i could not protect him from his friends. what strange fit of madness led you to tell the queen that you had learned the truth of joffrey' s birth? the madness of mercy, ned admitted. ah, said varys. to be sure. you are an honest and honorable man, lord eddard. ofttimes i forget that. i have met so few of them in my life. he glanced around the cell. when i see what honesty and honor have won you, i understand why. ned stark laid his head back against the damp stone wall and closed his eyes. his leg was throbbing. the king's wine... did you question lancel? oh, indeed. cersei gave him the wineskins, and told him it was robert's favorite vintage. the eunuch shrugged. a hunter lives a perilous life. if the boar had not done for robert, it would have been a fall from a horse, the bite of a wood adder, an arrow gone astray... the forest is the abbatoir of the gods. it was not wine that killed the king. it was your mercy. ned had feared as much. gods forgive me. if there are gods, varys said, i expect they will. the queen would not have waited long in any case. robert was becoming unruly, and she needed to be rid of him to free her hands to deal with his brothers. they are quite a pair, stannis and renly. the iron gauntlet and the silk glove. he wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. you have been foolish, my lord. you ought to have heeded littlefinger when he urged you to support joffrey's succession. how... how could you know of that? varys smiled. i know, that's all that need concern you. i also know that on the morrow the queen will pay you a visit. slowly ned raised his eyes. why? cersei is frightened of you, my lord... but she has other enemies she fears even more. her beloved jaime is fighting the river lords even now. lysa arryn sits in the eyrie, ringed in stone and steel, and there is no love lost between her and the queen. in dome, the martells still brood on the murder of princess elia and her babes. and now your son marches down the neck with a northern host at his back. robb is only a boy, ned said, aghast. a boy with an army, varys said. yet only a boy, as you say. the king's brothers are the ones giving cersei sleepless nights... lord stannis in particular. his claim is the true one, he is known for his prowess as a battle commander, and he is utterly without mercy. there is no creature on earth half so terrifying as a truly just man. no one knows what stannis has been doing on dragonstone, but i will wager you that he's gathered more swords than seashells. so here is cersei' s nightmare: while her father and brother spend their power battling starks and tullys, lord stannis will land, proclaim himself king, and lop off her son's curly blond head... and her own in the bargain, though i truly believe she cares more about the boy. stannis baratheon is robert's true heir, ned said. the throne is his by rights. i would welcome his ascent. varys tsked. cersei will not want to hear that, i promise you. stannis may win the throne, but only your rotting head will remain to cheer unless you guard that tongue of yours. sansa begged so sweetly, it would be a shame if you threw it all away. you are being given your life back, if you'll take it. cersei is no fool. she knows a tame wolf is of more use than a dead one. you want me to serve the woman who murdered my king, butchered my men, and crippled my son? ned's voice was thick with disbelief. i want you to serve the realm, varys said. tell the queen that you will confess your vile treason, command your son to lay down his sword, and proclaim joffrey as the true heir. offer to denounce stannis and renly as faithless usurpers. our green-eyed lioness knows you are a man of honor. if you will give her the peace she needs and the time to deal with stannis, and pledge to carry her secret to your grave, i believe she will allow you to take the black and live out the rest of your days on the wall, with your brother and that baseborn son of yours. the thought of jon filled ned with a sense of shame, and a sorrow too deep for words. if only he could see the boy again, sit and talk with him... pain shot through his broken leg, beneath the filthy grey plaster of his cast. he winced, his fingers opening and closing helplessly. is this your own scheme, he gasped out at varys, or are you in league with littlefinger? that seemed to amuse the eunuch. i would sooner wed the black goat of qohor. littlefinger is the second most devious man in the seven kingdoms. oh, i feed him choice whispers, sufficient so that he thinks i am his... just as i allow cersei to believe i am hers. and just as you let me believe that you were mine. tell me, lord varys, who do you truly serve? varys smiled thinly. why, the realm, my good lord, how ever could you doubt that? i swear it by my lost manhood. i serve the realm, and the realm needs peace. he finished the last swallow of wine, and tossed the empty skin aside. so what is your answer, lord eddard? give me your word that you'll tell the queen what she wants to hear when she comes calling. if i did, my word would be as hollow as an empty suit of armor. my life is not so precious to me as that. pity. the eunuch stood. and your daughter's life, my lord? how precious is that? a chill pierced ned's heart. my daughter surely you did not think i'd forgotten about your sweet innocent, my lord? the queen most certainly has not. no, ned pleaded, his voice cracking. varys, gods have mercy, do as you like with me, but leave my daughter out of your schemes. sansa's no more than a child. rhaenys was a child too. prince rhaegar's daughter. a precious little thing, younger than your girls. she had a small black kitten she called balerion, did you know? i always wondered what happened to him. rhaenys liked to pretend he was the true balerion, the black dread of old, but i imagine the lannisters taught her the difference between a kitten and a dragon quick enough, the day they broke down her door. varys gave a long weary sigh, the sigh of a man who carried all the sadness of the world in a sack upon his shoulders. the high septon once told me that as we sin, so do we suffer. if that's true, lord eddard, tell me... why is it always the innocents who suffer most, when you high lords play your game of thrones? ponder it, if you would, while you wait upon the queen. and spare a thought for this as well: the next visitor who calls on you could bring you bread and cheese and the milk of the poppy for your pain... or he could bring you sansa's head. the choice, my dear lord hand, is entirely yours. 