eddard stark had left before dawn, septa mordane informed sansa as they broke their fast. the king sent for him. another hunt, i do believe. there are still wild aurochs in these lands, i am told. i've never seen an aurochs, sansa said, feeding a piece of bacon to lady under the table. the direwolf took it from her hand, as delicate as a queen. septa mordane sniffed in disapproval. a noble lady does not feed dogs at her table, she said, breaking off another piece of comb and letting the honey drip down onto her bread. she's not a dog, she's a direwolf, sansa pointed out as lady licked her fingers with a rough tongue. anyway, father said we could keep them with us if we want. the septa was not appeased. you're a good girl, sansa, but i do vow, when it comes to that creature you're as willful as your sister arya. she scowled. and where is arya this morning? she wasn't hungry, sansa said, knowing full well that her sister had probably stolen down to the kitchen hours ago and wheedled a breakfast out of some cook's boy. do remind her to dress nicely today. the grey velvet, perhaps. we are all invited to ride with the queen and princess myrcella in the royal wheelhouse, and we must look our best. sansa already looked her best. she had brushed out her long auburn hair until it shone, and picked her nicest blue silks. she had been looking forward to today for more than a week. it was a great honor to ride with the queen, and besides, prince joffrey might be there. her betrothed. just thinking it made her feel a strange fluttering inside, even though they were not to marry for years and years. sansa did not really know joffrey yet, but she was already in love with him. he was all she ever dreamt her prince should be, tall and handsome and strong, with hair like gold. she treasured every chance to spend time with him, few as they were. the only thing that scared her about today was arya. arya had a way of ruining everything. you never knew what she would do. i'll tell her, sansa said uncertainly, but she'll dress the way she always does. she hoped it wouldn't be too embarrassing. may i be excused? you may. septa mordane helped herself to more bread and honey, and sansa slid from the bench. lady followed at her heels as she ran from the inn's common room. outside, she stood for a moment amidst the shouts and curses and the creak of wooden wheels as the men broke down the tents and pavilions and loaded the wagons for another day's march. the inn was a sprawling three-story structure of pale stone, the biggest that sansa had ever seen, but even so, it had accommodations for less than a third of the king's party, which had swollen to more than four hundred with the addition of her father's household and the freeriders who had joined them on the road. she found arya on the banks of the trident, trying to hold nymeria still while she brushed dried mud from her fur. the direwolf was not enjoying the process. arya was wearing the same riding leathers she had worn yesterday and the day before. you better put on something pretty, sansa told her. septa mordane said so. we're traveling in the queen's wheelhouse with princess myrcella today. i'm not, arya said, trying to brush a tangle out of nymeria's matted grey fur. mycah and i are going to ride upstream and look for rubies at the ford. rubies, sansa said, lost. what rubies? arya gave her a look like she was so stupid. rhaegar's rubies. this is where king robert killed him and won the crown. sansa regarded her scrawny little sister in disbelief. you can't look for rubies, the princess is expecting us. the queen invited us both. i don't care, arya said. the wheelhouse doesn't even have windows, you can't see a thing. what could you want to see? sansa said, annoyed. she had been thrilled by the invitation, and her stupid sister was going to ruin everything, just as she'd feared. it's all just fields and farms and holdfasts. it is not, arya said stubbornly. if you came with us sometimes, you'd see. i hate riding, sansa said fervently. all it does is get you soiled and dusty and sore. arya shrugged. hold still, she snapped at nymeria, i'm not hurting you. then to sansa she said, when we were crossing the neck, i counted thirty-six flowers i never saw before, and mycah showed me a lizard-lion. sansa shuddered. they had been twelve days crossing the neck, rumbling down a crooked causeway through an endless black bog, and she had hated every moment of it. the air had been damp and clammy, the causeway so narrow they could not even make proper camp at night, they had to stop right on the kingsroad. dense thickets of halfdrowned trees pressed close around them, branches dripping with curtains of pale fungus. huge flowers bloomed in the mud and floated on pools of stagnant water, but if you were stupid enough to leave the causeway to pluck them, there were quicksands waiting to suck you down, and snakes watching from the trees, and lizard-lions floating half-submerged in the water, like black logs with eyes and teeth. none of which stopped arya, of course. one day she came back grinning her horsey grin, her hair all tangled and her clothes covered in mud, clutching a raggedy bunch of purple and green flowers for father. sansa kept hoping he would tell arya to behave herself and act like the highborn lady she was supposed to be, but he never did, he only hugged her and thanked her for the flowers. that just made her worse. then it turned out the purple flowers were called poison kisses, and arya got a rash on her arms. sansa would have thought that might have taught her a lesson, but arya laughed about it, and the next day she rubbed mud all over her arms like some ignorant bog woman just because her friend mycah told her it would stop the itching. she had bruises on her arms and shoulders too, dark purple welts and faded green-and- yellow splotches, sansa had seen them when her sister undressed for sleep. how she had gotten those only the seven gods knew. arya was still going on, brushing out nymeria's tangles and chattering about things she'd seen on the trek south. last week we found this haunted watchtower, and the day before we chased a herd of wild horses. you should have seen them run when they caught a scent of nymeria. the wolf wriggled in her grasp and arya scolded her. stop that, i have to do the other side, you're all muddy. you're not supposed to leave the column, sansa reminded her. father said so. arya shrugged. i didn't go far. anyway, nymeria was with me the whole time. i don't always go off, either. sometimes it's fun just to ride along with the wagons and talk to people. sansa knew all about the sorts of people arya liked to talk to: squires and grooms and serving girls, old men and naked children, rough-spoken freeriders of uncertain birth. arya would make friends with anybody. this mycah was the worst; a butcher's boy, thirteen and wild, he slept in the meat wagon and smelled of the slaughtering block. just the sight of him was enough to make sansa feel sick, but arya seemed to prefer his company to hers. sansa was running out of patience now. you have to come with me, she told her sister firmly. you can't refuse the queen. septa mordane will expect you. arya ignored her. she gave a hard yank with the brush. nymeria growled and spun away, affronted. come back here! there's going to be lemon cakes and tea, sansa went on, all adult and reasonable. lady brushed against her leg. sansa scratched her ears the way she liked, and lady sat beside her on her haunches, watching arya chase nymeria. why would you want to ride a smelly old horse and get all sore and sweaty when you could recline on feather pillows and eat cakes with the queen? i don't like the queen, arya said casually. sansa sucked in her breath, shocked that even arya would say such a thing, but her sister prattled on, heedless. she won't even let me bring nymeria. she thrust the brush under her belt and stalked her wolf. nymeria watched her approach warily. a royal wheelhouse is no place for a wolf, sansa said. and princess myrcella is afraid of them, you know that. myrcella is a little baby. arya grabbed nymeria around her neck, but the moment she pulled out the brush again the direwo if wriggled free and bounded off. frustrated, arya threw down the brush. bad wolf! she shouted. sansa couldn't help but smile a little. the kennelmaster once told her that an animal takes after its master. she gave lady a quick little hug. lady licked her cheek. sansa giggled. arya heard and whirled around, glaring. i don't care what you say, i'm going out riding. her long horsey face got the stubborn look that meant she was going to do something willful. gods be true, arya, sometimes you act like such a child, sansa said. i'll go by myself then. it will be ever so much nicer that way. lady and i will eat all the lemon cakes and just have the best time without you. she turned to walk off, but arya shouted after her, they won't let you bring lady either. she was gone before sansa could think of a reply, chasing nymeria along the river. alone and humiliated, sansa took the long way back to the inn, where she knew septa mordane would be waiting. lady padded quietly by her side. she was almost in tears. all she wanted was for things to be nice and pretty, the way they were in the songs. why couldn't arya be sweet and delicate and kind, like princess myrcella? she would have liked a sister like that. sansa could never understand how two sisters, born only two years apart, could be so different. it would have been easier if arya had been a bastard, like their half brother jon. she even looked like jon, with the long face and brown hair of the starks, and nothing of their lady mother in her face or her coloring. and jon's mother had been common, or so people whispered. once, when she was littler, sansa had even asked mother if perhaps there hadn't been some mistake. perhaps the grumkins had stolen her real sister. but mother had only laughed and said no, arya was her daughter and sansa's trueborn sister, blood of their blood. sansa could not think why mother would want to lie about it, so she supposed it had to be true. as she neared the center of camp, her distress was quickly forgotten. a crowd had gathered around the queen's wheelhouse. sansa heard excited voices buzzing like a hive of bees. the doors had been thrown open, she saw, and the queen stood at the top of the wooden steps, smiling down at someone. she heard her saying, the council does us great honor, my good lords. what's happening? she asked a squire she knew. the council sent riders from king's landing to escort us the rest of the way, he told her. an honor guard for the king. anxious to see, sansa let lady clear a path through the crowd. people moved aside hastily for the direwolf when she got closer, she saw two knights kneeling before the queen, in armor so fine and gorgeous that it made her blink. one knight wore an intricate suit of white enameled scales, brilliant as a field of new-fallen snow, with silver chasings and clasps that glittered in the sun. when he removed his helm, sansa saw that he was an old man with hair as pale as his armor, yet he seemed strong and graceful for all that. from his shoulders hung the pure white cloak of the kingsguard. his companion was a man near twenty whose armor was steel plate of a deep forest-green. he was the handsomest man sansa had ever set eyes upon; tall and powerfully made, with jet-black hair that fell to his shoulders and framed a clean-shaven face, and laughing green eyes to match his armor. cradled under one arm was an antlered helm, its magnificent rack shimmering in gold. at first sansa did not notice the third stranger. he did not kneel with the others. he stood to one side, beside their horses, a gaunt grim man who watched the proceedings in silence. his face was pockmarked and beardless, with deepset eyes and hollow cheeks. though he was not an old man, only a few wisps of hair remained to him, sprouting above his ears, but those he had grown long as a woman's. his armor was iron-grey chainmail over layers of boiled leather, plain and unadorned, and it spoke of age and hard use. above his right shoulder the stained leather hilt of the blade strapped to his back was visible; a two-handed greatsword, too long to be worn at his side. the king is gone hunting, but i know he will be pleased to see you when he returns, the queen was saying to the two knights who knelt before her, but sansa could not take her eyes off the third man. he seemed to feel the weight of her gaze. slowly he turned his head. lady growled. a terror as overwhelming as anything sansa stark had ever felt filled her suddenly. she stepped backward and bumped into someone. strong hands grasped her by the shoulders, and for a moment sansa thought it was her father, but when she turned, it was the burned face of sandor clegane looking down at her, his mouth twisted in a terrible mockery of a smile. you are shaking, girl, he said, his voice rasping. do i frighten you so much? he did, and had since she had first laid eyes on the ruin that fire had made of his face, though it seemed to her now that he was not half so terrifying as the other. still, sansa wrenched away from him, and the hound laughed, and lady moved between them, rumbling a warning. sansa dropped to her knees to wrap her arms around the wolf. they were all gathered around gaping, she could feel their eyes on her, and here and there she heard muttered comments and titters of laughter. a wolf, a man said, and someone else said, seven hells, that's a direwolf, and the first man said, what's it doing in camp? and the hound's rasping voice replied, the starks use them for wet nurses, and sansa realized that the two stranger knights were looking down on her and lady, swords in their hands, and then she was frightened again, and ashamed. tears filled her eyes. she heard the queen say, joffrey, go to her. and her prince was there. leave her alone, joffrey said. he stood over her, beautiful in blue wool and black leather, his golden curls shining in the sun like a crown. he gave her his hand, drew her to her feet. what is it, sweet lady? why are you afraid? no one will hurt you. put away your swords, all of you. the wolf is her little pet, that's all. he looked at sandor clegane. and you, dog, away with you, you're scaring my betrothed. the hound, ever faithful, bowed and slid away quietly through the press. sansa struggled to steady herself. she felt like such a fool. she was a stark of winterfell, a noble lady, and someday she would be a queen. it was not him, my sweet prince, she tried to explain. it was the other one. the two stranger knights exchanged a look. payne? chuckled the young man in the green armor. the older man in white spoke to sansa gently. ofttimes ser ilyn frightens me as well, sweet lady. he has a fearsome aspect. as well he should. the queen had descended from the wheelhouse. the spectators parted to make way for her. if the wicked do not fear the mng's justice, you have put the wrong man in the office. sansa finally found her words. then surely you have chosen the right one, your grace, she said, and a gale of laughter erupted all around her. well spoken, child, said the old man in white. as befits the daughter of eddard stark. i am honored to know you, however irregular the manner of our meeting. i am ser barristan selmy, of the kingsguard. he bowed. sansa knew the name, and now the courtesies that septa mordane had taught her over the years came back to her. the lord commander of the kingsguard, she said, and councillor to robert our king and to aerys targaryen before him. the honor is mine, good knight. even in the far north, the singers praise the deeds of barristan the bold. the green knight laughed again. barristan the old, you mean. don't flatter him too sweetly, child, he thinks overmuch of himself already. he smiled at her. now, wolf girl, if you can put a name to me as well, then i must concede that you are truly our hand's daughter. joffrey stiffened beside her. have a care how you address my betrothed. i can answer, sansa said quickly, to quell her prince's anger. she smiled at the green knight. your helmet bears golden antlers, my lord. the stag is the sigil of the royal house. king robert has two brothers. by your extreme youth, you can only be renly baratheon, lord of storm's end and councillor to the king, and so i name you. ser barristan chuckled. by his extreme youth, he can only be a prancing jackanapes, and so i name him. there was general laughter, led by lord renly himself. the tension of a few moments ago was gone, and sansa was beginning to feel comfortable... until ser ilyn payne shouldered two men aside, and stood before her, unsmiling. he did not say a word. lady bared her teeth and began to growl, a low rumble full of menace, but this time sansa silenced the wolf with a gentle hand to the head. i am sorry if i offended you, ser ilyn, she said. she waited for an answer, but none came. as the headsman looked at her, his pale colorless eyes seemed to strip the clothes away from her, and then the skin, leaving her soul naked before him. still silent, he turned and walked away. sansa did not understand. she looked at her prince. did i say something wrong, your grace? why will he not speak to me? ser ilyn has not been feeling talkative these past fourteen years, lord renly commented with a sly smile. joffrey gave his uncle a look of pure loathing, then took sansa's hands in his own. aerys targaryen had his tongue ripped out with hot pincers. he speaks most eloquently with his sword, however, the queen said, and his devotion to our realm is unquestioned. then she smiled graciously and said, sansa, the good councilors and i must speak together until the king returns with your father. i fear we shall have to postpone your day with myrcella. please give your sweet sister my apologies. joffrey, perhaps you would be so kind as to entertain our guest today. it would be my pleasure, mother, joffrey said very formally. he took her by the arm and led her away from the wheelhouse, and sansa's spirits took flight. a whole day with her prince! she gazed at joffrey worshipfully. he was so gallant, she thought. the way he had rescued her from ser ilyn and the hound, why, it was almost like the songs, like the time serwyn of the mirror shield saved the princess daeryssa from the giants, or prince aemon the dragonknight championing queen naerys's honor against evil ser morgil's slanders. the touch of joffrey' s hand on her sleeve made her heart beat faster. what would you like to do? be with you, sansa thought, but she said, whatever you'd like to do, my prince. joffrey reflected a moment. we could go riding. oh, i love riding, sansa said. joffrey glanced back at lady, who was following at their heels. your wolf is liable to frighten the horses, and my dog seems to frighten you. let us leave them both behind and set off on our own, what do you say? sansa hesitated. if you like, she said uncertainly. i suppose i could tie lady up. she did not quite understand, though. i didn't know you had a dog... joffrey laughed. he's my mother's dog, in truth. she has set him to guard me, and so he does. you mean the hound, she said. she wanted to hit herself for being so slow. her prince would never love her if she seemed stupid. is it safe to leave him behind? prince joffrey looked annoyed that she would even ask. have no fear, lady. i am almost a man grown, and i don't fight with wood like your brothers. all i need is this. he drew his sword and showed it to her; a longsword adroitly shrunken to suit a boy of twelve, gleaming blue steel, castle-forged and double-edged, with a leather grip and a lion's-head pommel in gold. sansa exclaimed over it admiringly, and joffrey looked pleased. i call it lion's tooth, he said. and so they left her direwolf and his bodyguard behind them, while they ranged east along the north bank of the trident with no company save lion's tooth. it was a glorious day, a magical day. the air was warm and heavy with the scent of flowers, and the woods here had a gentle beauty that sansa had never seen in the north. prince joffrey's mount was a blood bay courser, swift as the wind, and he rode it with reckless abandon, so fast that sansa was hard-pressed to keep up on her mare. it was a day for adventures. they explored the caves by the riverbank, and tracked a shadowcat to its lair, and when they grew hungry, joffrey found a holdfast by its smoke and told them to fetch food and wine for their prince and his lady. they dined on trout fresh from the river, and sansa drank more wine than she had ever drunk before. my father only lets us have one cup, and only at feasts, she confessed to her prince. my betrothed can drink as much as she wants, joffrey said, refilling her cup. they went more slowly after they had eaten. joffrey sang for her as they rode, his voice high and sweet and pure. sansa was a little dizzy from the wine. shouldn't we be starting back? she asked. soon, joffrey said. the battleground is right up ahead, where the river bends. that was where my father killed rhaegar targaryen, you know. he smashed in his chest, crunch, right through the armor. joffrey swung an imaginary warhammer to show her how it was done. then my uncle jaime killed old aerys, and my father was king. what's that sound? sansa heard it too, floating through the woods, a kind of wooden clattering, snack snack snack. i don't know, she said. it made her nervous, though. joffrey, let's go back. i want to see what it is. joffrey turned his horse in the direction of the sounds, and sansa had no choice but to follow. the noises grew louder and more distinct, the clack of wood on wood, and as they grew closer they heard heavy breathing as well, and now and then a grunt. someone's there, sansa said anxiously. she found herself thinking of lady, wishing the direwolf was with her. you're safe with me. joffrey drew his lion's tooth from its sheath. the sound of steel on leather made her tremble. this way, he said, riding through a stand of trees. beyond, in a clearing overlooking the river, they came upon a boy and a girl playing at knights. their swords were wooden sticks, broom handles from the look of them, and they were rushing across the grass, swinging at each other lustily. the boy was years older, a head taller, and much stronger, and he was pressing the attack. the girl, a scrawny thing in soiled leathers, was dodging and managing to get her stick in the way of most of the boy's blows, but not all. when she tried to lunge at him, he caught her stick with his own, swept it aside, and slid his wood down hard on her fingers. she cried out and lost her weapon. prince joffrey laughed. the boy looked around, wide-eyed and startled, and dropped his stick in the grass. the girl glared at them, sucking on her knuckles to take the sting out, and sansa was horrified. 'arya? she called out incredulously. go away, arya shouted back at them, angry tears in her eyes. what are you doing here? leave us alone. joffrey glanced from arya to sansa and back again. your sister? she nodded, blushing. joffrey examined the boy, an ungainly lad with a coarse, freckled face and thick red hair. and who are you, boy? he asked in a commanding tone that took no notice of the fact that the other was a year his senior. mycah, the boy muttered. he recognized the prince and averted his eyes. mtord. he's the butcher's boy, sansa said. he's my friend, arya said sharply. you leave him alone. a butcher's boy who wants to be a knight, is it? joffrey swung down from his mount, sword in hand. pick up your sword, butcher's boy, he said, his eyes bright with amusement. let us see how good you are. mycah stood there, frozen with fear. joffrey walked toward him. go on, pick it up. or do you only fight little girls? she ast me to, m'lord, mycah said. she ast me to. sansa had only to glance at arya and see the flush on her sister's face to know the boy was telling the truth, but joffrey was in no mood to listen. the wine had made him wild. are you going to pick up your sword? mycah shook his head. it's only a stick, m'lord. it's not no sword, it's only a stick. and you're only a butcher's boy, and no knight. joffrey lifted lion's tooth and laid its point on mycah's cheek below the eye, as the butcher's boy stood trembling. that was my lady's sister you were hitting, do you know that? a bright bud of blood blossomed where his sword pressed into mycah's flesh, and a slow red line trickled down the boy's cheek. stop it! arya screamed. she grabbed up her fallen stick. sansa was afraid. arya, you stay out of this. i won't hurt him... much, prince joffrey told arya, never taking his eyes off the butcher's boy. arya went for him. sansa slid off her mare, but she was too slow. arya swung with both hands. there was a loud crack as the wood split against the back of the prince's head, and then everything happened at once before sansa's horrified eyes. joffrey staggered and whirled around, roaring curses. mycah ran for the trees as fast as his legs would take him. arya swung at the prince again, but this time joffrey caught the blow on lion's tooth and sent her broken stick flying from her hands. the back of his head was all bloody and his eyes were on fire. sansa was shrieking, no, no, stop it, stop it, both of you, you're spoiling it, but no one was listening. arya scooped up a rock and hurled it at joffrey' s head. she hit his horse instead, and the blood bay reared and went galloping off after mycah. stop it, don't, stop it! sansa screamed. joffrey slashed at arya with his sword, screaming obscenities, terrible words, filthy words. arya darted back, frightened now, but joffrey followed, hounding her toward the woods, backing her up against a tree. sansa didn't know what to do. she watched helplessly, almost blind from her tears. then a grey blur flashed past her, and suddenly nymeria was there, leaping, jaws closing around joffrey's sword arm. the steel fell from his fingers as the wolf knocked him off his feet, and they rolled in the grass, the wolf snarling and ripping at him, the prince shrieking in pain. get it off, he screamed. get it off! arya's voice cracked like a whip. nymeria! the direwolf let go of joffrey and moved to arya's side. the prince lay in the grass, whimpering, cradling his mangled arm. his shirt was soaked in blood. arya said, she didn't hurt you... much. she picked up lion's tooth where it had fallen, and stood over him, holding the sword with both hands. joffrey made a scared whimpery sound as he looked up at her. no, he said, don't hurt me. i'll tell my mother. you leave him alone! sansa screamed at her sister. arya whirled and heaved the sword into the air, putting her whole body into the throw. the blue steel flashed in the sun as the sword spun out over the river. it hit the water and vanished with a splash. joffrey moaned. arya ran off to her horse, nymeria loping at her heels. after they had gone, sansa went to prince joffrey. his eyes were closed in pain, his breath ragged. sansa knelt beside him. joffrey, she sobbed. oh, look what they did, look what they did. my poor prince. don't be afraid. i'll ride to the holdfast and bring help for you. tenderly she reached out and brushed back his soft blond hair. his eyes snapped open and looked at her, and there was nothing but loathing there, nothing but the vilest contempt. then go, he spit at her. and don't touch me. sansa rode to the hand's tourney with septa mordane and jeyne poole, in a litter with curtains of yellow silk so fine she could see right through them. they turned the whole world gold. beyond the city walls, a hundred pavilions had been raised beside the river, and the common folk came out in the thousands to watch the games. the splendor of it all took sansa's breath away; the shining armor, the great chargers caparisoned in silver and gold, the shouts of the crowd, the banners snapping in the wind... and the knights themselves, the knights most of all. it is better than the songs, she whispered when they found the places that her father had promised her, among the high lords and ladies. sansa was dressed beautifully that day, in a green gown that brought out the auburn of her hair, and she knew they were looking at her and smiling. they watched the heroes of a hundred songs ride forth, each more fabulous than the last. the seven knights of the kingsguard took the field, all but jaime lannister in scaled armor the color of milk, their cloaks as white as freshfallen snow. ser jaime wore the white cloak as well, but beneath it he was shining gold from head to foot, with a lion's head helm and a golden sword. ser gregor clegane, the mountain that rides, thundered past them like an avalanche. sansa remembered lord yohn royce, who had guested at winterfell two years before. his armor is bronze, thousands and thousands of years old, engraved with magic runes that ward him against harm, she whispered to jeyne. septa mordane pointed out lord jason mallister, in indigo chased with silver, the wings of an eagle on his helm. he had cut down three of rhaegar's bannermen on the trident. the girls giggled over the warrior priest thoros of myr, with his flapping red robes and shaven head, until the septa told them that he had once scaled the walls of pyke with a flaming sword in hand. other riders sansa did not know; hedge knights from the fingers and highgarden and the mountains of dome, unsung freeriders and new-made squires, the younger sons of high lords and the heirs of lesser houses. younger men, most had done no great deeds as yet, but sansa and jeyne agreed that one day the seven kingdoms would resound to the sound of their names. ser balon swann. lord bryce caron of the marches. bronze yohn's heir, ser andar royce, and his younger brother ser robar, their silvered steel plate filigreed in bronze with the same ancient runes that warded their father. the twins ser horas and ser hobber, whose shields displayed the grape cluster sigil of the redwynes, burgundy on blue. patrek mallister, lord jason's son. six freys of the crossing: ser jared, ser hosteen, ser danwell, ser emmon, ser theo, ser perwyn, sons and grandsons of old lord walder frey, and his bastard son martyn rivers as well. jeyne poole confessed herself frightened by the look of jalabhar xho, an exile prince from the summer isles who wore a cape of green and scarlet feathers over skin as dark as night, but when she saw young lord beric dondarrion, with his hair like red gold and his black shield slashed by lightning, she pronounced herself willing to marry him on the instant. the hound entered the lists as well, and so too the king's brother, handsome lord renly of storm's end. jory, alyn, and harwin rode for winterfell and the north. jory looks a beggar among these others, septa mordane sniffed when he appeared. sansa could only agree. jory's armor was blue-grey plate without device or ornament, and a thin grey cloak hung from his shoulders like a soiled rag. yet he acquitted himself well, unhorsing horas redwyne in his first joust and one of the freys in his second. in his third match, he rode three passes at a freerider named lothor brune whose armor was as drab as his own. neither man lost his seat, but brune's lance was steadier and his blows better placed, and the king gave him the victory. alyn and harwin fared less well; harwin was unhorsed in his first tilt by ser meryn of the kingsguard, while alyn fell to ser balon swann. the jousting went all day and into the dusk, the hooves of the great warhorses pounding down the lists until the field was a ragged wasteland of torn earth. a dozen times jeyne and sansa cried out in unison as riders crashed together, lances exploding into splinters while the commons screamed for their favorites. jeyne covered her eyes whenever a man fell, like a frightened little girl, but sansa was made of sterner stuff. a great lady knew how to behave at tournaments. even septa mordane noted her composure and nodded in approval. the kingslayer rode brilliantly. he overthrew ser andar royce and the marcher lord bryce caron as easily as if he were riding at rings, and then took a hard- fought match from white- haired barristan selmy, who had won his first two tilts against men thirty and forty years his junior. sandor clegane and his immense brother, ser gregor the mountain, seemed unstoppable as well, riding down one foe after the next in ferocious style. the most terrifying moment of the day came during ser gregor's second joust, when his lance rode up and struck a young knight from the vale under the gorget with such force that it drove through his throat, killing him instantly. the youth fell not ten feet from where sansa was seated. the point of ser gregor's lance had snapped off in his neck, and his life's blood flowed out in slow pulses, each weaker than the one before. his armor was shiny new; a bright streak of fire ran down his outstretched arm, as the steel caught the light. then the sun went behind a cloud, and it was gone. his cloak was blue, the color of the sky on a clear summer's day, trimmed with a border of crescent moons, but as his blood seeped into it, the cloth darkened and the moons turned red, one by one. jeyne poole wept so hysterically that septa mordane finally took her off to regain her composure, but sansa sat with her hands folded in her lap, watching with a strange fascination. she had never seen a man die before. she ought to be crying too, she thought, but the tears would not come. perhaps she had used up all her tears for lady and bran. it would be different if it had been jory or ser rodrik or father, she told herself. the young knight in the blue cloak was nothing to her, some stranger from the vale of arryn whose name she had forgotten as soon as she heard it. and now the world would forget his name too, sansa realized; there would be no songs sung for him. that was sad. after they carried off the body, a boy with a spade ran onto the field and shoveled dirt over the spot where he had fallen, to cover up the blood. then the jousts resumed. ser balon swann also fell to gregor, and lord renly to the hound. renly was unhorsed so violently that he seemed to fly backward off his charger, legs in the air. his head hit the ground with an audible crack that made the crowd gasp, but it was just the golden antler on his helm. one of the tines had snapped off beneath him. when lord renly climbed to his feet, the commons cheered wildly, for king robert's handsome young brother was a great favorite. he handed the broken tine to his conqueror with a gracious bow. the hound snorted and tossed the broken antler into the crowd, where the commons began to punch and claw over the little bit of gold, until lord renly walked out among them and restored the peace. by then septa mordane had returned, alone. jeyne had been feeling ill, she explained; she had helped her back to the castle. sansa had almost forgotten about jeyne. later a hedge knight in a checkered cloak disgraced himself by killing beric dondarrion's horse, and was declared forfeit. lord beric shifted his saddle to a new mount, only to be knocked right off it by thoros of myr. ser aron santagar and lothor brune tilted thrice without result; ser aron fell afterward to lord jason mallister, and brune to yohn royce's younger son, robar. in the end it came down to four; the hound and his monstrous brother gregor, jaime lannister the kingslayer, and ser loras tyre 11, the youth they called the knight of flowers. ser loras was the youngest son of mace tyrell, the lord of highgarden and warden of the south. at sixteen, he was the youngest rider on the field, yet he had unhorsed three knights of the kingsguard that morning in his first three jousts. sansa had never seen anyone so beautiful. his plate was intricately fashioned and enameled as a bouquet of a thousand different flowers, and his snow-white stallion was draped in a blanket of red and white roses. after each victory, ser loras would remove his helm and ride slowly round the fence, and finally pluck a single white rose from the blanket and toss it to some fair maiden in the crowd. his last match of the day was against the younger royce. ser robar's ancestral runes proved small protection as ser loras split his shield and drove him from his saddle to crash with an awful clangor in the dirt. robar lay moaning as the victor made his circuit of the field. finally they called for a litter and carried him off to his tent, dazed and unmoving. sansa never saw it. her eyes were only for ser loras. when the white horse stopped in front of her, she thought her heart would burst. to the other maidens he had given white roses, but the one he plucked for her was red. sweet lady, he said, no victory is half so beautiful as you. sansa took the flower timidly, struck dumb by his gallantry. his hair was a mass of lazy brown curls, his eyes like liquid gold. she inhaled the sweet fragrance of the rose and sat clutching it long after ser loras had ridden off. when sansa finally looked up, a man was standing over her, staring. he was short, with a pointed beard and a silver streak in his hair, almost as old as her father. you must be one of her daughters, he said to her. he had grey-green eyes that did not smile when his mouth did. you have the tully look. i'm sansa stark, she said, ill at ease. the man wore a heavy cloak with a fur collar, fastened with a silver mockingbird, and he had the effortless manner of a high lord, but she did not know him. i have not had the honor, my lord. septa mordane quickly took a hand. sweet child, this is lord petyr baelish, of the king's small council. your mother was my queen of beauty once, the man said quietly. his breath smelled of mint. you have her hair. his fingers brushed against her cheek as he stroked one auburn lock. quite abruptly he turned and walked away. by then, the moon was well up and the crowd was tired, so the king decreed that the last three matches would be fought the next morning, before the melee. while the commons began their walk home, talking of the day's jousts and the matches to come on the morrow, the court moved to the riverside to begin the feast. six monstrous huge aurochs had been roasting for hours, turning slowly on wooden spits while kitchen boys basted them with butter and herbs until the meat crackled and spit. tables and benches had been raised outside the pavilions, piled high with sweetgrass and strawberries and fresh-baked bread. sansa and septa mordane were given places of high honor, to the left of the raised dais where the king himself sat beside his queen. when prince joffrey seated himself to her right, she felt her throat tighten. he had not spoken a word to her since the awful thing had happened, and she had not dared to speak to him. at first she thought she hated him for what they'd done to lady, but after sansa had wept her eyes dry, she told herself that it had not been joffrey' s doing, not truly. the queen had done it; she was the one to hate, her and arya. nothing bad would have happened except for arya. she could not hate joffrey tonight. he was too beautiful to hate. he wore a deep blue doublet studded with a double row of golden lion's heads, and around his brow a slim coronet made of gold and sapphires. his hair was as bright as the metal. sansa looked at him and trembled, afraid that he might ignore her or, worse, turn hateful again and send her weeping from the table. instead joffrey smiled and kissed her hand, handsome and gallant as any prince in the songs, and said, ser loras has a keen eye for beauty, sweet lady. he was too kind, she demurred, trying to remain modest and calm, though her heart was singing. ser loras is a true knight. do you think he will win tomorrow, my lord? no, joffrey said. my dog will do for him, or perhaps my uncle jaime. and in a few years, when i am old enough to enter the lists, i shall do for them all. he raised his hand to summon a servant with a flagon of iced summerwine, and poured her a cup. she looked anxiously at septa mordane, until joffrey leaned over and filled the septa's cup as well, so she nodded and thanked him graciously and said not another word. the servants kept the cups filled all night, yet afterward sansa could not recall ever tasting the wine. she needed no wine. she was drunk on the magic of the night, giddy with glamour, swept away by beauties she had dreamt of all her life and never dared hope to know. singers sat before the king's pavilion, filling the dusk with music. a juggler kept a cascade of burning clubs spinning through the air. the king's own fool, the pie-faced simpleton called moon boy, danced about on stilts, all in motley, making mock of everyone with such deft cruelty that sansa wondered if he was simple after all. even septa mordane was helpless before him; when he sang his little song about the high septon, she laughed so hard she spilled wine on herself. and joffrey was the soul of courtesy. he talked to sansa all night, showering her with compliments, making her laugh, sharing little bits of court gossip, explaining moon boy's japes. sansa was so captivated that she quite forgot all her courtesies and ignored septa mordane, seated to her left. all the while the courses came and went. a thick soup of barley and venison. salads of sweetgrass and spinach and plums, sprinkled with crushed nuts. snails in honey and garlic. sansa had never eaten snails before; joffrey showed her how to get the snail out of the shell, and fed her the first sweet morsel himself. then came trout fresh from the river, baked in clay; her prince helped her crack open the hard casing to expose the flaky white flesh within. and when the meat course was brought out, he served her himself, slicing a queen's portion from the joint, smiling as he laid it on her plate. she could see from the way he moved that his right arm was still troubling him, yet he uttered not a word of complaint. later came sweetbreads and pigeon pie and baked apples fragrant with cinnamon and lemon cakes frosted in sugar, but by then sansa was so stuffed that she could not manage more than two little lemon cakes, as much as she loved them. she was wondering whether she might attempt a third when the king began to shout. king robert had grown louder with each course. from time to time sansa could hear him laughing or roaring a command over the music and the clangor of plates and cutlery, but they were too far away for her to make out his words. now everybody heard him. no, he thundered in a voice that drowned out all other speech. sansa was shocked to see the king on his feet, red of face, reeling. he had a goblet of wine in one hand, and he was drunk as a man could be. you do not tell me what to do, woman, he screamed at queen cersei. i am king here, do you understand? i rule here, and if i say that i will fight tomorrow, i will fight! everyone was staring. sansa saw ser barristan, and the king's brother renly, and the short man who had talked to her so oddly and touched her hair, but no one made a move to interfere. the queen's face was a mask, so bloodless that it might have been sculpted from snow. she rose from the table, gathered her skirts around her, and stormed off in silence, servants trailing behind. jaime lannister put a hand on the king's shoulder, but the king shoved him away hard. lannister stumbled and fell. the king guffawed. the great knight. i can still knock you in the dirt. remember that, kingslayer. he slapped his chest with the jeweled goblet, splashing wine all over his satin tunic. give me my hammer and not a man in the realm can stand before me! jaime lannister rose and brushed himself off. as you say, your grace. his voice was stiff. lord renly came forward, smiling. you've spilled your wine, robert. let me bring you a fresh goblet. sansa started as joffrey laid his hand on her arm. it grows late, the prince said. he had a queer look on his face, as if he were not seeing her at all. do you need an escort back to the castle? no, sansa began. she looked for septa mordane, and was startled to find her with her head on the table, snoring soft and ladylike snores. i mean to say... yes, thank you, that would be most kind. i am tired, and the way is so dark. i should be glad for some protection. joffrey called out, dog! sandor clegane seemed to take form out of the night, so quickly did he appear. he had exchanged his armor for a red woolen tunic with a leather dog's head sewn on the front. the light of the torches made his burned face shine a dull red. yes, your grace? he said. take my betrothed back to the castle, and see that no harm befalls her, the prince told him brusquely. and without even a word of farewell, joffrey strode off, leaving her there. sansa could feel the hound watching her. did you think joff was going to take you himself? he laughed. he had a laugh like the snarling of dogs in a pit. small chance of that. he pulled her unresisting to her feet. come, you're not the only one needs sleep. i've drunk too much, and i may need to kill my brother tomorrow. he laughed again. suddenly terrified, sansa pushed at septa mordane's shoulder, hoping to wake her, but she only snored the louder. king robert had stumbled off and half the benches were suddenly empty. the feast was over, and the beautiful dream had ended with it. the hound snatched up a torch to light their way. sansa followed close beside him. the ground was rocky and uneven; the flickering light made it seem to shift and move beneath her. she kept her eyes lowered, watching where she placed her feet. they walked among the pavilions, each with its banner and its armor hung outside, the silence weighing heavier with every step. sansa could not bear the sight of him, he frightened her so, yet she had been raised in all the ways of courtesy. a true lady would not notice his face, she told herself. you rode gallantly today, ser sandor, she made herself say. sandor clegane snarled at her. spare me your empty little compliments, girl... and your ser's. i am no knight. i spit on them and their vows. my brother is a knight. did you see him ride today? yes, sansa whispered, trembling. he was...  gallant? the hound finished. he was mocking her, she realized. no one could withstand him, she managed at last, proud of herself. it was no lie. sandor clegane stopped suddenly in the middle of a dark and empty field. she had no choice but to stop beside him. some septa trained you well. you're like one of those birds from the summer isles, aren't you? a pretty little talking -bird, repeating all the pretty little words they taught you to recite. that's unkind. sansa could feel her heart fluttering in her chest. you're frightening me. i want to go now. no one could withstand him, the hound rasped. that's truth enough. no one could ever withstand gregor. that boy today, his second joust, oh, that was a pretty bit of business. you saw that, did you? fool boy, he had no business riding in this company. no money, no squire, no one to help him with that armor. that gorget wasn't fastened proper. you think gregor didn't notice that? you think ser gregor's lance rode up by chance, do you? pretty little talking girl, you believe that, you're empty-headed as a bird for true. gregor's lance goes where gregor wants it to go. look at me. look at me! sandor clegane put a huge hand under her chin and forced her face up. he squatted in front of her, and moved the torch close. there's a pretty for you. take a good long stare. you know you want to. i've watched you turning away all the way down the kingsroad. piss on that. take your look. his fingers held her jaw as hard as an iron trap. his eyes watched hers. drunken eyes, sullen with anger. she had to look. the right side of his face was gaunt, with sharp cheekbones and a grey eye beneath a heavy brow. his nose was large and hooked, his hair thin, dark. he wore it long and brushed it sideways, because no hair grew on the other side of that face. the left side of his face was a ruin. his ear had been burned away; there was nothing left but a hole. his eye was still good, but all around it was a twisted mass of scar, slick black flesh hard as leather, pocked with craters and fissured by deep cracks that gleamed red and wet when he moved. down by his jaw, you could see a hint of bone where the flesh had been seared away. sansa began to cry. he let go of her then, and snuffed out the torch in the dirt. no pretty words for that, girl? no little compliment the septa taught you? when there was no answer, he continued. most of them, they think it was some battle. a siege, a burning tower, an enemy with a torch. one fool asked if it was dragonsbreath. his laugh was softer this time, but just as bitter. i'll tell you what it was, girl, he said, a voice from the night, a shadow leaning so close now that she could smell the sour stench of wine on his breath. i was younger than you, six, maybe seven. a woodcarver set up shop in the village under my father's keep, and to buy favor he sent us gifts. the old man made marvelous toys. i don't remember what i got, but it was gregor's gift i wanted. a wooden knight, all painted up, every joint pegged separate and fixed with strings, so you could make him fight. gregor is five years older than me, the toy was nothing to him, he was already a squire, near six foot tall and muscled like an ox. so i took his knight, but there was no joy to it, i tell you. i was scared all the while, and true enough, he found me. there was a brazier in the room. gregor never said a word, just picked me up under his arm and shoved the side of my face down in the burning coals and held me there while i screamed and screamed. you saw how strong he is. even then, it took three grown men to drag him off me. the septons preach about the seven hells. what do they know? only a man who's been burned knows what hell is truly like. my father told everyone my bedding had caught fire, and our maester gave me ointments. ointments! gregor got his ointments too. four years later, they anointed him with the seven oils and he recited his knightly vows and rhaegar targaryen tapped him on the shoulder and said, 'arise, ser gregor.'  the rasping voice trailed off. he squatted silently before her, a hulking black shape shrouded in the night, hidden from her eyes. sansa could hear his ragged breathing. she was sad for him, she realized. somehow, the fear had gone away. the silence went on and on, so long that she began to grow afraid once more, but she was afraid for him now, not for herself. she found his massive shoulder with her hand. he was no true knight, she whispered to him. the hound threw back his head and roared. sansa stumbled back, away from him, but he caught her arm. no, he growled at her, no, little bird, he was no true knight. the rest of the way into the city, sandor clegane said not a word. he led her to where the carts were waiting, told a driver to take them back to the red keep, and climbed in after her. they rode in silence through the king's gate and up torchlit city streets. he opened the postern door and led her into the castle, his burned face twitching and his eyes brooding, and he was one step behind her as they climbed the tower stairs. he took her safe all the way to the corridor outside her bedchamber. thank you, my lord, sansa said meekly. the hound caught her by the arm and leaned close. the things i told you tonight, he said, his voice sounding even rougher than usual. if you ever tell joffrey... your sister, your father... any ofthem... i won't, sansa whispered. i promise. it was not enough. if you ever tell anyone, he finished, i'll kill you. he wouldn't send ser loras, sansa told jeyne poole that night as they shared a cold supper by lamplight. i think it was because of his leg. lord eddard had taken his supper in his bedchamber with alyn, harwin, and vayon poole, the better to rest his broken leg, and septa mordane had complained of sore feet after standing in the gallery all day. arya was supposed to join them, but she was late coming back from her dancing lesson. his leg? jeyne said uncertainly. she was a pretty, dark-haired girl of sansa's own age. did ser loras hurt his leg? not his leg, sansa said, nibbling delicately at a chicken leg. father's leg, silly. it hurts him ever so much, it makes him cross. otherwise i'm certain he would have sent ser loras. her father's decision still bewildered her. when the knight of flowers had spoken up, she'd been sure she was about to see one of old nan's stories come to life. ser gregor was the monster and ser loras the true hero who would slay him. he even looked a true hero, so slim and beautiful, with golden roses around his slender waist and his rich brown hair tumbling down into his eyes. and then father had refused him! it had upset her more than she could tell. she had said as much to septa mordane as they descended the stairs from the gallery, but the septa had only told her it was not her place to question her lord father's decisions. that was when lord baelish had said, oh, i don't know, septa. some of her lord father's decisions could do with a bit of questioning. the young lady is as wise as she is lovely. he made a sweeping bow to sansa, so deep she was not quite sure if she was being complimented or mocked. septa mordane had been very upset to realize that lord baelish had overheard them. the girl was just talking, my lord, she'd said. foolish chatter. she meant nothing by the comment. lord baelish stroked his little pointed beard and said, nothing? tell me, child, why would you have sent ser loras? sansa had no choice but to explain about heroes and monsters. the king's councillor smiled. well, those are not the reasons i'd have given, but... he had touched her cheek, his thumb lightly tracing the line of a cheekbone. life is not a song, sweetling. you may learn that one day to your sorrow. sansa did not feel like telling all that to jeyne, however; it made her uneasy just to think back on it. ser ilyn's the king's justice, not ser loras, jeyne said. lord eddard should have sent him. sansa shuddered. every time she looked at ser ilyn payne, she shivered. he made her feel as though something dead were slithering over her naked skin. ser ilyn's almost like a second monster. i'm glad father didn't pick him. lord beric is as much a hero as ser loras. he's ever so brave and gallant. i suppose, sansa said doubtfully. beric dondarrion was handsome enough, but he was awfully old, almost twenty-two; the knight of flowers would have been much better. of course, jeyne had been in love with lord beric ever since she had first glimpsed him in the lists. sansa thought she was being silly; jeyne was only a steward's daughter, after all, and no matter how much she mooned after him, lord beric would never look at someone so far beneath him, even if she hadn't been half his age. it would have been unkind to say so, however, so sansa took a sip of milk and changed the subject. i had a dream that joffrey would be the one to take the white hart, she said. it had been more of a wish, actually, but it sounded better to call it a dream. everyone knew that dreams were prophetic. white harts were supposed to be very rare and magical, and in her heart she knew her gallant prince was worthier than his drunken father. a dream? truly? did prince joffrey just go up to it and touch it with his bare hand and do it no harm? no, sansa said. he shot it with a golden arrow and brought it back for me. in the songs, the knights never killed magical beasts, they just went up to them and touched them and did them no harm, but she knew joffrey liked hunting, especially the killing part. only animals, though. sansa was certain her prince had no part in murdering jory and those other poor men; that had been his wicked uncle, the kingslayer. she knew her father was still angry about that, but it wasn't fair to blame joff. that would be like blaming her for something that arya had done. i saw your sister this afternoon, jeyne blurted out, as if she'd been reading sansa's thoughts. she was walking through the stables on her hands. why would she do a thing like that? i'm sure i don't know why arya does anything. sansa hated stables, smelly places full of manure and flies. even when she went riding, she liked the boy to saddle the horse and bring it to her in the yard. do you want to hear about the court or not? i do, jeyne said. there-was a black brother, sansa said, begging men for the wall, only he was kind of old and smelly. she hadn't liked that at all. she had always imagined the night's watch to be men like uncle benjen. in the songs, they were called the black knights of the wall. but this man had been crookbacked and hideous, and he looked as though he might have lice. if this was what the night's watch was truly like, she felt sorry for her bastard half brother, jon. father asked if there were any knights in the hall who would do honor to their houses by taking the black, but no one came forward, so he gave this yoren his pick of the king's dungeons and sent him on his way. and later these two brothers came before him, freeriders from the dornish marches, and pledged their swords to the service of the king. father accepted their oaths... jeyne yawned. are there any lemon cakes? sansa did not like being interrupted, but she had to admit, lemon cakes sounded more interesting than most of what had gone on in the throne room. let's see, she said. the kitchen yielded no lemon cakes, but they did find half of a cold strawberry pie, and that was almost as good. they ate it on the tower steps, giggling and gossiping and sharing secrets, and sansa went to bed that night feeling almost as wicked as arya. the next morning she woke before first light and crept sleepily to her window to watch lord beric form up his men. they rode out as dawn was breaking over the city, with three banners going before them; the crowned stag of the king flew from the high staff, the direwolf of stark and lord beric's own forked lightning standard from shorter poles. it was all so exciting, a song come to life; the clatter of swords, the flicker of torchlight, banners dancing in the wind, horses snorting and whinnying, the golden glow of sunrise slanting through the bars of the portcullis as it jerked upward. the winterfell men looked especially fine in their silvery mail and long grey cloaks. alyn carried the stark banner. when she saw him rein in beside lord beric to exchange words, it made sansa feel ever so proud. alyn was handsomer than jory had been; he was going to be a knight one day. the tower of the hand seemed so empty after they left that sansa was even pleased to see arya when she went down to break her fast. where is everyone? her sister wanted to know as she ripped the skin from a blood orange. did father send them to hunt down jaime lannister? sansa sighed. they rode with lord beric, to behead ser gregor clegane. she turned to septa mordane, who was eating porridge with a wooden spoon. septa, will lord beric spike ser gregor's head on his own gate or bring it back here for the king? she and jeyne poole had been arguing over that last night. the septa was horror-struck. a lady does not discuss such things over her porridge. where are your courtesies, sansa? i swear, of late you've been near as bad as your sister. what did gregor do? arya asked. he burned down a holdfast and murdered a lot of people, women and children too. arya screwed up her face in a scowl. jaime lannister murdered jory and heward and wyl, and the hound murdered mycah. somebody should have beheaded them. it's not the same, sansa said. the hound is joffrey's sworn shield. your butcher's boy attacked the prince. liar, arya said. her hand clenched the blood orange so hard that red juice oozed between her fingers. go ahead, call me all the names you want, sansa said airily. you won't dare when i'm married to joffrey. you'll have to bow to me and call me your grace. she shrieked as arya flung the orange across the table. it caught her in the middle of the forehead with a wet squish and plopped down into her lap. you have juice on your face, your grace, arya said. it was running down her nose and stinging her eyes. sansa wiped it away with a napkin. when she saw what the fruit in her lap had done to her beautiful ivory silk dress, she shrieked again. you're horrible, she screamed at her sister. they should have killed you instead of lady! septa mordane came lurching to her feet. your lord father will hear of this! go to your chambers, at once. at once! me too? tears welled in sansa's eyes. that's not fair. the matter is not subject to discussion. go! sansa stalked away with her head up. she was to be a queen, and queens did not cry. at least not where people could see. when she reached her bedchamber, she barred the door and took off her dress. the blood orange had left a blotchy red stain on the silk. i hate her! she screamed. she balled up the dress and flung it into the cold hearth, on top of the ashes of last night's fire. when she saw that the stain had bled through onto her underskirt, she began to sob despite herself. she ripped off the rest of her clothes wildly, threw herself into bed, and cried herself back to sleep. it was midday when septa mordane knocked upon her door. sansa. your lord father will see you now. sansa sat up. lady, she whispered. for a moment it was as if the direwolf was there in the room, looking at her with those golden eyes, sad and knowing. she had been dreaming, she realized. lady was with her, and they were running together, and... and... trying to remember was like trying to catch the rain with her fingers. the dream faded, and lady was dead again. sansa. the rap came again, sharply. do you hear me? yes, septa, she called out. might i have a moment to dress, please? her eyes were red from crying, but she did her best to make herself beautiful. lord eddard was bent over a huge leather-bound book when septa mordane marched her into the solar, his plaster- wrapped leg stiff beneath the table. come here, sansa, he said, not unkindly, when the septa had gone for her sister. sit beside me. he closed the book. septa mordane returned with arya squirming in her grasp. sansa had put on a lovely pale green damask gown and a look of remorse, but her sister was still wearing the ratty leathers and roughspun she'd worn at breakfast. here is the other one, the septa announced. my thanks, septa mordane. i would talk to my daughters alone, if you would be so kind. the septa bowed and left. arya started it, sansa said quickly, anxious to have the first word. she called me a liar and threw an orange at me and spoiled my dress, the ivory silk, the one queen cersei gave me when i was betrothed to prince joffrey. she hates that i'm going to marry the prince. she tries to spoil everything, father, she can't stand for anything to be beautiful or nice or splendid. enough, sansa. lord eddard's voice was sharp with impatience. arya raised her eyes. i'm sorry, father. i was wrong and i beg my sweet sister's forgiveness. sansa was so startled that for a moment she was speechless. finally she found her voice. what about my dress? maybe... i could wash it, arya said doubtfully. washing won't do any good, sansa said. not if you scrubbed all day and all night. the silk is ruined. then i'll... make you a new one, arya said. sansa threw back her head in disdain. you? you couldn't sew a dress fit to clean the pigsties. their father sighed. i did not call you here to talk of dresses. i'm sending you both back to winterfell. for the second time sansa found herself too stunned for words. she felt her eyes grow moist again. you can't, arya said. please, father, sansa managed at last. please don't. eddard stark favored his daughters with a tired smile. at last we've found something you agree on. i didn't do anything wrong, sansa pleaded with him. i don't want to go back. she loved king's landing; the pagaentry of the court, the high lords and ladies in their velvets and silks and gemstones, the great city with all its people. the tournament had been the most magical time of her whole life, and there was so much she had not seen yet, harvest feasts and masked balls and mummer shows. she could not bear the thought of losing it all. send arya away, she started it, father, i swear it. i'll be good, you'll see, just let me stay and i promise to be as fine and noble and courteous as the queen. father's mouth twitched strangely. sansa, i'm not sending you away for fighting, though the gods know i'm sick of you two squabbling. i want you back in winterfell for your own safety. three of my men were cut down like dogs not a league from where we sit, and what does robert do? he goes hunting. arya was chewing at her lip in that disgusting way she had. can we take syrio back with us? who cares about your stupid dancing master? sansa flared. father, i only just now remembered, i can't go away, i'm to marry prince joffrey. she tried to smile bravely for him. i love him, father, i truly truly do, i love him as much as queen naerys loved prince aemon the dragonknight, as much as jonquil loved ser florian. i want to be his queen and have his babies. sweet one, her father said gently, listen to me. when you're old enough, i will make you a match with a high lord who's worthy of you, someone brave and gentle and strong. this match with joffrey was a terrible mistake. that boy is no prince aemon, you must believe me. he is! sansa insisted. i don't want someone brave and gentle, i want him. we'll be ever so happy, just like in the songs, you'll see. i'll give him a son with golden hair, and one day he'll be the king of all the realm, the greatest king that ever was, as brave as the wolf and as proud as the lion. arya made a face. not if joffrey's his father, she said. he's a liar and a craven and anyhow he's a stag, not a lion. sansa felt tears in her eyes. he is not! he's not the least bit like that old drunken king, she screamed at her sister, forgetting herself in her grief. father looked at her strangely. gods, he swore softly, out of the mouth of babes... he shouted for septa mordane. to the girls he said, i am looking for a fast trading galley to take you home. these days, the sea is safer than the kingsroad. you will sail as soon as i can find a proper ship, with septa mordane and a complement of guards... and yes, with syrio forel, if he agrees to enter my service. but say nothing of this. it's better if no one knows of our plans. we'll talk again tomorrow. sansa cried as septa mordane marched them down the steps. they were going to take it all away; the tournaments and the court and her prince, everything, they were going to send her back to the bleak grey walls of winterfell and lock her up forever. her life was over before it had begun. stop that weeping, child, septa mordane said sternly. i am certain your lord father knows what is best for you. it won't be so bad, sansa, arya said. we're going to sail on a galley. it will be an adventure, and then we'll be with bran and robb again, and old nan and hodor and the rest. she touched her on the arm. hodor! sansa yelled. you ought to marry hodor, you're just like him, stupid and hairy and ugly! she wrenched away from her sister's hand, stormed into her bedchamber, and barred the door behind her. they came for sansa on the third day. she chose a simple dress of dark grey wool, plainly cut but richly embroidered around the collar and sleeves. her fingers felt thick and clumsy as she struggled with the silver fastenings without the benefit of servants. jeyne poole had been confined with her, but jeyne was useless. her face was puffy from all her crying, and she could not seem to stop sobbing about her father. i'm certain your father is well, sansa told her when she had finally gotten the dress buttoned right. i'll ask the queen to let you see him. she thought that kindness might lift jeyne's spirits, but the other girl just looked at her with red, swollen eyes and began to cry all the harder. she was such a child. sansa had wept too, the first day. even within the stout walls of maegor's holdfast, with her door closed and barred, it was hard not to be terrified when the killing began. she had grown up to the sound of steel in the yard, and scarcely a day of her life had passed without hearing the clash of sword on sword, yet somehow knowing that the fighting was real made all the difference in the world. she heard it as she had never heard it before, and there were other sounds as well, grunts of pain, angry curses, shouts for help, and the moans of wounded and dying men. in the songs, the knights never screamed nor begged for mercy. so she wept, pleading through her door for them to tell her what was happening, calling for her father, for septa mordane, for the king, for her gallant prince. if the men guarding her heard her pleas, they gave no answer. the only time the door opened was late that night, when they thrust jeyne poole inside, bruised and shaking. they're killing everyone, the steward's daughter had shrieked at her. she went on and on. the hound had broken down her door with a warhammer, she said. there were bodies on the stair of the tower of the hand, and the steps were slick with blood. sansa dried her own tears as she struggled to comfort her friend. they went to sleep in the same bed, cradled in each other's arms like sisters. the second day was even worse. the room where sansa had been confined was at the top of the highest tower of maegor's holdfast. from its window, she could see that the heavy iron portcullis in the gatehouse was down, and the drawbridge drawn up over the deep dry moat that separated the keep-within-a-keep from the larger castle that surrounded it. lannister guardsmen prowled the walls with spears and crossbows to hand. the fighting was over, and the silence of the grave had settled over the red keep. the only sounds were jeyne poole's endless whimpers and sobs. they were fed-hard cheese and fresh-baked bread and milk to break their fast, roast chicken and greens at midday, and a late supper of beef and barley stew-but the servants who brought the meals would not answer sansa' s questions. that evening, some women brought her clothes from the tower of the hand, and some of jeyne's things as well, but they seemed nearly as frightened as jeyne, and when she tried to talk to them, they fled from her as if she had the grey plague. the guards outside the door still refused to let them leave the room. please, i need to speak to the queen again, sansa told them, as she told everyone she saw that day. she'll want to talk to me, i know she will. tell her i want to see her, please. if not the queen, then prince joffrey, if you'd be so kind. we're to marry when we're older. at sunset on the second day, a great bell began to ring. its voice was deep and sonorous, and the long slow clanging filled sansa with a sense of dread. the ringing went on and on, and after a while they heard other bells answering from the great sept of baelor on visenya's hill. the sound rumbled across the city like thunder, warning of the storm to come. what is it? jeyne asked, covering her ears. why are they ringing the bells? the king is dead. sansa could not say how she knew it, yet she did. the slow, endless clanging filled their room, as mournful as a dirge. had some enemy stormed the castle and murdered king robert? was that the meaning of the fighting they had heard? she went to sleep wondering, restless, and fearful. was her beautiful joffrey the king now? or had they killed him too? she was afraid for him, and for her father. if only they would tell her what was happening... that night sansa dreamt of joffrey on the throne, with herself seated beside him in a gown of woven gold. she had a crown on her head, and everyone she had ever known came before her, to bend the knee and say their courtesies. the next morning, the morning of the third day, ser boros blount of the kingsguard came to escort her to the queen. ser boros was an ugly man with a broad chest and short, bandy legs. his nose was flat, his cheeks baggy with jowls, his hair grey and brittle. today he wore white velvet, and his snowy cloak was fastened with a lion brooch. the beast had the soft sheen of gold, and his eyes were tiny rubies. you look very handsome and splendid this morning, ser boros, sansa told him. a lady remembered her courtesies, and she was resolved to be a lady no matter what. and you, my lady, ser boros said in a flat voice. her grace awaits. come with me. there were guards outside her door, lannister men-at-arms in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms. sansa made herself smile at them pleasantly and bid them a good morning as she passed. it was the first time she had been allowed outside the chamber since ser arys oakheart had led her there two mornings past. to keep you safe, my sweet one, queen cersei had told her. joffrey would never forgive me if anything happened to his precious. sansa had expected that ser boros would escort her to the royal apartments, but instead he led her out of maegor's holdfast. the bridge was down again. some workmen were lowering a man on ropes into the depths of the dry moat. when sansa peered down, she saw a body impaled on the huge iron spikes below. she averted her eyes quickly, afraid to ask, afraid to look too long, afraid he might be someone she knew. they found queen cersei in the council chambers, seated at the head of a long table littered with papers, candles, and blocks of sealing wax. the room was as splendid as any that sansa had ever seen. she stared in awe at the carved wooden screen and the twin sphinxes that sat beside the door. your grace, ser boros said when they were ushered inside by another of the kingsguard, ser mandon of the curiously dead face, i've brought the girl. sansa had hoped joffrey might be with her. her prince was not there, but three of the king's councillors were. lord petyr baelish sat on the queen's left hand, grand maester pycelle at the end of the table, while lord varys hovered over them, smelling flowery. all of them were clad in black, she realized with a feeling of dread. mourning clothes... the queen wore a high-collared black silk gown, with a hundred dark red rubies sewn into her bodice, covering her from neck to bosom. they were cut in the shape of teardrops, as if the queen were weeping blood. cersei smiled to see her, and sansa thought it was the sweetest and saddest smile she had ever seen. sansa, my sweet child, she said, i know you've been asking for me. i'm sorry that i could not send for you sooner. matters have been very unsettled, and i have not had a moment. i trust my people have been taking good care of you? everyone has been very sweet and pleasant, your grace, thank you ever so much for asking, sansa said politely. only, well, no one will talk to us or tell us what's happened us? cersei seemed puzzled. we put the steward's girl in with her, ser boros said. we did not know what else to do with her. the queen frowned. next time, you will ask, she said, her voice sharp. the gods only know what sort of tales she's been filling sansa's head with. jeyne's scared, sansa said. she won't stop crying. i promised her i'd ask if she could see her father. old grand maester pycelle lowered his eyes. her father is well, isn't he? sansa said anxiously. she knew there had been fighting, but surely no one would harm a steward. vayon poole did not even wear a sword. queen cersei looked at each of the councillors in turn. i won't have sansa fretting needlessly. what shall we do with this little friend of hers, my lords? lord petyr leaned forward. i'll find a place for her. not in the city, said the queen. do you take me for a fool? the queen ignored that. ser boros, escort this girl to lord petyr' s apartments and instruct his people to keep her there until he comes for her. tell her that littlefinger will be taking her to see her father, that ought to calm her down. i want her gone before sansa returns to her chamber. as you command, your grace, ser boros said. he bowed deeply, spun on his heel, and took his leave, his long white cloak stirring the air behind him. sansa was confused. i don't understand, she said. where is jeyne's father? why can't ser boros take her to him instead of lord petyr having to do it? she had promised herself she would be a lady, gentle as the queen and as strong as her mother, the lady catelyn, but all of a sudden she was scared again. for a second she thought she might cry. where are you sending her? she hasn't done anything wrong, she's a good girl. she's upset you, the queen said gently. we can't be having that. not another word, now. lord baelish will see that jeyne's well taken care of, i promise you. she patted the chair beside her. sit down, sansa. i want to talk to you. sansa seated herself beside the queen. cersei smiled again, but that did not make her feel any less anxious. varys was wringing his soft hands together, grand maester pycelle kept his sleepy eyes on the papers in front of him, but she could feel little finger staring. something about the way the small man looked at her made sansa feel as though she had no clothes on. goose burnps pimpled her skin. sweet sansa, queen cersei said, laying a soft hand on her wrist. such a beautiful child. i do hope you know how much joffrey and i love you. you do? sansa said, breathless. littlefinger was forgotten. her prince loved her. nothing else mattered. the queen smiled. i think of you almost as my own daughter. and i know the love you bear for joffrey. she gave a weary shake of her head. i am afraid we have some grave news about your lord father. you must be brave, child. her quiet words gave sansa a chill. what is it? your father is a traitor, dear, lord varys said. grand maester pycelle lifted his ancient head. with my own ears, i heard lord eddard swear to our beloved king robert that he would protect the young princes as if they were his own sons. and yet the moment the king was dead, he called the small council together to steal prince joffrey's rightful throne. no, sansa blurted. he wouldn't do that. he wouldn't! the queen picked up a letter. the paper was torn and stiff with dried blood, but the broken seal was her father's, the direwo if stamped in pale wax. we found this on the captain of your household guard, sansa. it is a letter to my late husband's brother stannis, inviting him to take the crown. please, your grace, there's been a mistake. sudden panic made her dizzy and faint. please, send for my father, he'll tell you, he would never write such a letter, the king was his friend. robert thought so, said the queen. this betrayal would have broken his heart. the gods are kind, that he did not live to see it. she sighed. sansa, sweetling, you must see what a dreadful position this has left us in. you are innocent of any wrong, we all know that, and yet you are the daughter of a traitor. how can i allow you to marry my son? but i love him, sansa wailed, confused and frightened. what did they mean to do to her? what had they done to her father? it was not supposed to happen this way. she had to wed joffrey, they were betrothed, he was promised to her, she had even dreamed about it. it wasn't fair to take him away from her on account of whatever her father might have done. how well i know that, child, cersei said, her voice so kind and sweet. why else should you have come to me and told me of your father's plan to send you away from us, if not for love? it was for love, sansa said in a rush. father wouldn't even give me leave to say farewell. she was the good girl, the obedient girl, but she had felt as wicked as arya that morning, sneaking away from septa mordane, defying her lord father. she had never done anything so willful before, and she would never have done it then if she hadn't loved joffrey as much as she did. he was going to take me back to winterfell and marry me to some hedge knight, even though it was joff i wanted. i told him, but he wouldn't listen. the king had been her last hope. the king could command father to let her stay in king's landing and marry prince joffrey, sansa knew he could, but the king had always frightened her. he was loud and rough-voiced and drunk as often as not, and he would probably have just sent her back to lord eddard, if they even let her see him. so she went to the queen instead, and poured out her heart, and cersei had listened and thanked her sweetly... only then ser arys had escorted her to the high room in maegor's holdfast and posted guards, and a few hours later, the fighting had begun outside. please, she finished, you have to let me marry joffrey, i'll be ever so good a wife to him, you'll see. i'll be a queen just like you, i promise. queen cersei looked to the others. my lords of the council, what do you say to her plea? the poor child, murmured varys. a love so true and innocent, your grace, it would be cruel to deny it... and yet, what can we do? her father stands condemned. his soft hands washed each other in a gesture of helpless distress. a child born of traitor's seed will find that betrayal comes naturally to her, said grand maester pycelle. she is a sweet thing now, but in ten years, who can say what treasons she may hatch? no, sansa said, horrified. i'm not, i'd never... i wouldn't betray joffrey, i love him, i swear it, i do. oh, so poignant, said varys. and yet, it is truly said that blood runs truer than oaths. she reminds me of the mother, not the father, lord petyr baelish said quietly. look at her. the hair, the eyes. she is the very image of cat at the same age. the queen looked at her, troubled, and yet sansa could see kindness in her clear green eyes. child, she said, if i could truly believe that you were not like your father, why nothing should please me more than to see you wed to my joffrey. i know he loves you with all his heart. she sighed. and yet, i fear that lord varys and the grand maester have the right of it. the blood will tell. i have only to remember how your sister set her wolf on my son. i'm not like arya, sansa blurted. she has the traitor's blood, not me. i'm good, ask septa mordane, she'll tell you, i only want to be joffrey's loyal and loving wife. she felt the weight of cersei' s eyes as the queen studied her face. i believe you mean it, child. she turned to face the others. my lords, it seems to me that if the rest of her kin were to remain loyal in this terrible time, that would go a long way toward laying our fears to rest. grand maester pycelle stroked his huge soft beard, his wide brow furrowed in thought. lord eddard has three sons. mere boys, lord petyr said with a shrug. i should be more concerned with lady catelyn and the tullys. the queen took sansa's hand in both of hers. child, do you know your letters? sansa nodded nervously. she could read and write better than any of her brothers, although she was hopeless at sums. i am pleased to hear that. perhaps there is hope for you and joffrey still... what do you want me to do? you must write your lady mother, and your brother, the eldest... what is his name? robb, sansa said. the word of your lord father's treason will no doubt reach them soon. better that it should come from you. you must tell them how lord eddard betrayed his king. sansa wanted joffrey desperately, but she did not think she had the courage to do as the queen was asking. but he never... i don't... your grace, i wouldn't know what to say... the queen patted her hand. we will tell you what to write, child. the important thing is that you urge lady catelyn and your brother to keep the king's peace. it will go hard for them if they don't, said grand maester pycelle. by the love you bear them, you must urge them to walk the path of wisdom. your lady mother will no doubt fear for you dreadfully, the queen said. you must tell her that you are well and in our care, that we are treating you gently and seeing to your every want. bid them to come to king's landing and pledge their fealty to joffrey when he takes his throne. if they do that... why, then we shall know that there is no taint in your blood, and when you come into the flower of your womanhood, you shall wed the king in the great sept of baelor, before the eyes of gods and men. ... wed the king... the words made her breath come faster, yet still sansa hesitated. perhaps... if i might see my father, talk to him about... treason? lord varys hinted. you disappoint me, sansa, the queen said, with eyes gone hard as stones. we've told you of your father's crimes. if you are truly as loyal as you say, why should you want to see him? i... i only meant sansa felt her eyes grow wet. he's not... please, he hasn't been... hurt, or... or...  lord eddard has not been harmed, the queen said. but... what's to become of him? that is a matter for the king to decide, grand maester pycelle announced ponderously. the king! sansa blinked back her tears. joffrey was the king now, she thought. her gallant prince would never hurt her father, no matter what he might have done. if she went to him and pleaded for mercy, she was certain he'd listen. he had to listen, he loved her, even the queen said so. jo ff would need to punish father, the lords would expect it, but perhaps he could send him back to winterfell, or exile him to one of the free cities across the narrow sea. it would only have to be for a few years. by then she and joffrey would be married. once she was queen, she could persuade joff to bring father back and grant him a pardon. only... if mother or robb did anything treasonous, called the banners or refused to swear fealty or anything, it would all go wrong. her joffrey was good and kind, she knew it in her heart, but a king had to be stern with rebels. she had to make them understand, she had to! i'll... i'll write the letters, sansa told them. with a smile as warm as the sunrise, cersei lannister leaned close and kissed her gently on the cheek. i knew you would. joffrey will be so proud when i tell him what courage and good sense you've shown here today. in the end, she wrote four letters. to her mother, the lady catelyn stark, and to her brothers at winterfell, and to her aunt and her grandfather as well, lady lysa arryn of the eyrie, and lord hoster tully of riverrun. by the time she had done, her fingers were cramped and stiff and stained with ink. varys had her father's seal. she warmed the pale white beeswax over a candle, poured it carefully, and watched as the eunuch stamped each letter with the direwolf of house stark. jeyne poole and all her things were gone when ser mandon moore returned sansa to the high tower of maegor's holdfast. no more weeping, she thought gratefully. yet somehow it seemed colder with jeyne gone, even after she'd built a fire. she pulled a chair close to the hearth, took down one of her favorite books, and lost herself in the stories of florian and jonquil, of lady sheila and the rainbow knight, of valiant prince aemon and his doomed love for his brother's queen. it was not until later that night, as she was drifting off to sleep, that sansa realized she had forgotten to ask about her sister. the walls of the throne room had been stripped bare, the hunting tapestries that king robert loved taken down and stacked in the corner in an untidy heap. ser mandon moore went to take his place under the throne beside two of his fellows of the kingsguard. sansa hovered by the door, for once unguarded. the queen had given her freedom of the castle as a reward for being good, yet even so, she was escorted everywhere she went. honor guards for my daughter-to-be, the queen called them, but they did not make sansa feel honored. freedom, of the castle meant that she could go wherever she chose within the red keep so long as she promised not to go beyond the walls, a promise sansa had been more than willing to give. she couldn't have gone beyond the walls anyway. the gates were watched day and night by janos slynt's gold cloaks, and lannister house guards were always about as well. besides, even if she could leave the castle, where would she go? it was enough that she could walk in the yard, pick flowers in myrcella's garden, and visit the sept to pray for her father. sometimes she prayed in the godswood as well, since the starks kept the old gods. this was the first court session of joffrey's reign, so sansa looked about nervously. a line of lannister house guards stood beneath the western windows, a line of gold-cloaked city watchmen beneath the east. of smallfolk and commoners, she saw no sign, but under the gallery a cluster of lords great and small milled restlessly. there were no more than twenty, where a hundred had been accustomed to wait upon king robert. sansa slipped in among them, murmuring greetings as she worked her way toward the front. she recognized black-skinned jalabhar xho, gloomy ser aron santagar, the redwyne twins horror and slobber... only none of them seemed to recognize her. or if they did, they shied away as if she had the grey plague. sickly lord gyles covered his face at her approach and feigned a fit of coughing, and when funny drunken ser dontos started to hail her, ser balon swann whispered in his ear and he turned away. and so many others were missing. where had the rest of them gone? sansa wondered. vainly, she searched for friendly faces. not one of them would meet her eyes. it was as if she had become a ghost, dead before her time. grand maester pycelle was seated alone at the council table, seemingly asleep, his hands clasped together atop his beard. she saw lord varys hurry into the hall, his feet making no sound. a moment later lord baelish entered through the tall doors in the rear, smiling. he chatted amiably with ser balon and ser dontos as he made his way to the front. butterflies fluttered nervously in sansa' s stomach. i shouldn't be afraid, she told herself. i have nothing to be afraid of, it will all come out well, jo ff loves me and the queen does too, she said so. a herald's voice rang out. all hail his grace, joffrey of the houses baratheon and lannister, the first of his name, king of the andals, the rhoynar, and the first men, and lord of the seven kingdoms. all hail his lady mother, cersei of house lannister, queen regent, light of the west, and protector of the realm. ser barristan selmy, resplendent in white plate, led them in. ser arys oakheart escorted the queen, while ser boros blount walked beside joffrey, so six of the kingsguard were now in the hall, all the white swords save jaime lannister alone. her prince-no, her king now!-took the steps of the iron throne two at a time, while his mother was seated with the council. jo ff wore plush black velvets slashed with crimson, a shimmering cloth-of-gold cape with a high collar, and on his head a golden crown crusted with rubies and black diamonds. when joffrey turned to look out over the hall, his eye caught sansa's. he smiled, seated himself, and spoke. it is a king's duty to punish the disloyal and reward those who are true. grand maester pycelle, i command you to read my decrees. pycelle pushed himself to his feet. he was clad in a magnificent robe of thick red velvet, with an ermine collar and shiny gold fastenings. from a drooping sleeve, heavy with gilded scrollwork, he drew a parchment, unrolled it, and began to read a long list of names, commanding each in the name of king and council to present themselves and swear their fealty to joffrey. failing that, they would be adjudged traitors, their lands and titles forfeit to the throne. the names he read made sansa hold her breath. lord stannis baratheon, his lady wife, his daughter. lord renly baratheon. both lord royces and their sons. ser loras tyrell. lord mace tyre 11, his brothers, uncles, sons. the red priest, thoros of myr. lord beric dondarrion. lady lysa arryn and her son, the little lord robert. lord hoster tully, his brother ser brynden, his son ser edmure. lord jason mallister. lord bryce caron of the marches. lord tytos blackwood. lord walder frey and his heir ser stevron. lord karyl vance. lord jonos bracken. lady sheila whent. doran martell, prince of dome, and all his sons. so many, she thought as pycelle read on and on, it will take a whole flock of ravens to send out these commands. and at the end, near last, came the names sansa had been dreading. lady catelyn stark. robb stark. brandon stark, rickon stark, arya stark. sansa stifled a gasp. arya. they wanted arya to present herself and swear an oath... it must mean her sister had fled on the galley, she must be safe at winterfell by now... grand maester pycelle rolled up the list, tucked it up his left sleeve, and pulled another parchment from his right. he cleared his throat and resumed. in the place of the traitor eddard stark, it is the wish of his grace that tywin lannister, lord of casterly rock and warden of the west, take up the office of hand of the king, to speak with his voice, lead his armies against his enemies, and carry out his royal will. so the king has decreed. the small council consents. in the place of the traitor stannis baratheon, it is the wish of his grace that his lady mother, the queen regent cersei lannister, who has ever been his staunchest support, be seated upon his small council, that she may help him rule wisely and with justice. so the king has decreed. the small council consents. sansa heard a soft murmuring from the lords around her, but it was quickly stilled. pycelle continued. it is also the wish of his grace that his loyal servant, janos slynt, commander of the city watch of king's landing, be at once raised to the rank of lord and granted the ancient seat of harrenhal with all its attendant lands and incomes, and that his sons and grandsons shall hold these honors after him until the end of time. it is moreover his command that lord slynt be seated immediately upon his small council, to assist in the governance of the realm. so the king has decreed. the small council consents. sansa glimpsed motion from the corner of her eye as janos slynt made his entrance. this time the muttering was louder and angrier. proud lords whose houses went back thousands of years made way reluctantly for the balding, frog-faced commoner as he marched past. golden scales had been sewn onto the black velvet of his doublet and rang together softly with each step. his cloak was checked black- and-go id satin. two ugly boys who must have been his sons went before him, struggling with the weight of a heavy metal shield as tall as they were. for his sigil he had taken a bloody spear, gold on a night-black field. the sight of it raised goose prickles up and down sansa's arms. as lord slynt took his place, grand maester pycelle resumed. lastly, in these times of treason and turmoil, with our beloved robert so lately dead, it is the view of the council that the life and safety of king joffrey is of paramount importance he looked to the queen. cersei stood. ser barristan selmy, stand forth. ser barristan had been standing at the foot of the iron throne, as still as any statue, but now he went to one knee and bowed his head. your grace, i am yours to command. rise, ser barristan, cersei lannister said. you may remove your helm. my lady? standing, the old knight took off his high white helm, though he did not seem to understand why. you have served the realm long and faithfully, good ser, and every man and woman in the seven kingdoms owes you thanks. yet now i fear your service is at an end. it is the wish of king and council that you lay down your heavy burden. my... burden? i fear i... i do not the new-made lord, janos slynt, spoke up, his voice heavy and blunt. her grace is trying to tell you that you are relieved as lord commander of the kingsguard. the tall, white-haired knight seemed to shrink as he stood there, scarcely breathing. your grace, he said at last. the kingsguard is a sworn brotherhood. our vows are taken for life. only death may relieve the lord commander of his sacred trust. whose death, ser barristan? the queen's voice was soft as silk, but her words carried the whole length of the hall. yours, or your king's? you let my father die, joffrey said accusingly from atop the iron throne. you're too old to protect anybody. sansa watched as the knight peered up at his new king. she had never seen him look his years before, yet now he did. your grace, he said. i was chosen for the white swords in my twenty-third year. it was all i had ever dreamed, from the moment i first took sword in hand. i gave up all claim to my ancestral keep. the girl i was to wed married my cousin in my place, i had no need of land or sons, my life would be lived for the realm. ser gerold hightower himself heard my vows... to ward the king with all my strength... to give my blood for his... i fought beside the white bull and prince lewyn of dome... beside ser arthur dayne, the sword of the morning. before i served your father, i helped shield king aerys, and his father jaehaerys before him... three kings... and all of them dead, littlefinger pointed out. your time is done, cersei lannister announced. joffrey requires men around him who are young and strong. the council has determined that ser jaime lannister will take your place as the lord commander of sworn brothers of the white swords. the kingslayer, ser barristan said, his voice hard with contempt. the false knight who profaned his blade with the blood of the king he had sworn to defend. have a care for your words, ser, the queen warned. you are speaking of our beloved brother, your king's own blood. lord varys spoke, gentler than the others. we are not unmindful of your service, good ser. lord tywin lannister has generously agreed to grant you a handsome tract of land north of lannisport, beside the sea, with gold and men sufficient to build you a stout keep, and servants to see to your every need. ser barristan looked up sharply. a hall to die in, and men to bury me. i thank you, my lords... but i spit upon your pity. he reached up and undid the clasps that held his cloak in place, and the heavy white garment slithered from his shoulders to fall in a heap on the floor. his helmet dropped with a clang. i am a knight, he told them. he opened the silver fastenings of his breastplate and let that fall as well. i shall die a knight. a naked knight, it would seem, quipped littlefinger. they all laughed then, joffrey on his throne, and the lords standing attendance, janos slynt and queen cersei and sandor clegane and even the other men of the kingsguard, the five who had been his brothers until a moment ago. surely that must have hurt the most, sansa thought. her heart went out to the gallant old man as he stood shamed and red-faced, too angry to speak. finally he drew his sword. sansa heard someone gasp. ser boros and ser meryn moved forward to confront him, but ser barristan froze them in place with a look that dripped contempt. have no fear, sers, your king is safe... no thanks to you. even now, i could cut through the five of you as easy as a dagger cuts cheese. if you would serve under the kingslayer, not a one of you is fit to wear the white. he flung his sword at the foot of the iron throne. here, boy. melt it down and add it to the others, if you like. it will do you more good than the swords in the hands of these five. perhaps lord stannis will chance to sit on it when he takes your throne. he took the long way out, his steps ringing loud against the floor and echoing off the bare stone walls. lords and ladies parted to let him pass. not until the pages had closed the great oak-and- bronze doors behind him did sansa hear sounds again: soft voices, uneasy stirrings, the shuffle of papers from the council table. he called me boy, joffrey said peevishly, sounding younger than his years. he talked about my uncle stannis too. idle talk, said varys the eunuch. without meaning he could be making plots with my uncles. i want him seized and questioned. no one moved. joffrey raised his voice. i said, i want him seized! janos slynt rose from the council table. my gold cloaks will see to it, your grace. good, said king joffrey. lord janos strode from the hall, his ugly sons double-stepping to keep up as they lugged the great metal shield with the arms of house slynt. your grace, little finger reminded the king. if we might resume, the seven are now six. we find ourselves in need of a new sword for your kingsguard. joffrey smiled. tell them, mother. the king and council have determined that no man in the seven kingdoms is more fit to guard and protect his grace than his sworn shield, sandor clegane. how do you like that, dog? king joffrey asked. the hound's scarred face was hard to read. he took a long moment to consider. why not? i have no lands nor wife to forsake, and who'd care if i did? the burned side of his mouth twisted. but i warn you, i'll say no knight's vows. the sworn brothers of the kingsguard have always been knights, ser boros said firmly. until now, the hound said in his deep rasp, and ser boros fell silent. when the king's herald moved forward, sansa realized the moment was almost at hand. she smoothed down the cloth of her skirt nervously. she was dressed in mourning, as a sign of respect for the dead king, but she had taken special care to make herself beautiful. her gown was the ivory silk that the queen had given her, the one arya had ruined, but she'd had them dye it black and you couldn't see the stain at all. she had fretted over her jewelry for hours and finally decided upon the elegant simplicity of a plain silver chain. the herald's voice boomed out. if any man in this hall has other matters to set before his grace, let him speak now or go forth and hold his silence. sansa quailed. now, she told herself, i must do it now. gods give me courage. she took one step, then another. lords and knights stepped aside silently to let her pass, and she felt the weight of their eyes on her. i must be as strong as my lady mother. your grace, she called out in a soft, tremulous voice. the height of the iron throne gave joffrey a better vantage point than anyone else in the hall. he was the first to see her. come forward, my lady, he called out, smiling. his smile emboldened her, made her feel beautiful and strong. he does love me, he does. sansa lifted her head and walked toward him, not too slow and not too fast. she must not let them see how nervous she was. the lady sansa, of house stark, the herald cried. she stopped under the throne, at the spot where ser barristan's white cloak lay puddled on the floor beside his helm and breastplate. do you have some business for king and council, sansa? the queen asked from the council table. i do. she knelt on the cloak, so as not to spoil her gown, and looked up at her prince on his fearsome black throne. as it please your grace, i ask mercy for my father, lord eddard stark, who was the hand of the king. she had practiced the words a hundred times. the queen sighed. sansa, you disappoint me. what did i tell you about traitor's blood? your father has committed grave and terrible crimes, my lady, grand maester pycelle intoned. ah, poor sad thing, sighed varys. she is only a babe, my lords, she does not know what she asks. sansa had eyes only for joffrey. he must listen to me, he must, she thought. the king shifted on his seat, let her speak, he commanded. i want to hear what she says. thank you, your grace. sansa smiled, a shy secret smile, just for him. he was listening. she knew he would. treason is a noxious weed, pycelle declared solemnly. it must be torn up, root and stem and seed, lest new traitors sprout from every roadside. do you deny your father's crime? lord baelish asked. no, my lords. sansa knew better than that. i know he must be punished. all i ask is mercy. i know my lord father must regret what he did. he was king robert's friend and he loved him, you all know he loved him. he never wanted to be hand until the king asked him. they must have lied to him. lord renly or lord stannis or... or somebody, they must have lied, otherwise... king joffrey leaned forward, hands grasping the arms of the throne. broken sword points fanned out between his fingers. he said i wasn't the king. why did he say that? his leg was broken, sansa replied eagerly. it hurt ever so much, maester pycelle was giving him milk of the poppy, and they say that milk of the poppy fills your head with clouds. otherwise he would never have said it. varys said, a child's-faith... such sweet innocence... and yet, they say wisdom oft comes from the mouths of babes. treason is treason, pycelle replied at once. joffrey rocked restlessly on the throne. mother? cersei lannister considered sansa thoughtfully. if lord eddard were to confess his crime, she said at last, we would know he had repented his folly. joffrey pushed himself to his feet. please, sansa thought, please, please, be the king i know you are, good and kind and noble, please. do you have any more to say? he asked her. only... that as you love me, you do me this kindness, my prince, sansa said. king joffrey looked her up and down. your sweet words have moved me, he said gallantly, nodding, as if to say all would be well. i shall do as you ask... but first your father has to confess. he has to confess and say that i'm the king, or there will be no mercy for him. he will, sansa said, heart soaring. oh, i know he will. in the tower room at the heart of maegor's holdfast, sansa gave herself to the darkness. she drew the curtains around her bed, slept, woke weeping, and slept again. when she could not sleep she lay under her blankets shivering with grief. servants came and went, bringing meals, but the sight of food was more than she could bear. the dishes piled up on the table beneath her window, untouched and spoiling, until the servants took them away again. sometimes her sleep was leaden and dreamless, and she woke from it more tired than when she had closed her eyes. yet those were the best times, for when she dreamed, she dreamed of father. waking or sleeping, she saw him, saw the gold cloaks fling him down, saw ser ilyn striding forward, unsheathing ice from the scabbard on his back, saw the moment... the moment when... she had wanted to look away, she had wanted to, her legs had gone out from under her and she had fallen to her knees, yet somehow she could not turn her head, and all the people were screaming and shouting, and her prince had smiled at her, he'd smiled and she'd felt safe, but only for a heartbeat, until he said those words, and her father's legs... that was what she remembered, his legs, the way they'd jerked when ser ilyn... when the sword... perhaps i will die too, she told herself, and the thought did not seem so terrible to her. if she flung herself from the window, she could put an end to her suffering, and in the years to come the singers would write songs of her grief. her body would lie on the stones below, broken and innocent, shaming all those who had betrayed her. sansa went so far as to cross the bedchamber and throw open the shutters... but then her courage left her, and she ran back to her bed, sobbing. the serving girls tried to talk to her when they brought her meals, but she never answered them. once grand maester pycelle came with a box of flasks and bottles, to ask if she was ill. he felt her brow, made her undress, and touched her all over while her bedmaid held her down. when he left he gave her a potion of honeywater and herbs and told her to drink a swallow every night. she drank it all right then and went back to sleep. she dreamt of footsteps on the tower stair, an ominous scraping of leather on stone as a man climbed slowly toward her bedchamber, step by step. all she could do was huddle behind her door and listen, trembling, as he came closer and closer. it was ser ilyn payne, she knew, coming for her with ice in his hand, coming to take her head. there was no place to run, no place to hide, no way to bar the door. finally the footsteps stopped and she knew he was just outside, standing there silent with his dead eyes and his long pocked face. that was when she realized she was naked. she crouched down, trying to cover herself with her hands, as her door began to swing open, creaking, the point of the greatsword poking through... she woke murmuring, please, please, i'll be good, i'll be good, please don't, but there was no one to hear. when they finally came for her in truth, sansa never heard their footsteps. it was joffrey who opened her door, not ser ilyn but the boy who had been her prince. she was in bed, curled up tight, her curtains drawn, and she could not have said if it was noon or midnight. the first thing she heard was the slam of the door. then her bed hangings were yanked back, and she threw up a hand against the sudden light and saw them standing over her. you will attend me in court this afternoon, joffrey said. see that you bathe and dress as befits my betrothed. sandor clegane stood at his shoulder in a plain brown doublet and green mantle, his burned face hideous in the morning light. behind them were two knights of the kingsguard in long white satin cloaks. sansa drew her blanket up to her chin to cover herself. no, she whimpered, please... leave me be. if you won't rise and dress yourself, my hound will do it for you, joffrey said. i beg of you, my prince. i'm king now. dog, get her out of bed. sandor clegane scooped her up around the waist and lifted her off the featherbed as she struggled feebly. her blanket fell to the floor. underneath she had only a thin bedgown to cover her nakedness. do as you're bid, child, clegane said. dress. he pushed her toward her wardrobe, almost gently. sansa backed away from them. i did as the queen asked, i wrote the letters, i wrote what she told me. you promised you'd be merciful. please, let me go home. i won't do any treason, i'll be good, i swear it, i don't have traitor's blood, i don't. i only want to go home. remembering her courtesies, she lowered her head. as it please you, she finished weakly. it does not please me, joffrey said. mother says i'm still to marry you, so you'll stay here, and you'll obey. i don't want to marry you, sansa wailed. you chopped off my father's head! he was a traitor. i never promised to spare him, only that i'd be merciful, and i was. if he hadn't been your father, i would have had him torn or flayed, but i gave him a clean death. sansa stared at him, seeing him for the first time. he was wearing a padded crimson doublet patterned with lions and a cloth-of-gold cape with a high collar that framed his face. she wondered how she could ever have thought him handsome. his lips were as soft and red as the worms you found after a rain, and his eyes were vain and cruel. i hate you, she whispered. king joffrey's face hardened. my mother tells me that it isn't fitting that a king should strike his wife. ser meryn. the knight was on her before she could think, yanking back her hand as she tried to shield her face and backhanding her across the ear with a gloved fist. sansa did not remember failing, yet the next she knew she was sprawled on one knee amongst the rushes. her head was ringing. ser meryn trant stood over her, with blood on the knuckles of his white silk glove. will you obey now, or shall i have him chastise you again? sansa's ear felt numb. she touched it, and her fingertips came away wet and red. i... as... as you command, my lord. your grace, joffrey corrected her. i shall look for you in court. he turned and left. ser meryn and ser arys followed him out, but sandor clegane lingered long enough to yank her roughly to her feet. save yourself some pain, girl, and give him what he wants. what... what does he want? please, tell me. he wants you to smile and smell sweet and be his lady love, the hound rasped. he wants to hear you recite all your pretty little words the way the septa taught you. he wants you to love him... and fear him. after he was gone, sansa sank back onto the rushes, staring at the wall until two of her bedmaids crept timidly into the chamber. i will need hot water for my bath, please, she told them, and perfume, and some powder to hide this bruise. the right side of her face was swollen and beginning to ache, but she knew joffrey would want her to be beautiful. the hot water made her think of winterfell, and she took strength from that. she had not washed since the day her father died, and she was startled at how filthy the water became. her maids sluiced the blood off her face, scrubbed the dirt from her back, washed her hair and brushed it out until it sprang back in thick auburn curls. sansa did not speak to them, except to give them commands; they were lannister servants, not her own, and she did not trust them. when the time came to dress, she chose the green silk gown that she had worn to the tourney. she recalled how gallant joff had been to her that night at the feast. perhaps it would make him remember as well, and treat her more gently. she drank a glass of buttermilk and nibbled at some sweet biscuits as she waited, to settle her stomach. it was midday when ser meryn returned. he had donned his white armor; a shirt of enameled scales chased with gold, a tall helm with a golden sunburst crest, greaves and gorget and gauntlet and boots of gleaming plate, a heavy wool cloak clasped with a golden lion. his visor had been removed from his helm, to better show his dour face; pouchy bags under his eyes, a wide sour mouth, rusty hair spotted with grey. my lady, he said, bowing, as if he had not beaten her bloody only three hours past. his grace has instructed me to escort you to the throne room. did he instruct you to hit me if i refused to come? are you refusing to come, my lady? the look he gave her was without expression. he did not so much as glance at the bruise he had left her. he did not hate her, sansa realized; neither did he love her. he felt nothing for her at all. she was only a... a thing to him. no, she said, rising. she wanted to rage, to hurt him as he'd hurt her, to warn him that when she was queen she would have him exiled if he ever dared strike her again... but she remembered what the hound had told her, so all she said was, i shall do whatever his grace commands. as i do, he replied. yes... but you are no true knight, ser meryn. sandor clegane would have laughed at that, sansa knew. other men might have cursed her, warned her to keep silent, even begged for her forgiveness. ser meryn trant did none of these. ser meryn trant simply did not care. the balcony was deserted save for sansa. she stood with her head bowed, fighting to hold back her tears, while below joffrey sat on his iron throne and dispensed what it pleased him to call justice. nine cases out often seemed to bore him; those he allowed his council to handle, squirming restlessly while lord baelish, grand maester pycelle, or queen cersei resolved the matter. when he did choose to make a ruling, though, not even his queen mother could sway him. a thief was brought before him and he had ser ilyn chop his hand off, right there in court. two knights came to him with a dispute about some land, and he decreed that they should duel for it on the morrow. to the death, he added. a woman fell to her knees to plead for the head of a man executed as a traitor. she had loved him, she said, and she wanted to see him decently buried. if you loved a traitor, you must be a traitor too, joffrey said. two gold cloaks dragged her off to the dungeons. frog-faced lord slynt sat at the end of the council table wearing a black velvet doublet and a shiny cloth-of-gold cape, nodding with approval every time the king pronounced a sentence. sansa stared hard at his ugly face, remembering how he had thrown down her father for ser ilyn to behead, wishing she could hurt him, wishing that some hero would throw him down and cut off his head. but a voice inside her whispered, there are no heroes, and she remembered what lord petyr had said to her, here in this very hall. life is not a song, sweetling, he'd told her. you may learn that one day to your sorrow. in life, the monsters win, she told herself, and now it was the hound's voice she heard, a cold rasp, metal on stone. save yourself some pain, girl, and give him what he wants. the last case was a plump tavern singer, accused of making a song that ridiculed the late king robert. jo ff commanded them to fetch his woodharp and ordered him to perform the song for the court. the singer wept and swore he would never sing that song again, but the king insisted. it was sort of a funny song, all about robert fighting with a pig. the pig was the boar who'd killed him, sansa knew, but in some verses it almost sounded as if he were singing about the queen. when the song was done, joffrey announced that he'd decided to be merciful. the singer could keep either his fingers or his tongue. he would have a day to make his choice. janos slynt nodded. that was the final business of the afternoon, sansa saw with relief, but her ordeal was not yet done. when the herald's voice dismissed the court, she fled the balcony, only to find joffrey waiting for her at the base of the curving stairs. the hound was with him, and ser meryn as well. the young king examined her critically, top to bottom. you look much better than you did. thank you, your grace, sansa said. hollow words, but they made him nod and smile. walk with me, joffrey commanded, offering her his arm. she had no choice but to take it. the touch of his hand would have thrilled her once; now it made her flesh crawl. my name day will be here soon, joffrey said as they slipped out the rear of the throne room. there will be a great feast, and gifts. what are you going to give me? i... i had not thought, my lord. your grace, he said sharply. you truly are a stupid girl, aren't you? my mother says so. she does? after all that had happened, his words should have lost their power to hurt her, yet somehow they had not. the queen had always been so kind to her. oh, yes. she worries about our children, whether they'll be stupid like you, but i told her not to trouble herself. the king gestured, and ser meryn opened a door for them. thank you, your grace, she murmured. the hound was right, she thought, i am only a little bird, repeating the words they taught me. the sun had fallen below the western wall, and the stones of the red keep glowed dark as blood. i'll get you with child as soon as you're able, joffrey said as he escorted her across the practice yard. if the first one is stupid, i'll chop off your head and find a smarter wife. when do you think you'll be able to have children? sansa could not look at him, he shamed her so. septa mordane says most... most highborn girls have their flowering at twelve or thirteen. joffrey nodded. this way. he led her into the gatehouse, to the base of the steps that led up to the battlements. sansa jerked back away from him, trembling. suddenly she knew where they were going. no, she said, her voice a frightened gasp. please, no, don't make me, i beg you... joffrey pressed his lips together. i want to show you what happens to traitors. sansa shook her head wildly. i won't. i won't. i can have ser meryn drag you up, he said. you won't like that. you had better do what i say. joffrey reached for her, and sansa cringed away from him, backing into the hound. do it, girl, sandor clegane told her, pushing her back toward the king. his mouth twitched on the burned side of his face and sansa could almost hear the rest of it. he'll have you up there no matter what, so give him what he wants. she forced herself to take king joffrey's hand. the climb was something out of a nightmare; every step was a struggle, as if she were pulling her feet out of ankle-deep mud, and there were more steps than she would have believed, a thousand thousand steps, and horror waiting on the ramparts. from the high battlements of the gatehouse, the whole world spread out below them. sansa could see the great sept of baelor on visenya's hill, where her father had died. at the other end of the street of the sisters stood the fire-blackened ruins of the dragonpit. to the west, the swollen red sun was half-hidden behind the gate of the gods. the salt sea was at her back, and to the south was the fish market and the docks and the swirling torrent of the blackwater rush. and to the north... she turned that way, and saw only the city, streets and alleys and hills and bottoms and more streets and more alleys and the stone of distant walls. yet she knew that beyond them was open country, farms and fields and forests, and beyond that, north and north and north again, stood winterfell. what are you looking at? joffrey said. this is what i wanted you to see, right here. a thick stone parapet protected the outer edge of the rampart, reaching as high as sansa's chin, with crenellations cut into it every five feet for archers. the heads were mounted between the crenels, along the top of the wall, impaled on iron spikes so they faced out over the city. sansa had noted them the moment she'd stepped out onto the wallwalk, but the river and the bustling streets and the setting sun were ever so much prettier. he can make me look at the heads, she told herself, but he can't make me see them. this one is your father, he said. this one here. dog, turn it around so she can see him. sandor clegane took the head by the hair and turned it. the severed head had been dipped in tar to preserve it longer. sansa looked at it calmly, not seeing it at all. it did not really look like lord eddard, she thought; it did not even look real how long do i have to look? joffrey seemed disappointed. do you want to see the rest? there was a long row of them. if it please your grace. joffrey marched her down the wallwalk, past a dozen more heads and two empty spikes. i'm saving those for my uncle stannis and my uncle renly, he explained. the other heads had been dead and mounted much longer than her father. despite the tar, most were long past being recognizable. the king pointed to one and said, that's your septa there, but sansa could not even have told that it was a woman. the jaw had rotted off her face, and birds had eaten one ear and most of a cheek. sansa had wondered what had happened to septa mordane, although she supposed she had known all along. why did you kill her? she asked. she was godsworn... she was a traitor. joffrey looked pouty; somehow she was upsetting him. you haven't said what you mean to give me for my name day. maybe i should give you something instead, would you like that? if it please you, my lord, sansa said. when he smiled, she knew he was mocking her. your brother is a traitor too, you know. he turned septa mordane's head back around. i remember your brother from winterfell. my dog called him the lord of the wooden sword. didn't you, dog? did i? the hound replied. i don't recall. joffrey gave a petulant shrug. your brother defeated my uncle jaime. my mother says it was treachery and deceit. she wept when she heard. women are all weak, even her, though she pretends she isn't. she says we need to stay in king's landing in case my other uncles attack, but i don't care. after my name day feast, i'm going to raise a host and kill your brother myself. that's what i'll give you, lady sansa. your brother's head. a kind of madness took over her then, and she heard herself say, maybe my brother will give me your head. joffrey scowled. you must never mock me like that. a true wife does not mock her lord. ser meryn, teach her. this time the knight grasped her beneath the jaw and held her head still as he struck her. he hit her twice, left to right, and harder, right to left. her lip split and blood ran down her chin, to mingle with the salt of her tears. you shouldn't be crying all the time, joffrey told her. you're more pretty when you smile and laugh. sansa made herself smile, afraid that he would have ser meryn hit her again if she did not, but it was no good, the king still shook his head. wipe off the blood, you're all messy. the outer parapet came up to her chin, but along the inner edge of the walk was nothing, nothing but a long plunge to the bailey seventy or eighty feet below. all it would take was a shove, she told herself. he was standing right there, right there, smirking at her with those fat wormlips. you could do it, she told herself. you could. do it right now. it wouldn't even matter if she went over with him. it wouldn't matter at all. here, girl. sandor clegane knelt before her, between her and joffrey. with a delicacy surprising in such a big man, he dabbed at the blood welling from her broken lip. the moment was gone. sansa lowered her eyes. thank you, she said when he was done. she was a good girl, and always remembered her courtesies. 