somewhere in the great stone maze of winterfell, a wolf howled. the sound hung over the castle like a flag of mourning. tyrion lannister looked up from his books and shivered, though the library was snug and warm. something about the howling of a wolf took a man right out of his here and now and left him in a dark forest of the mind, running naked before the pack. when the direwo if howled again, tyrion shut the heavy leatherbound cover on the book he was reading, a hundred year-old discourse on the changing of the seasons by a long-dead maester. he covered a yawn with the back of his hand. his reading lamp was flickering, its oil all but gone, as dawn light leaked through the high windows. he had been at it all night, but that was nothing new. tyrion lannister was not much a one for sleeping. his legs were stiff and sore as he eased down off the bench. he massaged some life back into them and limped heavily to the table where the septon was snoring softly, his head pillowed on an open book in front of him. tyrion glanced at the title. a life of the grand maester aethelmure, no wonder. chayle, he said softly. the young man jerked up, blinking, confused, the crystal of his order swinging wildly on its silver chain. i'm off to break my fast. see that you return the books to the shelves. be gentle with the valyrian scrolls, the parchment is very dry. ayrmidon's engines of war is quite rare, and yours is the only complete copy i've ever seen. chayle gaped at him, still half asleep. patiently, tyrion repeated his instructions, then clapped the septon on the shoulder and left him to his tasks. outside, tyrion swallowed a lungful of the cold morning air and began his laborious descent of the steep stone steps that corkscrewed around the exterior of the library tower. it was slow going; the steps were cut high and narrow, while his legs were short and twisted. the rising sun had not yet cleared the walls of winterfell, but the men were already hard at it in the yard below. sandor clegane's rasping voice drifted up to him. the boy is a long time dying. i wish he would be quicker about it. tyrion glanced down and saw the hound standing with young joffrey as squires swarmed around them. at least he dies quietly, the prince replied. it's the wolf that makes the noise. i could scarce sleep last night. clegane cast a long shadow across the hard-packed earth as his squire lowered the black helm over his head. i could silence the creature, if it please you, he said through his open visor. his boy placed a longsword in his hand. he tested the weight of it, slicing at the cold morning air. behind him, the yard rang to the clangor of steel on steel. the notion seemed to delight the prince. send a dog to kill a dog! he exclaimed. winterfell is so infested with wolves, the starks would never miss one. tyrion hopped off the last step onto the yard. i beg to differ, nephew, he said. the starks can count past six. unlike some princes i might name. joffrey had the grace at least to blush. a voice from nowhere, sandor said. he peered through his helm, looking this way and that. spirits of the air! the prince laughed, as he always laughed when his bodyguard did this mummer's farce. tyrion was used to it. down here. the tall man peered down at the ground, and pretended to notice him. the little lord tyrion, he said. my pardons. i did not see you standing there. i am in no mood for your insolence today. tyrion turned to his nephew. joffrey, it is past time you called on lord eddard and his lady, to offer them your comfort. joffrey looked as petulant as only a boy prince can look. what good will my comfort do them? none, tyrion said. yet it is expected of you. your absence has been noted. the stark boy is nothing to me, joffrey said. i cannot abide the wailing of women. tyrion lannister reached up and slapped his nephew hard across the face. the boy's cheek began to redden. one word, tyrion said, and i will hit you again. i'm going to tell mother! joffrey exclaimed. tyrion hit him again. now both cheeks flamed. you tell your mother, tyrion told him. but first you get yourself to lord and lady stark, and you fall to your knees in front of them, and you tell them how very sorry you are, and that you are at their service if there is the slightest thing you can do for them or theirs in this desperate hour, and that all your prayers go with them. do you understand? do you? the boy looked as though he was going to cry. instead, he managed a weak nod. then he turned and fled headlong from the yard, holding his cheek. tyrion watched him run. a shadow fell across his face. he turned to find clegane looming overhead like a cliff. his soot-dark armor seemed to blot out the sun. he had lowered the visor on his helm. it was fashioned in the likeness of a snarling black hound, fearsome to behold, but tyrion had always thought it a great improvement over clegane's hideously burned face. the prince will remember that, little lord, the hound warned him. the helm turned his laugh into a hollow rumble. i pray he does, tyrion lannister replied. if he forgets, be a good dog and remind him. he glanced around the courtyard. do you know where i might find my brother? breaking fast with the queen. ah, tyrion said. he gave sandor clegane a perfunctory nod and walked away as briskly as his stunted legs would carry him, whistling. he pitied the first knight to try the hound today. the man did have a temper. a cold, cheerless meal had been laid out in the morning room of the guest house. jaime sat at table with cersei and the children, talking in low, hushed voices. is robert still abed? tyrion asked as he seated himself, uninvited, at the table. his sister peered at him with the same expression of faint distaste she had worn since the day he was born. the king has not slept at all, she told him. he is with lord eddard. he has taken their sorrow deeply to heart. he has a large heart, our robert, jaime said with a lazy smile. there was very little that jaime took seriously. tyrion knew that about his brother, and forgave it. during all the terrible long years of his childhood, only jaime had ever shown him the smallest measure of affection or respect, and for that tyrion was willing to forgive him most anything. a servant approached. bread, tyrion told him, and two of those little fish, and a mug of that good dark beer to wash them down. oh, and some bacon. burn it until it turns black. the man bowed and moved off. tyrion turned back to his siblings. twins, male and female. they looked very much the part this morning. both had chosen a deep green that matched their eyes. their blond curls were all a fashionable tumble, and gold ornaments shone at wrists and fingers and throats. tyrion wondered what it would be like to have a twin, and decided that he would rather not know. bad enough to face himself in a looking glass every day. another him was a thought too dreadful to contemplate. prince tommen spoke up. do you have news of bran, uncle? i stopped by the sickroom last night, tyrion announced. there was no change. the maester thought that a hopeful sign. i don't want brandon to die, tommen said timorously. he was a sweet boy. not like his brother, but then jaime and tyrion were somewhat less than peas in a pod themselves. lord eddard had a brother named brandon as well, jaime mused. one of the hostages murdered by targaryen. it seems to be an unlucky name. oh, not so unlucky as all that, surely, tyrion said. the servant brought his plate. he ripped off a chunk of black bread. cersei was studying him warily. what do you mean? tyrion gave her a crooked smile. why, only that tommen may get his wish. the maester thinks the boy may yet live. he took a sip of beer. myrcella gave a happy gasp, and tommen smiled nervously, but it was not the children tyrion was watching. the glance that passed between jaime and cersei lasted no more than a second, but he did not miss it. then his sister dropped her gaze to the table. that is no mercy. these northern gods are cruel to let the child linger in such pain. what were the maester's words? jaime asked. the bacon crunched when he bit into it. tyrion chewed thoughtfully for a moment and said, he thinks that if the boy were going to die, he would have done so already. it has been four days with no change. will bran get better, uncle? little myrcella asked. she had all of her mother's beauty, and none of her nature. his back is broken, little one, tyrion told her. the fall shattered his legs as well. they keep him alive with honey and water, or he would starve to death. perhaps, if he wakes, he will be able to eat real food, but he will never walk again. if he wakes, cersei repeated. is that likely? the gods alone know, tyrion told her. the maester only hopes. he chewed some more bread. i would swear that wolf of his is keeping the boy alive. the creature is outside his window day and night, howling. every time they chase it away, it returns. the maester said they closed the window once, to shut out the noise, and bran seemed to weaken. when they opened it again, his heart beat stronger. the queen shuddered. there is something unnatural about those animals, she said. they are dangerous. i will not have any of them coming south with us. jaime said, you'll have a hard time stopping them, sister. they follow those girls everywhere. tyrion started on his fish. are you leaving soon, then? not near soon enough, cersei said. then she frowned. are we leaving? she echoed. what about you? gods, don't tell me you are staying here? tyrion shrugged. benjen stark is returning to the night's watch with his brother's bastard. i have a mind to go with them and see this wall we have all heard so much of. jaime smiled. i hope you're not thinking of taking the black on us, sweet brother. tyrion laughed. what, me, celibate? the whores would go begging from dome to casterly rock. no, i just want to stand on top of the wall and piss off the edge of the world. cersei stood abruptly. the children don't need to hear this filth. tommen, myrcella, come. she strode briskly from the morning room, her train and her pups trailing behind her. jaime lannister regarded his brother thoughtfully with those cool green eyes. stark will never consent to leave winterfell with his son lingering in the shadow of death. he will if robert commands it, tyrion said. and robert will command it. there is nothing lord eddard can do for the boy in any case. he could end his torment, jaime said. i would, if it were my son. it would be a mercy. i advise against putting that suggestion to lord eddard, sweet brother, tyrion said. he would not take it kindly. even if the boy does live, he will be a cripple. worse than a cripple. a grotesque. give me a good clean death. tyrion replied with a shrug that accentuated the twist of his shoulders. speaking for the grotesques, he said, i beg to differ. death is so terribly final, while life is full of possibilities. jaime smiled. you are a perverse little imp, aren't you? oh, yes, tyrion admitted. i hope the boy does wake. i would be most interested to hear what he might have to say. his brother's smile curdled like sour milk. tyrion, my sweet brother, he said darkly, there are times when you give me cause to wonder whose side you are on. tyrion's mouth was full of bread and fish. he took a swallow of strong black beer to wash it all down, and grinned up wolfishly at jaime, why, jaime, my sweet brother, he said, you wound me. you know how much i love my family. the north went on forever. tyrion lannister knew the maps as well as anyone, but a fortnight on the wild track that passed for the kingsroad up here had brought home the lesson that the map was one thing and the land quite another. they had left winterfell on the same day as the king, amidst all the commotion of the royal departure, riding out to the sound of men shouting and horses snorting, to the rattle of wagons and the groaning of the queen's huge wheelhouse, as a light snow flurried about them. the kingsroad was just beyond the sprawl of castle and town. there the banners and the wagons and the columns of knights and freeriders turned south, taking the tumult with them, while tyrion turned north with benjen stark and his nephew. it had grown colder after that, and far more quiet. west of the road were flint hills, grey and rugged, with tall watchtowers on their stony summits. to the east the land was lower, the ground flattening to a rolling plain that stretched away as far as the eye could see. stone bridges spanned swift, narrow rivers, while small farms spread in rings around holdfasts walled in wood and stone. the road was well trafficked, and at night for their comfort there were rude inns to be found. three days ride from winterfell, however, the farmland gave way to dense wood, and the kingsroad grew lonely. the flint hills rose higher and wilder with each passing mile, until by the fifth day they had turned into mountains, cold blue-grey giants with jagged promontories and snow on their shoulders. when the wind blew from the north, long plumes of ice crystals flew from the high peaks like banners. with the mountains a wall to the west, the road veered north by northeast through the wood, a forest of oak and evergreen and black brier that seemed older and darker than any tyrion had ever seen. the wolfswood, benjen stark called it, and indeed their nights came alive with the howls of distant packs, and some not so distant. jon snow's albino direwo if pricked up his ears at the nightly howling, but never raised his own voice in reply. there was something very unsettling about that animal, tyrion thought. there were eight in the party by then, not counting the wolf. tyrion traveled with two of his own men, as befit a lannister. benjen stark had only his bastard nephew and some fresh mounts for the night's watch, but at the edge of the wolfswood they stayed a night behind the wooden walls of a forest holdfast, and there joined up with another of the black brothers, one yoren. yoren was stooped and sinister, his features hidden behind a beard as black as his clothing, but he seemed as tough as an old root and as hard as stone. with him were a pair of ragged peasant boys from the fingers. rapers, yoren said with a cold look at his charges. tyrion understood. life on the wall was said to be hard, but no doubt it was preferable to castration. five men, three boys, a direwolf, twenty horses, and a cage of ravens given over to benjen stark by maester luwin. no doubt they made a curious fellowship for the kingsroad, or any road. tyrion noticed jon snow watching yoren and his sullen companions, with an odd cast to his face that looked uncomfortably like dismay. yoren had a twisted shoulder and a sour smell, his hair and beard were matted and greasy and full of lice, his clothing old, patched, and seldom washed. his two young recruits smelled even worse, and seemed as stupid as they were cruel. no doubt the boy had made the mistake of thinking that the night's watch was made up of men like his uncle. if so, yoren and his companions were a rude awakening. tyrion felt sorry for the boy. he had chosen a hard life... or perhaps he should say that a hard life had been chosen for him. he had rather less sympathy for the uncle. benjen stark seemed to share his brother's distaste for lannisters, and he had not been pleased when tyrion had told him of his intentions. i warn you, lannister, you'll find no inns at the wall, he had said, looking down on him. no doubt you'll find some place to put me, tyrion had replied. as you might have noticed, i'm small. one did not say no to the queen's brother, of course, so that had settled the matter, but stark had not been happy. you will not like the ride, i promise you that, he'd said curtly, and since the moment they set out, he had done all he could to live up to that promise. by the end of the first week, tyrion's thighs were raw from hard riding, his legs were cramping badly, and he was chilled to the bone. he did not complain. he was damned if he would give benjen stark that satisfaction. he took a small revenge in the matter of his riding fur, a tattered bearskin, old and musty- smelling. stark had offered it to him in an excess of night's watch gallantry, no doubt expecting him to graciously decline. tyrion had accepted with a smile. he had brought his warmest clothing with him when they rode out of winterfell, and soon discovered that it was nowhere near warm enough. it was cold up here, and growing colder. the nights were well below freezing now, and when the wind blew it was like a knife cutting right through his warmest woolens. by now stark was no doubt regretting his chivalrous impulse. perhaps he had learned a lesson. the lannisters never declined, graciously or otherwise. the lannisters took what was offered. farms and holdfasts grew scarcer and smaller as they pressed northward, ever deeper into the darkness of the wolfswood, until finally there were no more roofs to shelter under, and they were thrown back on their own resources. tyrion was never much use in making a camp or breaking one. too small, too hobbled, too in- the-way. so while stark and yoren and the other men erected rude shelters, tended the horses, and built a fire, it became his custom to take his fur and a wineskin and go off by himself to read. on the eighteenth night of their journey, the wine was a rare sweet amber from the summer isles that he had brought all the way north from casterly rock, and the book a rumination on the history and properties of dragons. with lord eddard stark's permission, tyrion had borrowed a few rare volumes from the winterfell library and packed them for the ride north. he found a comfortable spot just beyond the noise of the camp, beside a swift-running stream with waters clear and cold as ice. a grotesquely ancient oak provided shelter from the biting wind. tyrion curled up in his fur with his back against the trunk, took a sip of the wine, and began to read about the properties of dragonbone. dragonbone is black because of its high iron content, the book told him. it is strong as steel, yet lighter and far more flexible, and of course utterly impervious to fire. dragonbone bows are greatly prized by the dothraki, and small wonder. an archer so armed can outrange any wooden bow. tyrion had a morbid fascination with dragons. when he had first come to king's landing for his sister's wedding to robert baratheon, he had made it a point to seek out the dragon skulls that had hung on the walls of targaryen's throne room. king robert had replaced them with banners and tapestries, but tyrion had persisted until he found the skulls in the dank cellar where they had been stored. he had expected to find them impressive, perhaps even frightening. he had not thought to find them beautiful. yet they were. as black as onyx, polished smooth, so the bone seemed to shimmer in the light of his torch. they liked the fire, he sensed. he'd thrust the torch into the mouth of one of the larger skulls and made the shadows leap and dance on the wall behind him. the teeth were long, curving knives of black diamond. the flame of the torch was nothing to them; they had bathed in the heat of far greater fires. when he had moved away, tyrion could have sworn that the beast's empty eye sockets had watched him go. there were nineteen skulls. the oldest was more than three thousand years old; the youngest a mere century and a half. the most recent were also the smallest; a matched pair no bigger than mastiffs skulls, and oddly misshapen, all that remained of the last two hatchlings born on dragonstone. they were the last of the targaryen dragons, perhaps the last dragons anywhere, and they had not lived very long. from there the skulls ranged upward in size to the three great monsters of song and story, the dragons that aegon targaryen and his sisters had unleashed on the seven kingdoms of old. the singers had given them the names of gods: balerion, meraxes, vhaghar. tyrion had stood between their gaping jaws, wordless and awed. you could have ridden a horse down vhaghar's gullet, although you would not have ridden it out again. meraxes was even bigger. and the greatest of them, balerion, the black dread, could have swallowed an aurochs whole, or even one of the hairy mammoths said to roam the cold wastes beyond the port of ibben. tyrion stood in that dank cellar for a long time, staring at balerion's huge, empty-eyed skull until his torch burned low, trying to grasp the size of the living animal, to imagine how it must have looked when it spread its great black wings and swept across the skies, breathing fire. his own remote ancestor, king loren of the rock, had tried to stand against the fire when he joined with king mern of the reach to oppose the targaryen conquest. that was close on three hundred years ago, when the seven kingdoms were kingdoms, and not mere provinces of a greater realm. between them, the two kings had six hundred banners flying, five thousand mounted knights, and ten times as many freeriders and men-at-arms. aegon dragonlord had perhaps a fifth that number, the chroniclers said, and most of those were conscripts from the ranks of the last king he had slain, their loyalties uncertain. the hosts met on the broad plains of the reach, amidst golden fields of wheat ripe for harvest. when the two kings charged, the targaryen army shivered and shattered and began to run. for a few moments, the chroniclers wrote, the conquest was at an end... but only for those few moments, before aegon targaryen and his sisters joined the battle. it was the only time that vhaghar, meraxes, and balerion were all unleashed at once. the singers called it the field of fire. near four thousand men had burned that day, among them king mern of the reach. king loren had escaped, and lived long enough to surrender, pledge his fealty to the targaryens, and beget a son, for which tyrion was duly grateful. why do you read so much? tyrion looked up at the sound of the voice. jon snow was standing a few feet away, regarding him curiously. he closed the book on a finger and said, look at me and tell me what you see. the boy looked at him suspiciously. is this some kind of trick? i see you. tyrion lannister. tyrion sighed. you are remarkably polite for a bastard, snow. what you see is a dwarf. you are what, twelve? fourteen, the boy said. fourteen, and you're taller than i will ever be. my legs are short and twisted, and i walk with difficulty. i require a special saddle to keep from falling off my horse. a saddle of my own design, you may be interested to know. it was either that or ride a pony. my arms are strong enough, but again, too short. i will never make a swordsman. had i been born a peasant, they might have left me out to die, or sold me to some slaver's grotesquerie. alas, i was born a lannister of casterly rock, and the grotesqueries are all the poorer. things are expected of me. my father was the hand of the king for twenty years. my brother later killed that very same king, as it turns out, but life is full of these little ironies. my sister married the new king and my repulsive nephew will be king after him. i must do my part for the honor of my house, wouldn't you agree? yet how? well, my legs may be too small for my body, but my head is too large, although i prefer to think it is just large enough for my mind. i have a realistic grasp of my own strengths and weaknesses. my mind is my weapon. my brother has his sword, king robert has his warhammer, and i have my mind... and a mind needs books as a sword needs a whetstone, if it is to keep its edge. tyrion tapped the leather cover of the book. that's why i read so much, jon snow. the boy absorbed that all in silence. he had the stark face if not the name: long, solemn, guarded, a face that gave nothing away. whoever his mother had been, she had left little of herself in her son. what are you reading about? he asked. dragons, tyrion told him. what good is that? there are no more dragons, the boy said with the easy certainty of youth. so they say, tyrion replied. sad, isn't it? when i was your age, used to dream of having a dragon of my own. you did? the boy said suspiciously. perhaps he thought tyrion was making fun of him. oh, yes. even a stunted, twisted, ugly little boy can look down over the world when he's seated on a dragon's back. tyrion pushed the bearskin aside and climbed to his feet. i used to start fires in the bowels of casterly rock and stare at the flames for hours, pretending they were dragonfire. sometimes i'd imagine my father burning. at other times, my sister. jon snow was staring at him, a look equal parts horror and fascination. tyrion guffawed. don't look at me that way, bastard. i know your secret. you've dreamt the same kind of dreams. no, jon snow said, horrified. i wouldn't... no? never? tyrion raised an eyebrow. well, no doubt the starks have been terribly good to you. i'm certain lady stark treats you as if you were one of her own. and your brother robb, he's always been kind, and why not? he gets winterfell and you get the wall. and your father... he must have good reasons for packing you off to the night's watch. stop it, jon snow said, his face dark with anger. the night's watch is a noble calling! tyrion laughed. you're too smart to believe that. the night's watch is a midden heap for all the misfits of the realm. i've seen you looking at yoren and his boys. those are your new brothers, jon snow, how do you like them? sullen peasants, debtors, poachers, rapers, thieves, and bastards like you all wind up on the wall, watching for grumkins and snarks and all the other monsters your wet nurse warned you about. the good part is there are no grumkins or snarks, so it's scarcely dangerous work. the bad part is you freeze your balls off, but since you're not allowed to breed anyway, i don't suppose that matters. stop it! the boy screamed. he took a step forward, his hands coiling into fists, close to tears. suddenly, absurdly, tyrion felt guilty. he took a step forward, intending to give the boy a reassuring pat on the shoulder or mutter some word of apology. he never saw the wolf, where it was or how it came at him. one moment he was walking toward snow and the next he was flat on his back on the hard rocky ground, the book spinning away from him as he fell, the breath going out of him at the sudden impact, his mouth full of dirt and blood and rotting leaves. as he tried to get up, his back spasmed painfully. he must have wrenched it in the fall. he ground his teeth in frustration, grabbed a root, and pulled himself back to a sitting position. help me, he said to the boy, reaching up a hand. and suddenly the wolf was between them. he did not growl. the damned thing never made a sound. he only looked at him with those bright red eyes, and showed him his teeth, and that was more than enough. tyrion sagged back to the ground with a grunt. don't help me, then. i'll sit right here until you leave. jon snow stroked ghost's thick white fur, smiling now. ask me nicely. tyrion lannister felt the anger coiling inside him, and crushed it out with a will. it was not the first time in his life he had been humiliated, and it would not be the last. perhaps he even deserved this. i should be very grateful for your kind assistance, jon, he said mildly. down, ghost, the boy said. the direwolf sat on his haunches. those red eyes never left tyrion. jon came around behind him, slid his hands under his arms, and lifted him easily to his feet. then he picked up the book and handed it back. why did he attack me'? tyrion asked with a sidelong glance at the direwolf. he wiped blood and dirt from his mouth with the back of his hand. maybe he thought you were a grumkin. tyrion glanced at him sharply. then he laughed, a raw snort of amusement that came bursting out through his nose entirely without his permission. oh, gods, he said, choking on his laughter and shaking his head, i suppose i do rather look like a grumkin. what does he do to snarks? you don't want to know. jon picked up the wineskin and handed it to tyrion. tyrion pulled out the stopper, tilted his head, and squeezed a long stream into his mouth. the wine was cool fire as it trickled down his throat and warmed his belly. he held out the skin to jon snow. want some? the boy took the skin and tried a cautious swallow. it's true, isn't it? he said when he was done. what you said about the night's watch. tyrion nodded. jon snow set his mouth in a grim line. if that's what it is, that's what it is. tyrion grinned at him. that's good, bastard. most men would rather deny a hard truth than face it. most men, the boy said. but not you. no, tyrion admitted, not me. i seldom even dream of dragons anymore. there are no dragons. he scooped up the fallen bearskin. come, we had better return to camp before your uncle calls the banners. the walk was short, but the ground was rough underfoot and his legs were cramping badly by the time they got back. jon snow offered a hand to help him over a thick tangle of roots, but tyrion shook him off. he would make his own way, as he had all his life. still, the camp was a welcome sight. the shelters had been thrown up against the tumbledown wall of a long- abandoned holdfast, a shield against the wind. the horses had been fed and a fire had been laid. yoren sat on a stone, skinning a squirrel. the savory smell of stew filled tyrion's nostrils. he dragged himself over to where his man morrec was tending the stewpot. wordlessly, morrec handed him the ladle. tyrion tasted and handed it back. more pepper, he said. benjen stark emerged from the shelter he shared with his nephew. there you are. jon, damn it, don't go off like that by yourself. i thought the others had gotten you. it was the grumkins, tyrion told him, laughing. jon snow smiled. stark shot a baffled look at yoren. the old man grunted, shrugged, and went back to his bloody work. the squirrel gave some body to the stew, and they ate it with black bread and hard cheese that night around their fire. tyrion shared around his skin of wine until even yoren grew mellow. one by one the company drifted off to their shelters and to sleep, all but jon snow, who had drawn the night's first watch. tyrion was the last to retire, as always. as he stepped into the shelter his men had built for him, he paused and looked back at jon snow. the boy stood near the fire, his face still and hard, looking deep into the flames. tyrion lannister smiled sadly and went to bed. are you certain that you must leave us so soon? the lord commander asked him. past certain, lord mormont, tyrion replied. my brother jaime will be wondering what has become of me. he may decide that you have convinced me to take the black. would that i could. mormont picked up a crab claw and cracked it in his fist. old as he was, the lord commander still had the strength of a bear. you're a cunning man, tyrion. we have need of men of your sort on the wall. tyrion grinned. then i shall scour the seven kingdoms for dwarfs and ship them all to you, lord mormont. as they laughed, he sucked the meat from a crab leg and reached for another. the crabs had arrived from eastwatch only this morning, packed in a barrel of snow, and they were succulent. ser alliser thorne was the only man at table who did not so much as crack a smile. lannister mocks us. only you, ser alliser, tyrion said. this time the laughter round the table had a nervous, uncertain quality to it. thome's black eyes fixed on tyrion with loathing. you have a bold tongue for someone who is less than half a man. perhaps you and i should visit the yard together. why? asked tyrion. the crabs are here. the remark brought more guffaws from the others. ser alliser stood up, his mouth a tight line. come and make your japes with steel in your hand. tyrion looked pointedly at his right hand. why, i have steel in my hand, ser alliser, although it appears to be a crab fork. shall we duel? he hopped up on his chair and began poking at thome's chest with the tiny fork. roars of laughter filled the tower room. bits of crab flew from the lord commander's mouth as he began to gasp and choke. even his raven joined in, cawing loudly from above the window. duel! duel! duel! ser alliser thorne walked from the room so stiffly it looked as though he had a dagger up his butt. mormont was still gasping for breath. tyrion pounded him on the back. to the victor goes the spoils, he called out. i claim thome's share of the crabs. finally the lord commander recovered himself. you are a wicked man, to provoke our ser alliser so, he scolded. tyrion seated himself and took a sip of wine. if a man paints a target on his chest, he should expect that sooner or later someone will loose an arrow at him. i have seen dead men with more humor than your ser alliser. not so, objected the lord steward, bowen marsh, a man as round and red as a pomegranate. you ought to hear the droll names he gives the lads he trains. tyrion had heard a few of those droll names. i'll wager the lads have a few names for him as well, he said. chip the ice off your eyes, my good lords. ser alliser thorne should be mucking out your stables, not drilling your young warriors. the watch has no shortage of stableboys, lord mormont grumbled. that seems to be all they send us these days. stableboys and sneak thieves and rapers. ser alliser is an anointed knight, one of the few to take the black since i have been lord commander. he fought bravely at king's landing. on the wrong side, ser jaremy rykker commented dryly. i ought to know, i was there on the battlements beside him. tywin lannister gave us a splendid choice. take the black, or see our heads on spikes before evenfall. no offense intended, tyrion. none taken, ser jaremy. my father is very fond of spiked heads, especially those of people who have annoyed him in some fashion. and a face as noble as yours, well, no doubt he saw you decorating the city wall above the king's gate. i think you would have looked very striking up there. thank you, ser jaremy replied with a sardonic smile. lord commander mormont cleared his throat. sometimes i fear ser alliser saw you true, tyrion. you do mock us and our noble purpose here. tyrion shrugged. we all need to be mocked from time to time, lord mormont, lest we start to take ourselves too seriously. more wine, please. he held out his cup. as rykker filled it for him, bo wen marsh said, you have a great thirst for a small man. oh, i think that lord tyrion is quite a large man, maester aemon said from the far end of the table. he spoke softly, yet the high officers of the night's watch all fell quiet, the better to hear what the ancient had to say. i think he is a giant come among us, here at the end of the world. tyrion answered gently, i've been called many things, my lord, but giant is seldom one of them. nonetheless, maester aemon said as his clouded, milk-white eyes moved to tyrion's face, i think it is true. for once, tyrion lannister found himself at a loss for words. he could only bow his head politely and say, you are too kind, maester aemon. the blind man smiled. he was a tiny thing, wrinkled and hairless, shrunken beneath the weight of a hundred years so his maester's collar with its links of many metals hung loose about his throat. i have been called many things, my lord, he said, but kind is seldom one of them. this time tyrion himself led the laughter. much later, when the serious business of eating was done and the others had left, mormont offered tyrion a chair beside the fire and a cup of mulled spirits so strong they brought tears to his eyes. the kingsroad can be perilous this far north, the lord commander told him as they drank. i have jyck and morrec, tyrion said, and yoren is riding south again. yoren is only one man. the watch shall escort you as far as winterfell, mormont announced in a tone that brooked no argument. three men should be sufficient. if you insist, my lord, tyrion said. you might send young snow. he would be glad for a chance to see his brothers. mormont frowned through his thick grey beard. snow? oh, the stark bastard. i think not. the young ones need to forget the lives they left behind them, the brothers and mothers and all that. a visit home would only stir up feelings best left alone. i know these things. my own blood kin... my sister maege rules bear island now, since my son's dishonor. i have nieces i have never seen. he took a swallow. besides, jon snow is only a boy. you shall have three strong swords, to keep you safe. i am touched by your concern, lord mormont. the strong drink was making tyrion light- headed, but not so drunk that he did not realize that the old bear wanted something from him. i hope i can repay your kindness. you can, mormont said bluntly. your sister sits beside the king. your brother is a great knight, and your father the most powerful lord in the seven kingdoms. speak to them for us. tell them of our need here. you have seen for yourself, my lord. the night's watch is dying. our strength is less than a thousand now. six hundred here, two hundred in the shadow tower, even fewer at eastwatch, and a scant third of those fighting men. the wall is a hundred leagues long. think on that. should an attack come, i have three men to defend each mile of wall. three and a third, tyrion said with a yawn. mormont scarcely seemed to hear him. the old man warmed his hands before the fire. i sent benjen stark to search after yohn royce's son, lost on his first ranging. the royce boy was green as summer grass, yet he insisted on the honor of his own command, saying it was his due as a knight. i did not wish to offend his lord father, so i yielded. i sent him out with two men i deemed as good as any in the watch. more fool. fool, the raven agreed. tyrion glanced up. the bird peered down at him with those beady black eyes, ruffling its wings. fool, it called again. doubtless old mormont would take it amiss if he throttled the creature. a pity. the lord commander took no notice of the irritating bird. gared was near as old as i am and longer on the wall, he went on, yet it would seem he forswore himself and fled. i should never have believed it, not of him, but lord eddard sent me his head from winterfell. of royce, there is no word. one deserter and two men lost, and now ben stark too has gone missing. he sighed deeply. who am i to send searching after him? in two years i will be seventy. too old and too weary for the burden i bear, yet if i set it down, who will pick it up? alliser thorne? bowen marsh? i would have to be as blind as maester aemon not to see what they are. the night's watch has become an army of sullen boys and tired old men. apart from the men at my table tonight, i have perhaps twenty who can read, and even fewer who can think, or plan, or lead. once the watch spent its summers building, and each lord commander raised the wall higher than he found it. now it is all we can do to stay alive. he was in deadly earnest, tyrion realized. he felt faintly embarrassed for the old man. lord mormont had spent a good part of his life on the wall, and he needed to believe if those years were to have any meaning. i promise, the king will hear of your need, tyrion said gravely, and i will speak to my father and my brother jaime as well. and he would. tyrion lannister was as good as his word. he left the rest unsaid; that king robert would ignore him, lord tywin would ask if he had taken leave of his senses, and jaime would only laugh. you are a young man, tyrion, mormont said. how many winters have you seen? he shrugged. eight, nine. i misremember. and all of them short. as you say, my lord. he had been born in the dead of winter, a terrible cruel one that the maesters said had lasted near three years, but tyrion's earliest memories were of spring. when i was a boy, it was said that a long summer always meant a long winter to come. this summer has lasted nine years, tyrion, and a tenth will soon be upon us. think on that. when i was a boy, tyrion replied, my wet nurse told me that one day, if men were good, the gods would give the world a summer without ending. perhaps we've been better than we thought, and the great summer is finally at hand. he grinned. the lord commander did not seem amused. you are not fool enough to believe that, my lord. already the days grow shorter. there can be no mistake, aemon has had letters from the citadel, findings in accord with his own. the end of summer stares us in the face. mormont reached out and clutched tyrion tightly by the hand. you must make them understand. i tell you, my lord, the darkness is coming. there are wild things in the woods, direwolves and mammoths and snow bears the size of aurochs, and i have seen darker shapes in my dreams. in your dreams, tyrion echoed, thinking how badly he needed another strong drink. mormont was deaf to the edge in his voice. the fisherfolk near eastwatch have glimpsed white walkers on the shore. this time tyrion could not hold his tongue. the fisherfolk of lannisport often glimpse merlings. denys mallister writes that the mountain people are moving south, slipping past the shadow tower in numbers greater than ever before. they are running, my lord... but running from what? lord mormont moved to the window and stared out into the night. these are old bones, lannister, but they have never felt a chill like this. tell the king what i say, i pray you. winter is coming, and when the long night falls, only the night's watch will stand between the realm and the darkness that sweeps from the north. the gods help us all if we are not ready. the gods help me if i do not get some sleep tonight. yoren is determined to ride at first light. tyrion got to his feet, sleepy from wine and tired of doom. i thank you for all the courtesies you have done me, lord mormont. tell them, tyrion. tell them and make them believe. that is all the thanks i need. he whistled, and his raven flew to him and perched on his shoulder. mormont smiled and gave the bird some corn from his pocket, and that was how tyrion left him. it was bitter cold outside. bundled thickly in his furs, tyrion lannister pulled on his gloves and nodded to the poor frozen wretches standing sentry outside the commander's keep. he set off across the yard for his own chambers in the king's tower, walking as briskly as his legs could manage. patches of snow crunched beneath his feet as his boots broke the night's crust, and his breath steamed before him like a banner. he shoved his hands into his armpits and walked faster, praying that morrec had remembered to warm his bed with hot bricks from the fire. behind the king's tower, the wall glimmered in the light of the moon, immense and mysterious. tyrion stopped for a moment to look up at it. his legs ached of cold and haste. suddenly a strange madness took hold of him, a yearning to look once more off the end of the world. it would be his last chance, he thought; tomorrow he would ride south, and he could not imagine why he would ever want to return to this frozen desolation. the king's tower was before him, with its promise of warmth and a soft bed, yet tyrion found himself walking past it, toward the vast pale palisade of the wall. a wooden stair ascended the south face, anchored on huge roughhewn beams sunk deep into the ice and frozen in place. back and forth it switched, clawing its way upward as crooked as a bolt of lightning. the black brothers assured him that it was much stronger than it looked, but tyrion's legs were cramping too badly for him to even contemplate the ascent. he went instead to the iron cage beside the well, clambered inside, and yanked hard on the bell rope, three quick pulls. he had to wait what seemed an eternity, standing there inside the bars with the wall to his back. long enough for tyrion to begin to wonder why he was doing this. he had just about decided to forget his sudden whim and go to bed when the cage gave a jerk and began to ascend. he moved upward slowly, by fits and starts at first, then more smoothly. the ground fell away beneath him, the cage swung, and tyrion wrapped his hands around the iron bars. he could feel the cold of the metal even through his gloves. morrec had a fire burning in his room, he noted with approval, but the lord commander's tower was dark. the old bear had more sense than he did, it seemed. then he was above the towers, still inching his way upward. castle black lay below him, etched in moonlight. you could see how stark and empty it was from up here; windowless keeps, crumbling walls, courtyards choked with broken stone. farther off, he could see the lights of mole's town, the little village half a league south along the kingsroad, and here and there the bright glitter of moonlight on water where icy streams descended from the mountain heights to cut across the plains. the rest of the world was a bleak emptiness of windswept hills and rocky fields spotted with snow. finally a thick voice behind him said, seven hells, it's the dwarf, and the cage jerked to a sudden stop and hung there, swinging slowly back and forth, the ropes creaking. bring him in, damn it. there was a grunt and a loud groaning of wood as the cage slid sideways and then the wall was beneath him. tyrion waited until the swinging had stopped before he pushed open the cage door and hopped down onto the ice. a heavy figure in black was leaning on the winch, while a second held the cage with a gloved hand. their faces were muffled in woolen scarves so only their eyes showed, and they were plump with layers of wool and leather, black on black. and what will you be wanting, this time of night? the one by the winch asked. a last look. the men exchanged sour glances. look all you want, the other one said. just have a care you don't fall off, little man. the old bear would have our hides. a small wooden shack stood under the great crane, and tyrion saw the dull glow of a brazier and felt a brief gust of warmth when the winch men opened the door and went back inside. and then he was alone. it was bitingly cold up here, and the wind pulled at his clothes like an insistent lover. the top of the wall was wider than the kingsroad often was, so tyrion had no fear of falling, although the footing was slicker than he would have liked. the brothers spread crushed stone across the walkways, but the weight of countless footsteps would melt the wall beneath, so the ice would seem to grow around the gravel, swallowing it, until the path was bare again and it was time to crush more stone. still, it was nothing that tyrion could not manage. he looked off to the east and west, at the wall stretching before him, a vast white road with no beginning and no end and a dark abyss on either side. west, he decided, for no special reason, and he began to walk that way, following the pathway nearest the north edge, where the gravel looked freshest. his bare cheeks were ruddy with the cold, and his legs complained more loudly with every step, but tyrion ignored them. the wind swirled around him, gravel crunched beneath his boots, while ahead the white ribbon followed the lines of the hills, rising higher and higher, until it was lost beyond the western horizon. he passed a massive catapult, as tall as a city wall, its base sunk deep into the wall. the throwing arm had been taken off for repairs and then forgotten; it lay there like a broken toy, half-embedded in the ice. on the far side of the catapult, a muffled voice called out a challenge. who goes there? halt! tyrion stopped. if i halt too long i'll freeze in place, jon, he said as a shaggy pale shape slid toward him silently and sniffed at his furs. hello, ghost. jon snow moved closer. he looked bigger and heavier in his layers of fur and leather, the hood of his cloak pulled down over his face. lannister, he said, yanking loose the scarf to uncover his mouth. this is the last place i would have expected to see you. he carried a heavy spear tipped in iron, taller than he was, and a sword hung at his side in a leather sheath. across his chest was a gleaming black warhorn, banded with silver. this is the last place i would have expected to be seen, tyrion admitted. i was captured by a whim. if i touch ghost, will he chew my hand off? not with me here, jon promised. tyrion scratched the white wolf behind the ears. the red eyes watched him impassively. the beast came up as high as his chest now. another year, and tyrion had the gloomy feeling he'd be looking up at him. what are you doing up here tonight? he asked. besides freezing your manhood off... i have drawn night guard, jon said. again. ser alliser has kindly arranged for the watch commander to take a special interest in me. he seems to think that if they keep me awake half the night, i'll fall asleep during morning drill. so far i have disappointed him. tyrion grinned. and has ghost learned to juggle yet? no, said jon, smiling, but grenn held his own against haider this morning, and pyp is no longer dropping his sword quite so often as he did. pyp? pypar is his real name. the small boy with the large ears. he saw me working with grenn and asked for help. thorne had never even shown him the proper way to grip a sword. he turned to look north. i have a mile of wall to guard. will you walk with me? if you walk slowly, tyrion said. the watch commander tells me i must walk, to keep my blood from freezing, but he never said how fast. they walked, with ghost pacing along beside jon like a white shadow. i leave on the morrow, tyrion said. i know. jon sounded strangely sad. i plan to stop at winterfell on the way south. if there is any message that you would like me to deliver... tell robb that i'm going to command the night's watch and keep him safe, so he might as well take up needlework with the girls and have mikken melt down his sword for horseshoes. your brother is bigger than me, tyrion said with a laugh. i decline to deliver any message that might get me killed. rickon will ask when i'm coming home. try to explain where i've gone, if you can. tell him he can have all my things while i'm away, he'll like that. people seemed to be asking a great deal of him today, tyrion lannister thought. you could put all this in a letter, you know. rickon can't read yet. bran... he stopped suddenly. i don't know what message to send to bran. help him, tyrion. what help could i give him? i am no maester, to ease his pain. i have no spells to give him back his legs. you gave me help when i needed it, jon snow said. i gave you nothing, tyrion said. words. then give your words to bran too. you're asking a lame man to teach a cripple how to dance, tyrion said. however sincere the lesson, the result is likely to be grotesque. still, i know what it is to love a brother, lord snow. i will give bran whatever small help is in my power. thank you, my lord of lannister. he pulled off his glove and offered his bare hand. friend. tyrion found himself oddly touched. most of my kin are bastards, he said with a wry smile, but you're the first i've had to friend. he pulled a glove off with his teeth and clasped snow by the hand, flesh against flesh. the boy's grip was firm and strong. when he had donned his glove again, jon snow turned abruptly and walked to the low, icy northern parapet. beyond him the wall fell away sharply; beyond him there was only the darkness and the wild. tyrion followed him, and side by side they stood upon the edge of the world. the night's watch permitted the forest to come no closer than half a mile of the north face of the wall. the thickets of ironwood and sentinel and oak that had once grown there had been harvested centuries ago, to create a broad swath of open ground through which no enemy could hope to pass unseen. tyrion had heard that elsewhere along the wall, between the three fortresses, the wildwood had come creeping back over the decades, that there were places where greygreen sentinels and pale white weirwoods had taken root in the shadow of the wall itself, but castle black had a prodigious appetite for firewood, and here the forest was still kept at bay by the axes of the black brothers. it was never far, though. from up here tyrion could see it, the dark trees looming beyond the stretch of open ground, like a second wall built parallel to the first, a wall of night. few axes had ever swung in that black wood, where even the moonlight could not penetrate the ancient tangle of root and thorn and grasping limb. out there the trees grew huge, and the rangers said they seemed to brood and knew not men. it was small wonder the night's watch named it the haunted forest. as he stood there and looked at all that darkness with no fires burning anywhere, with the wind blowing and the cold like a spear in his guts, tyrion lannister felt as though he could almost believe the talk of the others, the enemy in the night. his jokes of grumkins and snarks no longer seemed quite so droll. my uncle is out there, jon snow said softly, leaning on his spear as he stared off into the darkness. the first night they sent me up here, i thought, uncle benjen will ride back tonight, and i'll see him first and blow the horn. he never came, though. not that night and not any night. give him time, tyrion said. far off to the north, a wolf began to howl. another voice picked up the call, then another. ghost cocked his head and listened. if he doesn't come back, jon snow promised, ghost and i will go find him. he put his hand on the direwolf s head. i believe you, tyrion said, but what he thought was, and who will go find you? he shivered. as he stood in the predawn chill watching chiggen butcher his horse, tyrion lannister chalked up one more debt owed the starks. steam rose from inside the carcass when the squat sellsword opened the belly with his skinning knife. his hands moved deftly, with never a wasted cut; the work had to be done quickly, before the stink of blood brought shadowcats down from the heights. none of us will go hungry tonight, bronn said. he was near a shadow himself; bone thin and bone hard, with black eyes and black hair and a stubble of beard. some of us may, tyrion told him. i am not fond of eating horse. particularly my horse. meat is meat, bronn said with a shrug. the dothraki like horse more than beef or pork. do you take me for a dothraki? tyrion asked sourly. the dothraki ate horse, in truth; they also left deformed children out for the feral dogs who ran behind their khalasars. dothraki customs had scant appeal for him. chiggen sliced a thin strip of bloody meat off the carcass and held it up for inspection. want a taste, dwarf? my brother jaime gave me that mare for my twenty-third name day, tyrion said in a flat voice. thank him for us, then. if you ever see him again. chiggen grinned, showing yellow teeth, and swallowed the raw meat in two bites. tastes well bred. better if you fry it up with onions, bronn put in. wordlessly, tyrion limped away. the cold had settled deep in his bones, and his legs were so sore he could scarcely walk. perhaps his dead mare was the lucky one. he had hours more riding ahead of him, followed by a few mouthfuls of food and a short, cold sleep on hard ground, and then another night of the same, and another, and another, and the gods only knew how it would end. damn her, he muttered as he struggled up the road to rejoin his captors, remembering, damn her and all the starks. the memory was still bitter. one moment he'd been ordering supper, and an eye blink later he was facing a room of armed men, with jyck reaching for a sword and the fat innkeep shrieking, no swords, not here, please, m'lords. tyrion wrenched down jyck's arm hurriedly, before he got them both hacked to pieces. where are your courtesies, jyck? our good hostess said no swords. do as she asks. he forced a smile that must have looked as queasy as it felt. you're making a sad mistake, lady stark. i had no part in any attack on your son. on my honor- lannister honor, was all she said. she held up her hands for all the room to see. his dagger left these scars. the blade he sent to open my son's throat. tyrion felt the anger all around him, thick and smoky, fed by the deep cuts in the stark woman's hands. kill him, hissed some drunken slattern from the back, and other voices took up the call, faster than he would have believed. strangers all, friendly enough only a moment ago, and yet now they cried for his blood like hounds on a trail. tyrion spoke up loudly, trying to keep the quaver from his voice. if lady stark believes i have some crime to answer for, i will go with her and answer for it. it was the only possible course. trying to cut their way out of this was a sure invitation to an early grave. a good dozen swords had responded to the stark woman's plea for help: the harrenhal man, the three brackens, a pair of unsavory sellswords who looked as though they'd kill him as soon as spit, and some fool field hands who doubtless had no idea what they were doing. against that, what did tyrion have? a dagger at his belt, and two men. jyck swung a fair enough sword, but morrec scarcely counted; he was part groom, part cook, part body servant, and no soldier. as for yoren, whatever his feelings might have been, the black brothers were sworn to take no part in the quarrels of the realm. yoren would do nothing. and indeed, the black brother stepped aside silently when the old knight by catelyn stark's side said, take their weapons, and the sellsword bronn stepped forward to pull the sword from jyck's fingers and relieve them all of their daggers. good, the old man said as the tension in the common room ebbed palpably, excellent. tyrion recognized the gruff voice; winterfell's master-at-arms, shorn of his whiskers. scarlet-tinged spittle flew from the fat innkeep's mouth as she begged of catelyn stark, don't kill him here! don't kill him anywhere, tyrion urged. take him somewheres else, no blood here, m'lady, i wants no high lordlin's quarrels. we are taking him back to winterfell, she said, and tyrion thought, well, perhaps... by then he'd had a moment to glance over the room and get a better idea of the situation. he was not altogether displeased by what he saw. oh, the stark woman had been clever, no doubt of it. force them to make a public affirmation of the oaths sworn her father by the lords they served, and then call on them for succor, and her a woman, yes, that was sweet. yet her success was not as complete as she might have liked. there were close to fifty in the common room by his rough count. catelyn stark's plea had roused a bare dozen; the others looked confused, or frightened, or sullen. only two of the freys had stirred, tyrion noted, and they'd sat back down quick enough when their captain failed to move. he might have smiled if he'd dared. winterfell it is, then, he said instead. that was a long ride, as he could well attest, having just ridden it the other way. so many things could happen along the way. my father will wonder what has become of me, he added, catching the eye of the swordsman who'd offered to yield up his room. he'll pay a handsome reward to any man who brings him word of what happened here today. lord tywin would do no such thing, of course, but tyrion would make up for it if he won free. ser rodrik glanced at his lady, his look worried, as well it might be. his men come with him, the old knight announced. and we'll thank the rest of you to stay quiet about what you've seen here. it was all tyrion could do not to laugh. quiet? the old fool. unless he took the whole inn, the word would begin to spread the instant they were gone. the freerider with the gold coin in his pocket would fly to easterly rock like an arrow. if not him, then someone else. yoren would carry the story south. that fool singer might make a lay of it. the freys would report back to their lord, and the gods only knew what he might do. lord walder frey might be sworn to riverrun, but he was a cautious man who had lived a long time by making certain he was always on the winning side. at the very least he would send his birds winging south to king's landing, and he might well dare more than that. catelyn stark wasted no time. we must ride at once. we'll want fresh mounts, and provisions for the road. you men, know that you have the eternal gratitude of house stark. if any of you choose to help us guard our captives and get them safe to winterfell, i promise you shall be well rewarded. that was all it took; the fools came rushing forward. tyrion studied their faces; they would indeed be well rewarded, he vowed to himself, but perhaps not quite as they imagined. yet even as they were bundling him outside, saddling the horses in the rain, and tying his hands with a length of coarse rope, tyrion lannister was not truly afraid. they would never get him to winterfell, he would have given odds on that. riders would be after them within the day, birds would take wing, and surely one of the river lords would want to curry favor with his father enough to take a hand. tyrion was congratulating himself on his subtlety when someone pulled a hood down over his eyes and lifted him up onto a saddle. they set out through the rain at a hard gallop, and before long tyrion's thighs were cramped and aching and his butt throbbed with pain. even when they were safely away from the inn, and catelyn stark slowed them to a trot, it was a miserable pounding journey over rough ground, made worse by his blindness. every twist and turn put him in danger of falling off his horse. the hood muffled sound, so he could not make out what was being said around him, and the rain soaked through the cloth and made it cling to his face, until even breathing was a struggle. the rope chafed his wrists raw and seemed to grow tighter as the night wore on. i was about to settle down to a warm fire and a roast fowl, and that wretched singer had to open his mouth, he thought mournfully. the wretched singer had come along with them. there is a great song to be made from this, and i'm the one to make it, he told catelyn stark when he announced his intention of riding with them to see how the splendid adventure turned out. tyrion wondered whether the boy would think the adventure quite so splendid once the lannister riders caught up with them. the rain had finally stopped and dawn light was seeping through the wet cloth over his eyes when catelyn stark gave the command to dismount. rough hands pulled him down from his horse, untied his wrists, and yanked the hood off his head. when he saw the narrow stony road, the foothills rising high and wild all around them, and the jagged snowcapped peaks on the distant horizon, all the hope went out of him in a rush. this is the high road, he gasped, looking at lady stark with accusation. the eastern road. you said we were riding for winterfell! catelyn stark favored him with the faintest of smiles. often and loudly, she agreed. no doubt your friends will ride that way when they come after us. i wish them good speed. even now, long days later, the memory filled him with a bitter rage. all his life tyrion had prided himself on his cunning, the only gift the gods had seen fit to give him, and yet this seven- times-damned shewolf catelyn stark had outwitted him at every turn. the knowledge was more galling than the bare fact of his abduction. they stopped only as long as it took to feed and water the horses, and then they were off again. this time tyrion was spared the hood. after the second night they no longer bound his hands, and once they had gained the heights they scarcely bothered to guard him at all. it seemed they did not fear his escape. and why should they? up here the land was harsh and wild, and the high road little more than a stony track. if he did run, how far could he hope to go, alone and without provisions? the shadowcats would make a morsel of him, and the clans that dwelt in the mountain fastnesses were brigands and murderers who bowed to no law but the sword. yet still the stark woman drove them forward relentlessly. he knew where they were bound. he had known it since the moment they pulled off his hood. these mountains were the domain of house arryn, and the late hand's widow was a tully, catelyn stark's sister... and no friend to the lannisters. tyrion had known the lady lysa slightly during her years at king's landing, and did not look forward to renewing the acquaintance. his captors were clustered around a stream a short ways down the high road. the horses had drunk their fill of the icy cold water, and were grazing on clumps of brown grass that grew from clefts in the rock. jyck and morrec huddled close, sullen and miserable. mohor stood over them, leaning on his spear and wearing a rounded iron cap that made him look as if he had a bowl on his head. nearby, marillion the singer sat oiling his woodharp, complaining of what the damp was doing to his strings. we must have some rest, my lady, the hedge knight ser willis wode was saying to catelyn stark as tyrion approached. he was lady whent's man, stiff-necked and stolid, and the first to rise to aid catelyn stark back at the inn. ser willis speaks truly, my lady, ser rodrik said. this is the third horse we have lost- we will lose more than horses if we're overtaken by the lannisters, she reminded them. her face was windburnt and gaunt, but it had lost none of its determination. small chance of that here, tyrion put in. the lady did not ask your views, dwarf, snapped kurleket, a great fat oaf with short-cropped hair and a pig's face. he was one of the brackens, a man-at-arms in the service of lord jonos. tyrion had made a special effort to learn all their names, so he might thank them later for their tender treatment of him. a lannister always paid his debts. kurleket would learn that someday, as would his friends lharys and mohor, and the good ser willis, and the sellswords bronn and chiggen. he planned an especially sharp lesson for marillion, him of the woodharp and the sweet tenor voice, who was struggling so manfully to rhyme imp with gimp and limp so he could make a song of this outrage. let him speak, lady stark commanded. tyrion lannister seated himself on a rock. by now our pursuit is likely racing across the neck, chasing your lie up the kingsroad... assuming there is a pursuit, which is by no means certain. oh, no doubt the word has reached my father... but my father does not love me overmuch, and i am not at all sure that he will bother to bestir himself. it was only half a lie; lord tywin lannister cared not a fig for his deformed son, but he tolerated no slights on the honor of his house. this is a cruel land, lady stark. you'll find no succor until you reach the vale, and each mount you lose burdens the others all the more. worse, you risk losing me. i am small, and not strong, and if i die, then what's the point? that was no lie at all; tyrion did not know how much longer he could endure this pace. it might be said that your death is the point, lannister, catelyn stark replied. i think not, tyrion said. if you wanted me dead, you had only to say the word, and one of these staunch friends of yours would gladly have given me a red smile. he looked at kurleket, but the man was too dim to taste the mockery. the starks do not murder men in their beds. nor do i, he said. -i tell you again, i had no part in the attempt to kill your son. the assassin was armed with your dagger. tyrion felt the heat rise in him. it was not my dagger, he insisted. how many times must i swear to that? lady stark, whatever you may believe of me, i am not a stupid man. only a fool would arm a common footpad with his own blade. just for a moment, he thought he saw a flicker of doubt in her eyes, but what she said was, why would petyr lie to me? why does a bear shit in the woods? he demanded. because it is his nature. lying comes as easily as breathing to a man like littlefinger. you ought to know that, you of all people. she took a step toward him, her face tight. and what does that mean, lannister? tyrion cocked his head. why, every man at court has heard him tell how he took your maidenhead, my lady. that is a lie! catelyn stark said. oh, wicked little imp, marillion said, shocked. kurleket drew his dirk, a vicious piece of black iron. at your word, m'lady, i'll toss his lying tongue at your feet. his pig eyes were wet with excitement at the prospect. catelyn stark stared at tyrion with a coldness on her face such as he had never seen. petyr baelish loved me once. he was only a boy. his passion was a tragedy for all of us, but it was real, and pure, and nothing to be made mock of. he wanted my hand. that is the truth of the matter. you are truly an evil man, lannister. and you are truly a fool, lady stark. littlefinger has never loved anyone but littlefinger, and i promise you that it is not your hand that he boasts of, it's those ripe breasts of yours, and that sweet mouth, and the heat between your legs. kurleket grabbed a handful of hair and yanked his head back in a hard jerk, baring his throat. tyrion felt the cold kiss of steel beneath his chin. shall i bleed him, my lady? kill me and the truth dies with me, tyrion gasped. let him talk, catelyn stark commanded. kurleket let go of tyrion' s hair, reluctantly. tyrion took a deep breath. how did littlefinger tell you i came by this dagger of his? answer me that. you won it from him in a wager, during the tourney on prince joffrey's name day. when my brother jaime was unhorsed by the knight of flowers, that was his story, no? it was, she admitted. a line creased her brow. riders! the shriek came from the wind-carved ridge above them. ser rodrik had sent lharys scrambling up the rock face to watch the road while they took their rest. for a long second, no one moved. catelyn stark was the first to react. ser rodrik, ser willis, to horse, she shouted. get the other mounts behind us. mohor, guard the prisoners- arm us! tyrion sprang to his feet and seized her by the arm. you will need every sword. she knew he was right, tyrion could see it. the mountain clans cared nothing for the enmities of the great houses; they would slaughter stark and lannister with equal fervor, as they slaughtered each other. they might spare catelyn herself; she was still young enough to bear sons. still, she hesitated. i hear them! ser rodrik called out. tyrion turned his head to listen, and there it was: hoofbeats, a dozen horses or more, coming nearer. suddenly everyone was moving, reaching for weapons, running to their mounts. pebbles rained down around them as lharys came springing and sliding down the ridge. he landed breathless in front of catelyn stark, an ungainly- looking man with wild tufts of rust- colored hair sticking out from under a conical steel cap. twenty men, maybe twenty- five, he said, breathless. milk snakes or moon brothers, by my guess. they must have eyes out, m'lady... hidden watchers... they know we're here. ser rodrik cassel was already ahorse, a longsword in hand. mohor crouched behind a boulder, both hands on his iron-tipped spear, a dagger between his teeth. you, singer, ser willis wode called out. help me with this breastplate. marillion sat frozen, clutching his woodharp, his face as pale as milk, but tyrion's man morrec bounded quickly to his feet and moved to help the knight with his armor. tyrion kept his grip on catelyn stark. you have no choice, he told her. three of us, and a fourth man wasted guarding us... four men can be the difference between life and death up here. give me your word that you will put down your swords again after the fight is done. my word? the hoofbeats were louder now. tyrion grinned crookedly. oh, that you have, my lady... on my honor as a lannister. for a moment he thought she would spit at him, but instead she snapped, arm them, and as quick as that she was pulling away. ser rodrik tossed jyck his sword and scabbard, and wheeled to meet the foe. morrec helped himself to a bow and quiver, and went to one knee beside the road. he was a better archer than swordsman. and bronn rode up to offer tyrion a double- bladed axe. i have never fought with an axe. the weapon felt awkward and unfamiliar in his hands. it had a short haft, a heavy head, a nasty spike on top. pretend you're splitting logs, bronn said, drawing his longsword from the scabbard across his back. he spat, and trotted off to form up beside chiggen and ser rodrik. ser willis mounted up to join them, fumbling with his helmet, a metal pot with a thin slit for his eyes and a long black silk plume. logs don't bleed, tyrion said to no one in particular. he felt naked without armor. he looked around for a rock and ran over to where marillion was hiding. move over. go away! the boy screamed back at him. i'm a singer, i want no part of this fight! what, lost your taste for adventure? tyrion kicked at the youth until he slid over, and not a moment too soon. a heartbeat later, the riders were on them. there were no heralds, no banners, no horns nor drums, only the twang of bowstrings as morrec and lharys let fly, and suddenly the clansmen came thundering out of the dawn, lean dark men in boiled leather and mismatched armor, faces hidden behind barred halffielms. in gloved hands were clutched all manner of weapons: longswords and lances and sharpened scythes, spiked clubs and daggers and heavy iron mauls. at their head rode a big man in a striped shadowskin cloak, armed with a two-handed greatsword. ser rodrik shouted winterfell! and rode to meet him, with bronn and chiggen beside him, screaming some wordless battle cry. ser willis wode followed, swinging a spiked morningstar around his head. harrenhal! harrenhal! he sang. tyrion felt a sudden urge to leap up, brandish his axe, and boom out, caster ly rock! but the insanity passed quickly and he crouched down lower. he heard the screams of frightened horses and the crash of metal on metal. chiggen's sword raked across the naked face of a mailed rider, and bronn plunged through the clansmen like a whirlwind, cutting down foes right and left. ser rodrik hammered at the big man in the shadowskin cloak, their horses dancing round each other as they traded blow for blow. jyck vaulted onto a horse and galloped bareback into the fray. tyrion saw an arrow sprout from the throat of the man in the shadowskin cloak. when he opened his mouth to scream, only blood came out. by the time he fell, ser rodrik was fighting someone else. suddenly marillion shrieked, covering his head with his woodharp as a horse leapt over their rock. tyrion scrambled to his feet as the rider turned to come back at them, hefting a spiked maul. tyrion swung his axe with both hands. the blade caught the charging horse in the throat with a meaty thunk, angling upward, and tyrion almost lost his grip as the animal screamed and collapsed. he managed to wrench the axe free and lurch clumsily out of the way. marillion was less fortunate. horse and rider crashed to the ground in a tangle on top of the singer. tyrion danced back in while the brigand's leg was still pinned beneath his fallen mount, and buried the axe in the man's neck, just above the shoulder blades. as he struggled to yank the blade loose, he heard marillion moaning under the bodies. someone help me, the singer gasped. gods have mercy, i'm bleeding. i believe that's horse blood, tyrion said. the singer's hand came crawling out from beneath the dead animal, scrabbling in the dirt like a spider with five legs. tyrion put his heel on the grasping fingers and felt a satisfying crunch. close your eyes and pretend you're dead, he advised the singer before he hefted the axe and turned away. after that, things ran together. the dawn was full of shouts and screams and heavy with the scent of blood, and the world had turned to chaos. arrows hissed past his ear and clattered off the rocks. he saw bronn unhorsed, fighting with a sword in each hand. tyrion kept on the fringes of the fight, sliding from rock to rock and darting out of the shadows to hew at the legs of passing horses. he found a wounded clansman and left him dead, helping himself to the man's halfhelm. it fit too snugly, but tyrion was glad of any protection at all. jyck was cut down from behind while he sliced at a man in front of him, and later tyrion stumbled over kurleket's body. the pig face had been smashed in with a mace, but tyrion recognized the dirk as he plucked it from the man's dead fingers. he was sliding it through his belt when he heard a woman's scream. catelyn stark was trapped against the stone face of the mountain with three men around her, one still mounted and the other two on foot. she had a dagger clutched awkwardly in her maimed hands, but her back was to the rock now and they had penned her on three sides. let them have the bitch, tyrion thought, and welcome to her, yet somehow he was moving. he caught the first man in the back of the knee before they even knew he was there, and the heavy axehead split flesh and bone like rotten wood. logs that bleed, tyrion thought inanely as the second man came for him. tyrion ducked under his sword, lashed out with the axe, the man reeled backward... and catelyn stark stepped up behind him and opened his throat. the horseman remembered an urgent engagement elsewhere and galloped off suddenly. tyrion looked around. the enemy were all vanquished or vanished. somehow the fighting had ended when he wasn't looking. dying horses and wounded men lay all around, screaming or moaning. to his vast astonishment, he was not one of them. he opened his fingers and let the axe thunk to the ground. his hands were sticky with blood. he could have sworn they had been fighting for half a day, but the sun seemed scarcely to have moved at all. your first battle? bronn asked later as he bent over jyck's body, pulling off his boots. they were good boots, as befit one of lord tywin's men; heavy leather, oiled and supple, much finer than what bronn was wearing. tyrion nodded. my father will be so proud, he said. his legs were cramping so badly he could scarcely stand. odd, he had never once noticed the pain during the battle. you need a woman now, bronn said with a glint in his black eyes. he shoved the boots into his saddlebag. nothing like a woman after a man's been blooded, take my word. chiggen stopped looting the corpses of the brigands long enough to snort and lick his lips. tyrion glanced over to where lady stark was dressing ser rodrik's wounds. i'm willing if she is, he said. the freeriders broke into laughter, and tyrion grinned and thought, there's a start. afterward he knelt by the stream and washed the blood off his face in water cold as ice. as he limped back to the others, he glanced again at the slain. the dead clansmen were thin, ragged men, their horses scrawny and undersized, with every rib showing. what weapons bronn and chiggen had left them were none too impressive. mauls, clubs, a scythe... he remembered the big man in the shadowskin cloak who had dueled ser rodrik with a two-handed greatsword, but when he found his corpse sprawled on the stony ground, the man was not so big after all, the cloak was gone, and tyrion saw that the blade was badly notched, its cheap steel spotted with rust. small wonder the clansmen had left nine bodies on the ground. they had only three dead; two of lord bracken's men-at-arms, kurleket and mohor, and his own man jyck, who had made such a bold show with his bareback charge. a fool to the end, tyrion thought. lady stark, i urge you to press on, with all haste, ser willis wode said, his eyes scanning the ridgetops warily through the slit in his helm. we drove them off for the moment, but they will not have gone far. we must bury our dead, ser willis, she said. these were brave men. i will not leave them to the crows and shadowcats. this soil is too stony for digging, ser willis said. then we shall gather stones for cairns. gather all the stones you want, bronn told her, but do it without me or chiggen. i've better things to do than pile rocks on dead men... breathing, for one. he looked over the rest of the survivors. any of you who hope to be alive come nightfall, ride with us. my lady, i fear he speaks the truth, ser rodrik said wearily. the old knight had been wounded in the fight, a deep gash in his left arm and a spear thrust that grazed his neck, and he sounded his age. if we linger here, they will be on us again for a certainty, and we may not live through a second attack. tyrion could see the anger in catelyn's face, but she had no choice. may the gods forgive us, then. we will ride at once. there was no shortage of horses now. tyrion moved his saddle to jyck's spotted gelding, who looked strong enough to last another three or four days at least. he was about to mount when lharys stepped up and said, i'll take that dirk now, dwarf. let him keep it. catelyn stark looked down from her horse. and see that he has his axe back as well. we may have need of it if we are attacked again. you have my thanks, lady, tyrion said, mounting up. save them, she said curtly. i trust you no more than i did before. she was gone before he could frame a reply. tyrion adjusted his stolen helm and took the axe from bronn. he remembered how he had begun the journey, with his wrists bound and a hood pulled down over his head, and decided that this was a definite improvement. lady stark could keep her trust; so long as he could keep the axe, he would count himself ahead in the game. ser willis wode led them out. bronn took the rear, with lady stark safely in the middle, ser rodrik a shadow beside her. marillion kept throwing sullen looks back at tyrion as they rode. the singer had broken several ribs, his woodharp, and all four fingers on his playing hand, yet the day had not been an utter loss to him; somewhere he had acquired a magnificent shadowskin cloak, thick black fur slashed by stripes of white. he huddled beneath its folds silently, and for once had nothing to say. they heard the deep growls of shadowcats behind them before they had gone half a mile, and later the wild snarling of the beasts fighting over the corpses they had left behind. marillion grew visibly pale. tyrion trotted up beside him. craven, he said, rhymes nicely with raven. he kicked his horse and moved past the singer, up to ser rodrik and catelyn stark. she looked at him, lips pressed tightly together. as i was saying before we were so rudely interrupted, tyrion began, there is a serious flaw in littlefinger's fable. whatever you may believe of me, lady stark, i promise you this- 1 never bet against my family. you want eat? mord asked, glowering. he had a plate of oiled beans in one thick, stub- fingered hand. tyrion lannister was starved, but he refused to let this brute see him cringe. a leg of lamb would be pleasant, he said, from the heap of soiled straw in the corner of his cell. perhaps a dish of peas and onions, some fresh baked bread with butter, and a flagon of mulled wine to wash it down. or beer, if that's easier. i try not to be overly particular. is beans, mord said. here. he held out the plate. tyrion sighed. the turnkey was twenty stone of gross stupidity, with brown rotting teeth and small dark eyes. the left side of his face was slick with scar where an axe had cut off his ear and part of his cheek. he was as predictable as he was ugly, but tyrion was hungry. he reached up for the plate. mord jerked it away, grinning. is here, he said, holding it out beyond tyrion's reach. the dwarf climbed stiffly to his feet, every joint aching. must we play the same fool's game with every meal? he made another grab for the beans. mord shambled backward, grinning through his rotten teeth. is here, dwarf man. he held the plate out at arm's length, over the edge where the cell ended and the sky began. you not want eat? here. come take. tyrion's arms were too short to reach the plate, and he was not about to step that close to the edge. all it would take would be a quick shove of mord's heavy white belly, and he would end up a sickening red splotch on the stones of sky, like so many other prisoners of the eyrie over the centuries. come to think on it, i'm not hungry after all, he declared, retreating to the corner of his cell. mord grunted and opened his thick fingers. the wind took the plate, flipping it over as it fell. a handful of beans sprayed back at them as the food tumbled out of sight. the turnkey laughed, his gut shaking like a bowl of pudding. tyrion felt a pang of rage. you fucking son of a pox-ridden ass, he spat. i hope you die of a bloody flux. for that, mord gave him a kick, driving a steel-toed boot hard into tyrion's ribs on the way out. i take it back! he gasped as he doubled over on the straw. i'll kill you myself, i swear it! the heavy ironbound door slammed shut. tyrion heard the rattle of keys. for a small man, he had been cursed with a dangerously big mouth, he reflected as he crawled back to his corner of what the arryns laughably called their dungeon. he huddled beneath the thin blanket that was his only bedding, staring out at a blaze of empty blue sky and distant mountains that seemed to go on forever, wishing he still had the shadowskin cloak he'd won from marillion at dice, after the singer had stolen it off the body of that brigand chief. the skin had smelled of blood and mold, but it was warm and thick. mord had taken it the moment he laid eyes on it. the wind tugged at his blanket with gusts sharp as talons. his cell was miserably small, even for a dwarf. not five feet away, where a wall ought to have been, where a wall would be in a proper dungeon, the floor ended and the sky began. he had plenty of fresh air and sunshine, and the moon and stars by night, but tyrion would have traded it all in an instant for the dankest, gloomiest pit in the bowels of the easterly rock. you fly, mord had promised him, when he'd shoved him into the cell. twenty day, thirty, fifty maybe. then you fly. the arryns kept the only dungeon in the realm where the prisoners were welcome to escape at will. that first day, after girding up his courage for hours, tyrion had lain flat on his stomach and squirmed to the edge, to poke out his head and look down. sky was six hundred feet below, with nothing between but empty air. if he craned his neck out as far as it could go, he could see other cells to his right and left and above him. he was a bee in a stone honeycomb, and someone had torn off his wings. it was cold in the cell, the wind screamed night and day, and worst of all, the floor sloped. ever so slightly, yet it was enough. he was afraid to close his eyes, afraid that he might roll over in his steep and wake in sudden terror as he went sliding off the edge. small wonder the sky cells drove men mad. gods save me, some previous tenant had written on the wall in something that looked suspiciously like blood, the blue is calling. at first tyrion wondered who he'd been, and what had become of him; later, he decided that he would rather not know. if only he had shut his mouth... the wretched boy had started it, looking down on him from a throne of carved weirwood beneath the moon- and- falcon banners of house arryn. tyrion lannister had been looked down on all his life, but seldom by rheumy-eyed six- year-olds who needed to stuff fat cushions under their cheeks to lift them to the height of a man. is he the bad man? the boy had asked, clutching his doll. he is, the lady lysa had said from the lesser throne beside him. she was all in blue, powdered and perfumed for the suitors who filled her court. he's so small, the lord of the eyrie said, giggling. this is tyrion the imp, of house lannister, who murdered your father. she raised her voice so it carried down the length of high hall of the eyrie, ringing off the milk-white walls and the slender pillars, so every man could hear it. he slew the hand of the king! oh, did i kill him too? tyrion had said, like a fool. that would have been a very good time to have kept his mouth closed and his head bowed. he could see that now; seven hells, he had seen it then. the high hall of the arryns was long and austere, with a forbidding coldness to its walls of blue-veined white marble, but the faces around him had been colder by far. the power of casterly rock was far away, and there were no friends of the lannisters in the vale of arryn. submission and silence would have been his best defenses. but tyrion's mood had been too foul for sense. to his shame, he had faltered during the last leg of their day-long climb up to the eyrie, his stunted legs unable to take him any higher. bronn had carried him the rest of the way, and the humiliation poured oil on the flames of his anger. it would seem i've been a busy little fellow, he said with bitter sarcasm. i wonder when i found the time to do all this slaying and murdering. he ought to have remembered who he was dealing with. lysa arryn and her half-sane weakling son had not been known at court for their love of wit, especially when it was directed at them. imp, lysa said coldly, you will guard that mocking tongue of yours and speak to my son politely, or i promise you will have cause to regret it. remember where you are. this is the eyrie, and these are knights of the vale you see around you, true men who loved jon arryn well. every one of them would die for me. lady arryn, should any harm come to me, my brother jaime will be pleased to see that they do. even as he spat out the words, tyrion knew they were folly. can you fly, my lord of lannister? lady lysa asked. does a dwarf have wings? if not, you would be wiser to swallow the next threat that comes to mind. i made no threats, tyrion said. that was a promise. little lord robert hopped to his feet at that, so upset he dropped his doll. you can't hurt us, he screamed. no one can hurt us here. tell him, mother, tell him he can't hurt us here. the boy began to twitch. the eyrie is impregnable, lysa arryn declared calmly. she drew her son close, holding him safe in the circle of her plump white arms. the imp is trying to frighten us, sweet baby. the lannisters are all liars. no one will hurt my sweet boy. the hell of it was, she was no doubt right. having seen what it took to get here, tyrion could well imagine how it would be for a knight trying to fight his way up in armor, while stones and arrows poured down from above and enemies contested with him for every step. nightmare did not begin to describe it. small wonder the eyrie had never been taken. still, tyrion had been unable to silence himself. not impregnable, he said, merely inconvenient. young robert pointed down, his hand trembling. you're a liar. mother, i want to see him fly. two guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks seized tyrion by the arms, lifting him off his floor. the gods only know what might have happened then were it not for catelyn stark. sister, she called out from where she stood below the thrones, i beg you to remember, this man is my prisoner. i will not have him harmed. lysa arryn glanced at her sister coolly for a moment, then rose and swept down on tyrion, her long skirts trailing after her. for an instant he feared she would strike him, but instead she commanded them to release him. her men shoved him to the floor, his legs went out from under him, and tyrion fell. he must have made quite a sight as he struggled to his knees, only to feel his right leg spasm, sending him sprawling once more. laughter boomed up and down the high hall of the arryns. my sister's little guest is too weary to stand, lady lysa announced. ser vardis, take him down to the dungeon. a rest in one of our sky cells will do him much good. the guardsmen jerked him upright. tyrion lannister dangled between them, kicking feebly, his face red with shame. i will remember this, he told them all as they carried him off. and so he did, for all the good it did him. at first he had consoled himself that this imprisonment could not last long. lysa arryn wanted to humble him, that was all. she would send for him again, and soon. if not her, then catelyn stark would want to question him. this time he would guard his tongue more closely. they dare not kill him out of hand; he was still a lannister of casterly rock, and if they shed his blood, it would mean war. or so he had told himself. now he was not so certain. perhaps his captors only meant to let him rot here, but he feared he did not have the strength to rot for long. he was growing weaker every day, and it was only a matter of time until mord's kicks and blows did him serious harm, provided the gaoler did not starve him to death first. a few more nights of cold and hunger, and the blue would start calling to him too. he wondered what was happening beyond the walls (such as they were) of his cell. lord tywin would surely have sent out riders when the word reached him. jaime might be leading a host through the mountains of the moon even now... unless he was riding north against winterfell instead. did anyone outside the vale even suspect where catelyn stark had taken him? he wondered what cersei would do when she heard. the king could order him freed, but would robert listen to his queen or his hand? tyrion had no illusions about the king's love for his sister. if cersei kept her wits about her, she would insist the king sit in judgment of tyrion himself. even ned stark could scarcely object to that, not without impugning the honor of the king. and tyrion would be only too glad to take his chances in a trial. whatever murders they might lay at his door, the starks had no proof of anything so far as he could see. let them make their case before the iron throne and the lords of the land. it would be the end of them. if only cersei were clever enough to see that... tyrion lannister sighed. his sister was not without a certain low cunning, but her pride blinded her. she would see the insult in this, not the opportunity. and jaime was even worse, rash and headstrong and quick to anger. his brother never untied a knot when he could slash it in two with his sword. he wondered which of them had sent the footpad to silence the stark boy, and whether they had truly conspired at the death of lord arryn. if the old hand had been murdered, it was deftly and subtly done. men of his age died of sudden illness all the time. in contrast, sending some oaf with a stolen knife after brandon stark struck him as unbelievably clumsy. and wasn't that peculiar, come to think on it... tyrion shivered. now there was a nasty suspicion. perhaps the direwolf and the lion were not the only beasts in the woods, and if that was true, someone was using him as a catspaw. tyrion lannister hated being used. he would have to get out of here, and soon. his chances of overpowering mord were small to none, and no one was about to smuggle him a six-hundred-foot-long rope, so he would have to talk himself free. his mouth had gotten him into this cell; it could damn well get him out. tyrion pushed himself to his feet, doing his best to ignore the slope of the floor beneath him, with its ever-so-subtle tug toward the edge. he hammered on the door with a fist. mord! he shouted. turnkey! mord, i want you! he had to keep it up a good ten minutes before he heard footsteps. tyrion stepped back an instant before the door opened with a crash. making noise, mord growled, with blood in his eyes. dangling from one meaty hand was a leather strap, wide and thick, doubled over in his fist. never show them you're afraid, tyrion reminded himself. how would you like to be rich? he asked. mord hit him. he swung the strap backhand, lazily, but the leather caught tyrion high on the arm. the force of it staggered him, and the pain made him grit his teeth. no mouth, dwarf man, mord warned him. gold, tyrion said, miming a smile. casterly rock is full of gold... ahhhh... this time the blow was a forehand, and mord put more of his arm into the swing, making the leather crack and jump. it caught tyrion in the ribs and dropped him to his knees, wimpering. he forced himself to look up at the gaoler. as rich as the lannisters, he wheezed. that's what they say, mord- mord grunted. the strap whistled through the air and smashed tyrion full in the face. the pain was so bad he did not remember falling, but when he opened his eyes again he was on the floor of his cell. his ear was ringing, and his mouth was full of blood. he groped for purchase, to push himself up, and his fingers brushed against... nothing. tyrion snatched his hand back as fast as if it had been scalded, and tried his best to stop breathing. he had fallen right on the edge, inches from the blue. more to say? mord held the strap between his fists and gave it a sharp pull. the snap made tyrion jump. the turnkey laughed. he won't push me over, tyrion told himself desperately as he crawled away from the edge. catelyn stark wants me alive, he doesn't dare kill me. he wiped the blood off his lips with the back of his hand, grinned, and said, that was a stiff one, mord. the gaoler squinted at him, trying to decide if he was being mocked. i could make good use of a strong man like you. the strap flew at him, but this time tyrion was able to cringe away from it. he took a glancing blow to the shoulder, nothing more. gold, he repeated, scrambling backward like a crab, ,'more gold than you'll see here in a lifetime. enough to buy land, women, horses... you could be a lord. lord mord. tyrion hawked up a glob of blood and phlegm and spat it out into the sky. is no gold, mord said. he's listening! tyrion thought. they relieved me of my purse when they captured me, but the gold is still mine. catelyn stark might take a man prisoner, but she'd never stoop to rob him. that wouldn't be honorable. help me, and all the gold is yours. mord's strap licked out, but it was a halfhearted, desultory swing, slow and contemptuous. tyrion caught the leather in his hand and held it prisoned. there will be no risk to you. all you need do is deliver a message. the gaoler yanked his leather strap free of tyrion's grasp. message, he said, as if he had never heard the word before. his frown made deep creases in his brow. you heard me, my lord. only carry my word to your lady. tell her... at? at would possibly make lysa anyn relent? the inspiration came to tyrion lannister suddenly, tell her that i wish to confess my crimes. mord raised his arm and tyrion braced himself for another blow, but the turnkey hesitated. suspicion and greed warred in his eyes. he wanted that gold, yet he feared a trick; he had the look of a man who had often been tricked. is lie, he muttered darkly. dwarf man cheat me... i will put my promise in writing, tyrion vowed. some illiterates held writing in disdain; others seemed to have a superstitious reverence for the written word, as if it were some sort of magic. fortunately, mord was one of the latter. the turnkey lowered the strap. writing down gold. much gold. oh, much gold, tyrion assured him. the purse is just a taste, my friend. my brother wears armor of solid gold plate. in truth, jaime's armor was gilded steel, but this oaf would never know the difference. mord fingered his strap thoughtfully, but in the end, he relented and went to fetch paper and ink. when the letter was written, the gaoler frowned at it suspiciously. now deliver my message, tyrion urged. he was shivering in his sleep when they came for him, late that night. mord opened the door but kept his silence. ser vardis egen woke tyrion with the point of his boot. on your feet, imp. my lady wants to see you. tyrion rubbed the sleep from his eyes and put on a grimace he scarcely felt. no doubt she does, but what makes you think i wish to see her? ser vardis frowned. tyrion remembered him well from the years he had spent at king's landing as the captain of the hand's household guard. a square, plain face, silver hair, a heavy build, and no humor whatsoever. your wishes are not my concern. on your feet, or i'll have you carried. tyrion clambered awkwardly to his feet. a cold night, he said casually, and the high hall is so drafty. i don't wish to catch a chill. mord, if you would be so good, fetch my cloak. the gaoler squinted at him, face dull with suspicion. my cloak, tyrion repeated. the shadowskin you took from me for safekeeping. you recall. get him the damnable cloak, ser vardis said. mord did not dare grumble. he gave tyrion a glare that promised future retribution, yet he went for the cloak. when he draped it around his prisoner's neck, tyrion smiled. my thanks. i shall think of you whenever i wear it. he flung the trailing end of the long fur over his right shoulder, and felt warm for the first time in days. lead on, ser vardis. the high hall of the arryns was aglow with the light of fifty torches, burning in the sconces along the walls. the lady lysa wore black silk, with the moon-and- falcon sewn on her breast in pearls. since she did not look the sort to join the night's watch, tyrion could only imagine that she had decided mourning clothes were appropriate garb for a confession. her long auburn hair, woven into an elaborate braid, fell across her left shoulder. the taller throne beside her was empty; no doubt the little lord of the eyrie was off shaking in his sleep. tyrion was thankful for that much, at least. he bowed deeply and took a moment to glance around the hall. lady arryn had summoned her knights and retainers to hear his confession, as he had hoped. he saw ser brynden tully's craggy face and lord nestor royce's bluff one. beside nestor stood a younger man with fierce black side- whiskers who could only be his heir, ser albar. most of the principal houses of the vale were represented. tyrion noted ser lyn corbray, slender as a sword, lord hunter with his gouty legs, the widowed lady waynwood surrounded by her sons. others sported sigils he did not know; broken lance, green viper, burning tower, winged chalice. among the lords of the vale were several of his companions from the high road; ser rodrik cassel, pale from half-healed wounds, stood with ser willis wode beside him. marillion the singer had found a new woodharp. tyrion smiled; whatever happened here tonight, he did not wish it to happen in secret, and there was no one like a singer for spreading a story near and far. in the rear of the hall, bronn lounged beneath a pillar. the freerider's black eyes were fixed on tyrion, and his hand lay lightly on the pommel of his sword. tyrion gave him a long look, wondering... catelyn stark spoke first. you wish to confess your crimes, we are told. i do, my lady, tyrion answered. lysa arryn smiled at her sister. the sky cells always break them. the gods can see them there, and there is no darkness to hide in. he does not look broken to me, lady catelyn said. lady lysa paid her no mind. say what you will, she commanded tyrion. and now to roll the dice, he thought with another quick glance back at bronn. where to begin? i am a vile little man, i confess it. my crimes and sins are beyond counting, my lords and ladies. i have lain with whores, not once but hundreds of times. i have wished my own lord father dead, and my sister, our gracious queen, as well. behind him, someone chuckled. i have not always treated my servants with kindness. i have gambled. i have even cheated, i blush to admit. i have said many cruel and malicious things about the noble lords and ladies of the court. that drew outright laughter. once i- silence! lysa arryn's pale round face had turned a burning pink. what do you imagine you are doing, dwarf? tyrion cocked his head to one side. why, confessing my crimes, my lady- catelyn stark took a step forward. you are accused of sending a hired knife to slay my son bran in his bed, and of conspiring to murder lord jon arryn, the hand of the king. tyrion gave a helpless shrug. those crimes i cannot confess, i fear. i know nothing of any murders. lady lysa rose from her weirwood throne. i will not be made mock of. you have had your little jape, imp. i trust you enjoyed it. ser vardis, take him back to the dungeon... but this time find him a smaller cell, with a floor more sharply sloped. is this how justice is done in the vale? tyrion roared, so loudly that ser vardis froze for an instant. does honor stop at the bloody gate? you accuse me of crimes, i deny them, so you throw me into an open cell to freeze and starve. he lifted his head, to give them all a good look at the bruises mord had left on his face. where is the king's justice? is the eyrie not part of the seven kingdoms? i stand accused, you say. very well. i demand a trial! let me speak, and let my truth or falsehood be judged openly, in the sight of gods and men. a low murmuring filled the high hall. he had her, tyrion knew. he was highborn, the son of the most powerful lord in the realm, the brother of the queen. he could not be denied a trial. guardsmen in sky-blue cloaks had started toward tyrion, but ser vardis bid them halt and looked to lady lysa. her small mouth twitched in a petulant smile. if you are tried and found to be guilty of the crimes for which you stand accused, then by the king's own laws, you must pay with your life's blood. we keep no headsman in the eyrie, my lord of lannister. open the moon door. the press of spectators parted. a narrow weirwood door stood between two slender marble pillars, a crescent moon carved in the white wood. those standing closest edged backward as a pair of guardsmen marched through. one man removed the heavy bronze bars; the second pulled the door inward. their blue cloaks rose snapping from their shoulders, caught in the sudden gust of wind that came howling through the open door. beyond was the emptiness of the night sky, speckled with cold uncaring stars. behold the king's justice, lysa arryn said. torch flames fluttered like permons along the walls, and here and there the odd torch guttered out. lysa, i think this unwise, catelyn stark said as the black wind swirled around the hall. her sister ignored her. you want a trial, my lord of lannister. very well, a trial you shall have. my son will listen to whatever you care to say, and you shall hear his judgment. then you may leave... by one door or the other. she looked so pleased with herself, tyrion thought, and small wonder. how could a trial threaten her, when her weakling son was the lord judge? tyrion glanced at her moon door. mother, i want to see him fly! the boy had said. how many men had the snot-nosed little wretch sent through that door already? i thank you, my good lady, but i see no need to trouble lord robert, tyrion said politely. the gods know the truth of my innocence. i will have their verdict, not the judgment of men. i demand trial by combat. a storm of sudden laughter filled the high hall of the arryns. lord nestor royce snorted, ser willis chuckled, ser lyn corbray guffawed, and others threw back their heads and howled until tears ran down their faces. marillion clumsily plucked a gay note on his new woodharp with the fingers of his broken hand. even the wind seemed to whistle with derision as it came skirling through the moon door. lysa arryn's watery blue eyes looked uncertain. he had caught her off balance. you have that right, to be sure. the young knight with the green viper embroidered on his surcoat stepped forward and went to one knee. my lady, i beg the boon of championing your cause. the honor should be mine, old lord hunter said. for the love i bore your lord husband, let me avenge his death. my father served lord jon faithfully as high steward of the vale, ser albar royce boomed. let me serve his son in this. the gods favor the man with the just cause, said ser lyn corbray, yet often that turns out to be the man with the surest sword. we all know who that is. he smiled modestly. a dozen other men all spoke at once, clamoring to be heard. tyrion found it disheartening to realize so many strangers were eager to kill him. perhaps this had not been such a clever plan after all. lady lysa raised a hand for silence. i thank you, my lords, as i know my son would thank you if he were among us. no men in the seven kingdoms are as bold and true as the knights of the vale. would that i could grant you all this honor. yet i can choose only one. she gestured. ser vardis egen, you were ever my lord husband's good right hand. you shall be our champion. ser vardis had been singularly silent. my lady, he said gravely, sinking to one knee, pray give this burden to another, i have no taste for it. the man is no warrior. look at him. a dwarf, half my size and lame in the legs. it would be shameful to slaughter such a man and call it justice. oh, excellent, tyrion thought. i agree. lysa glared at him. you demanded a trial by combat. and now i demand a champion, such as you have chosen for yourself. my brother jaime will gladly take my part, i know. your precious kingslayer is hundreds of leagues from here, snapped lysa arryn. send a bird for him. i will gladly await his arrival. you will face ser vardis on the morrow. singer, tyrion said, turning to marillion, when you make a ballad of this, be certain you tell them how lady arryn denied the dwarf the right to a champion, and sent him forth lame and bruised and hobbling to face her finest knight. i deny you nothing! lysa arryn said, her voice peeved and shrill with irritation. name your champion, imp... if you think you can find a man to die for you. if it is all the same to you, i'd sooner find one to kill for me. tyrion looked over the long hall. no one moved. for a long moment he wondered if it had all been a colossal blunder. then there was a stirring in the rear of the chamber. i'll stand for the dwarf, bronn called out. they had taken shelter beneath a copse of aspens just off the high road. tyrion was gathering deadwood while their horses took water from a mountain stream. he stooped to pick up a splintered branch and examined it critically. will this do? i am not practiced at starting fires. morrec did that for me. a fire? bronn said, spitting. are you so hungry to die, dwarf? or have you taken leave of your senses? a fire will bring the clansmen down on us from miles around. i mean to survive this journey, lannister. and how do you hope to do that? tyrion asked. he tucked the branch under his arm and poked around through the sparse undergrowth, looking for more. his back ached from the effort of bending; they had been riding since daybreak, when a stone-faced ser lyn corbray had ushered them through the bloody gate and commanded them never to return. we have no chance of fighting our way back, bronn said, but two can cover more ground than ten, and attract less notice. the fewer days we spend in these mountains, the more like we are to reach the riverlands. ride hard and fast, i say. travel by night and hole up by day, avoid the road where we can, make no noise and light no fires. tyrion lannister sighed. a splendid plan, bronn. try it, as you like... and forgive me if i do not linger to bury you. you think to outlive me, dwarf? the sellsword grinned. he had a dark gap in his smile where the edge of ser vardis egen's shield had cracked a tooth in half. tyrion shrugged. riding hard and fast by night is a sure way to tumble down a mountain and crack your skull. i prefer to make my crossing slow and easy. i know you love the taste of horse, bronn, but if our mounts die under us this time, we'll be trying to saddle shadowcats... and if truth be told, i think the clans will find us no matter what we do. their eyes are all around us. he swept a gloved hand over the high, wind-carved crags that surrounded them. bronn grimaced. then we're dead men, lannister. if so, i prefer to die comfortable, tyrion replied. we need a fire. the nights are cold up here, and hot food will warm our bellies and lift our spirits. do you suppose there's any game to be had? lady lysa has kindly provided us with a veritable feast of salt beef, hard cheese, and stale bread, but i would hate to break a tooth so far from the nearest maester. i can find meat. beneath a fall of black hair, bronn's dark eyes regarded tyrion suspiciously. i should leave you here with your fool's fire. if i took your horse, i'd have twice the chance to make it through. what would you do then, dwarf? die, most like. tyrion stooped to get another stick. you don't think i'd do it? you'd do it in an instant, if it meant your life. you were quick enough to silence your friend chiggen when he caught that arrow in his belly. bronn had yanked back the man's head by the hair and driven the point of his dirk in under the ear, and afterward told catelyn stark that the other sellsword had died of his wound. he was good as dead, bronn said, and his moaning was bringing them down on us. chiggen would have done the same for me... and he was no friend, only a man i rode with. make no mistake, dwarf. i fought for you, but i do not love you. it was your blade i needed, tyrion said, not your love. he dumped his armful of wood on the ground. bronn grinned. you're bold as any sellsword, i'll give you that. how did you know i'd take your part? know? tyrion squatted awkwardly on his stunted legs to build the fire. i tossed the dice. back at the inn, you and chiggen helped take me captive. why? the others saw it as their duty, for the honor of the lords they served, but not you two. you had no lord, no duty, and precious little honor, so why trouble to involve yourselves? he took out his knife and whittled some thin strips of bark off one of the sticks he'd gathered, to serve as kindling. well, why do sellswords do anything? for gold. you were thinking lady catelyn would reward you for your help, perhaps even take you into her service. here, that should do, i hope. do you have a flint? bronn slid two fingers into the pouch at his belt and tossed down a flint. tyrion caught it in the air. my thanks, he said. the thing is, you did not know the starks. lord eddard is a proud, honorable, and honest man, and his lady wife is worse. oh, no doubt she would have found a coin or two for you when this was all over, and pressed it in your hand with a polite word and a look of distaste, but that's the most you could have hoped for. the starks look for courage and loyalty and honor in the men they choose to serve them, and if truth be told, you and chiggen were lowborn scum. tyrion struck the flint against his dagger, trying for a spark. nothing. bronn snorted. you have a bold tongue, little man. one day someone is like to cut it out and make you eat it. everyone tells me that. tyrion glanced up at the sellsword. did i offend you? my pardons... but you are scum, bronn, make no mistake. duty, honor, friendship, what's that to you? no, don't trouble yourself, we both know the answer. still, you're not stupid. once we reached the vale, lady stark had no more need of you... but i did, and the one thing the lannisters have never lacked for is gold. when the moment came to toss the dice, i was counting on your being smart enough to know where your best interest lay. happily for me, you did. he slammed stone and steel together again, fruitlessly. here, said bronn, squatting, i'll do it. he took the knife and flint from tyrion's hands and struck sparks on his first try. a curl of bark began to smolder. well done, tyrion said. scum you may be, but you're undeniably useful, and with a sword in your hand you're almost as good as my brother jaime. what do you want, bronn? gold? land? women? keep me alive, and you'll have it. bronn blew gently on the fire, and the flames leapt up higher. and if you die? why then, i'll have one mourner whose grief is sincere, tyrion said, grinning. the gold ends when i do. the fire was blazing up nicely. bronn stood, tucked the flint back into his pouch, and tossed tyrion his dagger. fair enough, he said. my sword's yours, then... but don't go looking for me to bend the knee and mlord you every time you take a shit. i'm no man's toady. nor any man's friend, tyrion said. i've no doubt you'd betray me as quick as you did lady stark, if you saw a profit in it. if the day ever comes when you're tempted to sell me out, remember this, bronn-itl match their price, whatever it is. i like living. and now, do you think you could do something about finding us some supper? take care of the horses, bronn said, unsheathing the long dirk he wore at his hip. he strode into the trees. an hour later the horses had been rubbed down and fed, the fire was crackling away merrily, and a haunch of a young goat was turning above the flames, spitting and hissing. all we lack now is some good wine to wash down our kid, tyrion said. that, a woman, and another dozen swords, bronn said. he sat cross-legged beside the fire, honing the edge of his longsword with an oilstone. there was something strangely reassuring about the rasping sound it made when he drew it down the steel. it will be full dark soon, the sellsword pointed out. i'll take first watch... for all the good it will do us. it might be kinder to let them kill us in our sleep. oh, i imagine they'll be here long before it comes to sleep. the smell of the roasting meat made tyrion' s mouth water. bronn watched him across the fire. you have a plan, he said flatly, with a scrape of steel on stone. a hope, call it, tyrion said. another toss of the dice. with our lives as the stake? tyrion shrugged. what choice do we have? he leaned over the fire and sawed a thin slice of meat from the kid. ahhhh, he sighed happily as he chewed. grease ran down his chin. a bit tougher than i'd like, and in want of spicing, but i'll not complain too loudly. if i were back at the eyrie, i'd be dancing on a precipice in hopes of a boiled bean. and yet you gave the turnkey a purse of gold, bronn said. a lannister always pays his debts. even mord had scarcely believed it when tyrion tossed him the leather purse. the gaoler's eyes had gone big as boiled eggs as he yanked open- the drawstring and beheld the glint of gold. i kept the silver, tyrion had told him with a crooked smile, but you were promised the gold, and there it is. it was more than a man like mord could hope to earn in a lifetime of abusing prisoners. and remember what i said, this is only a taste. if you ever grow tired of lady arryn's service, present yourself at casterly rock, and i'll pay you the rest of what i owe you. with golden dragons spilling out of both hands, mord had fallen to his knees and promised that he would do just that. bronn yanked out his dirk and pulled the meat from the fire. he began to carve thick chunks of charred meat off the bone as tyrion hollowed out two heels of stale bread to serve as trenchers. if we do reach the river, what will you do then? the sellsword asked as he cut. oh, a whore and a featherbed and a flagon of wine, for a start. tyrion held out his trencher, and bronn filled it with meat. and then to casterly rock or king's landing, i think. i have some questions that want answering, concerning a certain dagger. the sellsword chewed and swallowed. so you were telling it true? it was not your knife? tyrion smiled thinly. do i look a liar to you? by the time their bellies were full, the stars had come out and a halfmoon was rising over the mountains. tyrion spread his shadowskin cloak on the ground and stretched out with his saddle for a pillow. our friends are taking their sweet time. if i were them, i'd fear a trap, bronn said. why else would we be so open, if not to lure them in? tyrion chuckled. then we ought to sing and send them fleeing in terror. he began to whistle a tune. you're mad, dwarf, bronn said as he cleaned the grease out from under his nails with his dirk. where's your love of music, bronn? if it was music you wanted, you should have gotten the singer to champion you. tyrion grinned. that would have been amusing. i can just see him fending off ser vardis with his woodharp. he resumed his whistling. do you know this song? he asked. you hear it here and there, in inns and whorehouses. myrish. 'the seasons of my love.' sweet and sad, if you understand the words. the first girl i ever bedded used to sing it, and i've never been able to put it out of my head. tyrion gazed up at the sky. it was a clear cold night and the stars shone down upon the mountains as bright and merciless as truth. i met her on a night like this, he heard himself saying. jaime and i were riding back from lannisport when we heard a scream, and she came running out into the road with two men dogging her heels, shouting threats. my brother unsheathed his sword and went after them, while i dismounted to protect the girl. she was scarcely a year older than i was, dark- haired, slender, with a face that would break your heart. it certainly broke mine. lowborn, halfstarved, unwashed... yet lovely. they'd torn the rags she was wearing half off her back, so i wrapped her in my cloak while jaime chased the men into the woods. by the time he came trotting back, i'd gotten a name out of her, and a story. she was a crofter's child, orphaned when her father died of fever, on her way to... well, nowhere, really. jaime was all in a lather to hunt down the men. it was not often outlaws dared prey on travelers so near to casterly rock, and he took it as an insult. the girl was too frightened to send off by herself, though, so i offered to take her to the closest inn and feed her while my brother rode back to the rock for help. she was hungrier than i would have believed. we finished two whole chickens and part of a third, and drank a flagon of wine, talking. i was only thirteen, and the wine went to my head, i fear. the next thing i knew, i was sharing her bed. if she was shy, i was shyer. i'll never know where i found the courage. when i broke her maidenhead, she wept, but afterward she kissed me and sang her little song, and by morning i was in love. you? bronn's voice was amused. absurd, isn't it? tyrion began to whistle the song again. i married her, he finally admitted. a lannister of casterly rock wed to a crofter's daughter, bronn said. how did you manage that? oh, you'd be astonished at what a boy can make of a few lies, fifty pieces of silver, and a drunken septon. i dared not bring my bride home to casterly rock, so i set her up in a cottage of her own, and for a fortnight we played at being man and wife. and then the septon sobered and confessed all to my lord father. tyrion was surprised at how desolate it made him feel to say it, even after all these years. perhaps he was just tired. that was the end of my marriage. he sat up and stared at the dying fire, blinking at the light. he sent the girl away? he did better than that, tyrion said. first he made my brother tell me the truth. the girl was a whore, you see. jaime arranged the whole affair, the road, the outlaws, all of it. he thought it was time i had a woman. he paid double for a maiden, knowing it would be my first time. after jaime had made his confession, to drive home the lesson, lord tywin brought my wife in and gave her to his guards. they paid her fair enough. a silver for each man, how many whores command that high a price? he sat me down in the corner of the barracks and bade me watch, and at the end she had so many silvers the coins were slipping through her fingers and rolling on the floor, she... the smoke was stinging his eyes. tyrion cleared his throat and turned away from the fire, to gaze out into darkness. lord tywin had me go last, he said in a quiet voice. and he gave me a gold coin to pay her, because i was a lannister, and worth more. after a time he heard the noise again, the rasp of steel on stone as bronn sharpened his sword. thirteen or thirty or three, i would have killed the man who did that to me. tyrion swung around to face him. you may get that chance one day. remember what i told you. a lannister always pays his debts. he yawned. i think i will try and sleep. wake me if we're about to die. he rolled himself up in the shadowskin and shut his eyes. the ground was stony and cold, but after a time tyrion lannister did sleep. he dreamt of the sky cell. this time he was the gaoler, not the prisoner, big, with a strap in his hand, and he was hitting his father, driving him back, toward the abyss... tyrion. bronn's warning was low and urgent. tyrion was awake in the blink of an eye. the fire had burned down to embers, and the shadows were creeping in all around them. bronn had raised himself to one knee, his sword in one hand and his dirk in the other. tyrion held up a hand: stay still, it said. come share our fire, the night is cold, he called out to the creeping shadows. i fear we've no wine to offer you, but you're welcome to some of our goat. all movement stopped. tyrion saw the glint of moonlight on metal. our mountain, a voice called out from the trees, deep and hard and unfriendly. our goat. your goat, tyrion agreed. who are you? when you meet your gods, a different voice replied, say it was gunthor son of gurn of the stone crows who sent you to them. a branch cracked underfoot as he stepped into the light; a thin man in a horned helmet, armed with a long knife. and shagga son of dolf that was the first voice, deep and deadly. a boulder shifted to their left, and stood, and became a man. massive and slow and strong he seemed, dressed all in skins, with a club in his right hand and an axe in his left. he smashed them together as he lumbered closer. other voices called other names, conn and torrek and jaggot and more that tyrion forgot the instant he heard them; ten at least. a few had swords and knives; others brandished pitchforks and scythes and wooden spears. he waited until they were done shouting out their names before he gave them answer. i am tyrion son of tywin, of the clan lannister, the lions of the rock. we will gladly pay you for the goat we ate. what do you have to give us, tyrion son of tywin? asked the one who named himself gunthor, who seemed to be their chief. there is silver in my purse, tyrion told them. this hauberk i wear is large for me, but it should fit conn nicely, and the battle-axe i carry would suit shagga 's mighty hand far better than that wood- axe he holds. the halfman would pay us with our own coin, said conn. conn speaks truly, gunthor said. your silver is ours. your horses are ours. your hauberk and your battle-axe and the knife at your belt, those are ours too. you have nothing to give us but your lives. how would you like to die, tyrion son of tywin? in my own bed, with a belly full of wine and a maiden's mouth around my cock, at the age of eighty, he replied. the huge one, shagga, laughed first and loudest. the others seemed less amused. conn, take their horses, gunthor commanded. kill the other and seize the halfinan. he can milk the goats and make the mothers laugh. bronn sprang to his feet. who dies first? no! tyrion said sharply. gunthor son of gurn, hear me. my house is rich and powerful. if the stone crows will see us safely through these mountains, my lord father will shower you with gold. the gold of a lowland lord is as worthless as a halfman's promises, gunthor said. haifa man i may be, tyrion said, yet i have the courage to face my enemies. what do the stone crows do, but hide behind rocks and shiver with fear as the knights of the vale ride by? shagga gave a roar of anger and clashed club against axe. jaggot poked at tyrion' s face with the fire-hardened point of a long wooden spear. he did his best not to flinch. are these the best weapons you could steal? he said. good enough for killing sheep, perhaps... if the sheep do not fight back. my father's smiths shit better steel. little boyman, shagga roared, will you mock my axe after i chop off your manhood and feed it to the goats? but gunthor raised a hand. no. i would hear his words. the mothers go hungry, and steel fills more mouths than gold. what would you give us for your lives, tyrion son of tywin? swords? lances? mail? all that, and more, gunthor son of gurn, tyrion lannister replied, smiling. i will give you the vale of arryn. chella daughter of cheyk of the black ears had gone ahead to scout, and it was she who brought back word of the army at the crossroads. by their fires i call them twenty thousand strong, she said. their banners are red, with a golden lion. your father? bronn asked. or my brother jaime, tyrion said. we shall know soon enough. he surveyed his ragged band of brigands: near three hundred stone crows, moon brothers, black ears, and burned men, and those just the seed of the army he hoped to grow. gunthor son of gurn was raising the other clans even now. he wondered what his lord father would make of them in their skins and bits of stolen steel. if truth be told, he did not know what to make of them himself. was he their commander or their captive? most of the time, it seemed to be a little of both. it might be best if i rode down alone, he suggested. best for tyrion son of tywin, said ulf, who spoke for the moon brothers. shagga glowered, a fearsome sight to see. shagga son of dolf likes this not. shagga will go with the boyman, and if the boyman lies, shagga will chop off his manhood- -and feed it to the goats, yes, tyrion said wearily. shagga, i give you my word as a lannister, i will return. why should we trust your word? chella was a small hard woman, flat as a boy, and no fool. lowland lords have lied to the clans before. you wound me, chella, tyrion said. here i thought we had become such friends. but as you will. you shall ride with me, and shagga and conn for the stone crows, ulf for the moon brothers, and timett son of timett for the burned men. the clansmen exchanged wary looks as he named them. the rest shall wait here until i send for you. try not to kill and maim each other while i'm gone. he put his heels to his horse and trotted off, giving them no choice but to follow or be left behind. either was fine with him, so long as they did not sit down to talk for a day and a night. that was the trouble with the clans; they had an absurd notion that every man's voice should be heard in council, so they argued about everything, endlessly. even their women were allowed to speak. small wonder that it had been hundreds of years since they last threatened the vale with anything beyond an occasional raid. tyrion meant to change that. bronn rode with him. behind them-after a quick bit of grumbling-the five clansmen followed on their undersize garrons, scrawny things that looked like ponies and scrambled up rock walls like goats. the stone crows rode together, and chella and ulf stayed close as well, as the moon brothers and black ears had strong bonds between them. timett son of timett rode alone. every clan in the mountains of the moon feared the burned men, who mortified their flesh with fire to prove their courage and (the others said) roasted babies at their feasts. and even the other burned men feared timett, who had put out his own left eye with a white-hot knife when he reached the age of manhood. tyrion gathered that it was more customary for a boy to burn off a nipple, a finger, or (if he was truly brave, or truly mad) an ear. timett's fellow burned men were so awed by his choice of an eye that they promptly named him a red hand, which seemed to be some sort of a war chief. i wonder what their king burned off, tyrion said to bronn when he heard the tale. grinning, the sellsword had tugged at his crotch... but even bronn kept a respectful tongue around timett. if a man was mad enough to put out his own eye, he was unlikely to be gentle to his enemies. distant watchers peered down from towers of unmortared stone as the party descended through the foothills, and once tyrion saw a raven take wing. where the high road twisted between two rocky outcrops, they came to the first strong point. a low earthen wall four feet high closed off the road, and a dozen crossbowmen manned the heights. tyrion halted his followers out of range and rode to the wall alone. who commands here? he shouted up. the captain was quick to appear, and even quicker to give them an escort when he recognized his lord's son. they trotted past blackened fields and burned holdfasts, down to the riverlands and the green fork of the trident. tyrion saw no bodies, but the air was full of ravens and carrion crows; there had been fighting here, and recently. haifa league from the crossroads, a barricade of sharpened stakes had been erected, manned by pikemen and archers. behind the line, the camp spread out to the far distance. thin fingers of smoke rose from hundreds of cookfires, mailed men sat under trees and honed their blades, and familiar banners fluttered from staffs thrust into the muddy ground. a party of mounted horsemen rode forward to challenge them as they approached the stakes. the knight who led them wore silver armor inlaid with amethysts and a striped purple-and-silver cloak. his shield bore a unicorn sigil, and a spiral horn two feet long jutted up from the brow of his horsehead helm. tyrion reined up to greet him. ser flement. ser flement brax lifted his visor. tyrion, he said in astonishment. my lord, we all feared you dead, or... he looked at the clansmen uncertainly. these... companions of yours... bosom friends and loyal retainers, tyrion said. where will i find my lord father? he has taken the inn at the crossroads for his quarters. tyrion laughed. the inn at the crossroads! perhaps the gods were just after all. i will see him at once. as you say, my lord. ser flement wheeled his horse about and shouted commands. three rows of stakes were pulled from the ground to make a hole in the line. tyrion led his party through. lord tywin's camp spread over leagues. chella's estimate of twenty thousand men could not be far wrong. the common men camped out in the open, but the knights had thrown up tents, and some of the high lords had erected pavilions as large as houses. tyrion spied the red ox of the presters, lord crakehall's brindled boar, the burning tree of marbrand, the badger of lydden. knights called out to him as he cantered past, and men-at-arms gaped at the clansmen in open astonishment. shagga was gaping back; beyond a certainty, he had never seen so many men, horses, and weapons in all his days. the rest of the mountain brigands did a better job of guarding their faces, but tyrion had no doubts that they were full as much in awe. better and better. the more impressed they were with the power of the lannisters, the easier they would be to command. the inn and its stables were much as he remembered, though little more than tumbled stones and blackened foundations remained where the rest of the village had stood. a gibbet had been erected in the yard, and the body that swung there was covered with ravens. at tyrion's approach they took to the air, squawking and flapping their black wings. he dismounted and glanced up at what remained of the corpse. the birds had eaten her lips and eyes and most of her cheeks, baring her stained red teeth in a hideous smile. a room, a meal, and a flagon of wine, that was all i asked, he reminded her with a sigh of reproach. boys emerged hesitantly from the stables to see to their horses. shagga did not want to give his up. the lad won't steal your mare, tyrion assured him. he only wants to give her some oats and water and brush out her coat. shagga' s coat could have used a good brushing too, but it would have been less than tactful to mention it. you have my word, the horse will not be harmed. glaring, shagga let go his grip on the reins. this is the horse of shagga son of dolf, he roared at the stableboy. if he doesn't give her back, chop off his manhood and feed it to the goats, tyrion promised. provided you can find some. a pair of house guards in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms stood under the inn's sign, on either side of the door. tyrion recognized their captain. my father? in the common room, m'lord. my men will want meat and mead, tyrion told him. see that they get it. he entered the inn, and there was father. tywin lannister, lord of casterly rock and warden of the west, was in his middle fifties, yet hard as a man of twenty. even seated, he was tall, with long legs, broad shoulders, a flat stomach. his thin arms were corded with muscle. when his once-thick golden hair had begun to recede, he had commanded his barber to shave his head; lord tywin did not believe in half measures. he razored his lip and chin as well, but kept his side-whiskers, two great thickets of wiry golden hair that covered most of his cheeks from ear to jaw. his eyes were a pale green, flecked with gold. a fool more foolish than most had once jested that even lord tywin's shit was flecked with gold. some said the man was still alive, deep in the bowels of casterly rock. ser kevan lannister, his father's only surviving brother, was sharing a flagon of ale with lord tywin when tyrion entered the common room. his uncle was portly and balding, with a close- cropped yellow beard that followed the line of his massive jaw. ser kevan saw him first. tyrion, he said in surprise. uncle, tyrion said, bowing. and my lord father. what a pleasure to find you here. lord tywin did not stir from his chair, but he did give his dwarf son a long, searching look. i see that the rumors of your demise were unfounded. sorry to disappoint you, father, tyrion said. no need to leap up and embrace me, i wouldn't want you to strain yourself. he crossed the room to their table, acutely conscious of the way his stunted legs made him waddle with every step. whenever his father's eyes were on him, he became uncomfortably aware of all his deformities and shortcomings. kind of you to go to war for me, he said as he climbed into a chair and helped himself to a cup of his father's ale. by my lights, it was you who started this, lord tywin replied. your brother jaime would never have meekly submitted to capture at the hands of a woman. that's one way we differ, jaime and i. he's taller as well, you may have noticed. his father ignored the sally. the honor of our house was at stake. i had no choice but to ride. no man sheds lannister blood with impunity... hear me roar, tyrion said, grinning. the lannister words. truth be told, none of my blood was actually shed, although it was a close thing once or twice. morrec and jyck were killed. i suppose you will be wanting some new men. don't trouble yourself, father, i've acquired a few of my own. he tried a swallow of the ale. it was brown and yeasty, so thick you could almost chew it. very fine, in truth. a pity his father had hanged the innkeep. how is your war going? his uncle answered. well enough, for the nonce. ser edmure had scattered small troops of men along his borders to stop our raiding, and your lord father and i were able to destroy most of them piecemeal before they could regroup. your brother has been covering himself with glory, his father said. he smashed the lords vance and piper at the golden tooth, and met the massed power of the tullys under the walls of riverrun. the lords of the trident have been put to rout. ser edmure tully was taken captive, with many of his knights and bannermen. lord blackwood led a few survivors back to riverrun, where jaime has them under siege. the rest fled to their own strongholds. your father and i have been marching on each in turn, ser kevan said. with lord blackwood gone, raventree fell at once, and lady whent yielded harrenhal for want of men to defend it. ser gregor burnt out the pipers and the brackens... leaving you unopposed? tyrion said. not wholly, ser kevan said. the mallisters still hold seagard and walder frey is marshaling his levies at the twins. no matter, lord tywin said. frey only takes the field when the scent of victory is in the air, and all he smells now is ruin. and jason mallister lacks the strength to fight alone. once jaime takes riverrun, they will both be quick enough to bend the knee. unless the starks and the arryns come forth to oppose us, this war is good as won. i would not fret overmuch about the arryns if i were you, tyrion said. the starks are another matter. lord eddard- -is our hostage, his father said. he will lead no armies while he rots in a dungeon under the red keep. no, ser kevan agreed, but his son has called the banners and sits at moat cailin with a strong host around him. no sword is strong until it's been tempered, lord tywin declared. the stark boy is a child. no doubt he likes the sound of warhorns well enough, and the sight of his banners fluttering in the wind, but in the end it comes down to butcher's work. i doubt he has the stomach for it. things had gotten interesting while he'd been away, tyrion reflected. and what is our fearless monarch doing whilst all this 'butcher's work' is being done? he wondered. how has my lovely and persuasive sister gotten robert to agree to the imprisonment of his dear friend ned? robert baratheon is dead, his father told him. your nephew reigns in king's landing. that did take tyrion aback. my sister, you mean. he took another gulp of ale. the realm would be a much different place with cersei ruling in place of her husband. if you have a mind to make yourself of use, i will give you a command, his father said. marq piper and karyl vance are loose in our rear, raiding our lands across the red fork. tyrion made a tsking sound. the gall of them, fighting back. ordinarily i'd be glad to punish such rudeness, father, but the truth is, i have pressing business elsewhere. do you? lord tywin did not seem awed. we also have a pair of ned stark's afterthoughts making a nuisance of themselves by harassing my foraging parties. beric dondarrion, some young lordling with delusions of valor. he has that fat jape of a priest with him, the one who likes to set his sword on fire. do you think you might be able to deal with them as you scamper off? without making too much a botch of it? tyrion wiped his mouth with the back of his hand and smiled. father, it warms my heart to think that you might entrust me with... what, twenty men? fifty? are you sure you can spare so many? well, no matter. if i should come across thoros and lord beric, i shall spank them both. he climbed down from his chair and waddled to the sideboard, where a wheel of veined white cheese sat surrounded by fruit. first, though, i have some promises of my own to keep, he said as he sliced off a wedge. i shall require three thousand helms and as many hauberks, plus swords, pikes, steel spearheads, maces, battleaxes, gauntlets, gorgets, greaves, breastplates, wagons to carry all this- the door behind him opened with a crash, so violently that tyrion almost dropped his cheese. ser kevan leapt up swearing as the captain of the guard went flying across the room to smash against the hearth. as he tumbled down into the cold ashes, his lion helm askew, shagga snapped the man's sword in two over a knee thick as a tree trunk, threw down the pieces, and lumbered into the common room. he was preceded by his stench, riper than the cheese and overpowering in the closed space. little redcape, he snarled, when next you bare steel on shagga son of dolf, i will chop off your manhood and roast it in the fire. what, no goats? tyrion said, taking a bite of cheese. the other clansmen followed shagga into the common room, bronn with them. the sellsword gave tyrion a rueful shrug. who might you be? lord tywin asked, cool as snow. they followed me home, father, tyrion explained. may i keep them? they don't eat much. no one was smiling. by what right do you savages intrude on our councils? demanded ser kevan. savages, lowlander? conn might have been handsome if you washed him. we are free men, and free men by rights sit on all war councils. which one is the lion lord? chella asked. they are both old men, announced timett son of timett, who had yet to see his twentieth year. ser kevan' s hand went to his sword hilt, but his brother placed two fingers on his wrist and held him fast. lord tywin seemed unperturbed. tyrion, have you forgotten your courtesies? kindly acquaint us with our... honored guests. tyrion licked his fingers. with pleasure, he said. the fair maid is chella daughter of cheyk of the black ears. i'm no maid, chella protested. my sons have taken fifty ears among them. may they take fifty more. tyrion waddled away from her. this is conn son of coratt. shagga son of dolf is the one who looks like casterly rock with hair. they are stone crows. here is ulf son of umar of the moon brothers, and here timett son of timett, a red hand of the burned men. and this is bronn, a sellsword of no particular allegiance. he has already changed sides twice in the short time i've known him, you and he ought to get on famously, father. to bronn and the clansmen he said, may i present my lord father, tywin son of tytos of house lannister, lord of casterly rock, warden of the west, shield of lannisport, and once and future hand of the king. lord tywin rose, dignified and correct. even in the west, we know the prowess of the warrior clans of the mountains of the moon. what brings you down from your strongholds, my lords? horses, said shagga. a promise of silk and steel, said timett son of timett. tyrion was about to tell his lord father how he proposed to reduce the vale of arryn to a smoking wasteland, but he was never given the chance. the door banged open again. the messenger gave tyrion' s clansmen a quick, queer look as he dropped to one knee before lord tywin. my lord, he said, ser addam bid me tell you that the stark host is moving down the causeway. lord tywin lannister did not smile. lord tywin never smiled, but tyrion had learned to read his father's pleasure all the same, and it was there on his face. so the wolfling is leaving his den to play among the lions, he said in a voice of quiet satisfaction. splendid. return to ser addam and tell him to fall back. he is not to engage the northerners until we arrive, but i want him to harass their flanks and draw them farther south. it will be as you command. the rider took his leave. we are well situated here, ser kevan pointed out. close to the ford and ringed by pits and spikes. if they are coming south, i say let them come, and break themselves against us. the boy may hang back or lose his courage when he sees our numbers, lord tywin replied. the sooner the starks are broken, the sooner i shall be free to deal with stannis baratheon. tell the drummers to beat assembly, and send word to jaime that i am marching against robb stark. as you will, ser kevan said. tyrion watched with a grim fascination as his lord father turned next to the half-wild clansmen. it is said that the men of the mountain clans are warriors without fear. it is said truly, conn of the stone crows answered. and the women, chella added. ride with me against my enemies, and you shall have all my son promised you, and more, lord tywin told them. would you pay us with our own coin? ulf son of umar said. why should we need the father's promise, when we have the son's? i said nothing of need, lord tywin replied. my words were courtesy, nothing more. you need not join us. the men of the winterlands are made of iron and ice, and even my boldest knights fear to face them. oh, deftly done, tyrion thought, smiling crookedly. the burned men fear nothing. timett son of timett will ride with the lions. wherever the burned men go, the stone crows have been there first, conn declared hotly. we ride as well. shagga son of dolf will chop off their manhoods and feed them to the crows. we will ride with you, lion lord, chella daughter of cheyk agreed, but only if your halfman son goes with us. he has bought his breath with promises. until we hold the steel he has pledged us, his life is ours. lord tywin turned his go id- flecked eyes on his son. joy, tyrion said with a resigned smile. on a hill overlooking the kingsroad, a long trestle table of rough-hewn pine had been erected beneath an elm tree and covered with a golden cloth. there, beside his pavilion, lord tywin took his evening meal with his chief knights and lords bannermen, his great crimson- and- gold standard waving overhead from a lofty pike. tyrion arrived late, saddlesore, and sour, all too vividly aware of how amusing he must look as he waddled up the slope to his father. the day's march had been long and tiring. he thought he might get quite drunk tonight. it was twilight, and the air was alive with drifting fireflies. the cooks were serving the meat course: five suckling pigs, skin seared and crackling, a different fruit in every mouth. the smell made his mouth water. my pardons, he began, taking his place on the bench beside his uncle. perhaps i'd best charge you with burying our dead, tyrion, lord tywin said. if you are as late to battle as you are to table, the fighting will all be done by the time you arrive. oh, surely you can save me a peasant or two, father, tyrion replied. not too many, i wouldn't want to be greedy. he filled his wine cup and watched a serving man carve into the pig. the crisp skin crackled under his knife, and hot juice ran from the meat. it was the loveliest sight tyrion had seen in ages. ser addam's outriders say the stark host has moved south from the twins, his father reported as his trencher was filled with slices of pork. lord frey's levies have joined them. they are likely no more than a day's march north of us. please, father, tyrion said. i'm about to eat. does the thought of facing the stark boy unman you, tyrion? your brother jaime would be eager to come to grips with him. i'd sooner come to grips with that pig. robb stark is not half so tender, and he never smelled as good. lord lefford, the sour bird who had charge of their stores and supplies, leaned forward. i hope your savages do not share your reluctance, else we've wasted our good steel on them. my savages will put your steel to excellent use, my lord, tyrion replied. when he had told lefford he needed arms and armor to equip the three hundred men ulf had fetched down out of the foothills, you would have thought he'd asked the man to turn his virgin daughters over to their pleasure. lord lefford frowned. i saw that great hairy one today, the one who insisted that he must have two battle-axes, the heavy black steel ones with twin crescent blades. shagga likes to kill with either hand, tyrion said as a trencher of steaming pork was laid in front of him. he still had that wood-axe of his strapped to his back. shagga is of the opinion that three axes are even better than two. tyrion reached a thumb and forefinger into the salt dish, and sprinkled a healthy pinch over his meat. ser kevan leaned forward. we had a thought to put you and your wildlings in the vanguard when we come to battle. ser kevan seldom had a thought that lord tywin had not had first. tyrion had skewered a chunk of meat on the point of his dagger and brought it to his mouth. now he lowered it. the vanguard? he repeated dubiously. either his lord father had a new respect for tyrion' s abilities, or he'd decided to rid himself of his embarrassing get for good. tyrion had the gloomy feeling he knew which. they seem ferocious enough, ser kevan said. ferocious? tyrion realized he was echoing his uncle like a trained bird. his father watched, judging him, weighing every word. let me tell you how ferocious they are. last night, a moon brother stabbed a stone crow over a sausage. so today as we made camp three stone crows seized the man and opened his throat for him. perhaps they were hoping to get the sausage back, i couldn't say. bronn managed to keep shagga from chopping off the dead man's cock, which was fortunate, but even so ulf is demanding blood money, which conn and shagga refuse to pay. when soldiers lack discipline, the fault lies with their lord commander, his father said. his brother jaime had always been able to make men follow him eagerly, and die for him if need be. tyrion lacked that gift. he bought loyalty with gold, and compelled obedience with his name. a bigger man would be able to put the fear in them, is that what you're saying, my lord? lord tywin lannister turned to his brother. if my son's men will not obey his commands, perhaps the vanguard is not the place for him. no doubt he would be more comfortable in the rear, guarding our baggage train. do me no kindnesses, father, he said angrily. if you have no other command to offer me, i'll lead your van. lord tywin studied his dwarf son. i said nothing about command. you will serve under ser gregor. tyrion took one bite of pork, chewed a moment, and spit it out angrily. i find i am not hungry after all, he said, climbing awkwardly off the bench. pray excuse me, my lords. lord tywin inclined his head, dismissing him. tyrion turned and walked away. he was conscious of their eyes on his back as he waddled down the hill. a great gust of laughter went up from behind him, but he did not look back. he hoped they all choked on their suckling pigs. dusk had settled, turning all the banners black. the lannister camp sprawled for miles between the river and the kingsroad. in amongst the men and the horses and the trees, it was easy to get lost, and tyrion did. he passed a dozen great pavilions and a hundred cookfires. fireflies drifted amongst the tents like wandering stars. he caught the scent of garlic sausage, spiced and savory, so tempting it made his empty stomach growl. away in the distance, he heard voices raised in some bawdy song. a giggling woman raced past him, naked beneath a dark cloak, her drunken pursuer stumbling over tree roots. farther on, two spearmen faced each other across a little trickle of a stream, practicing their thrust- and-parry in the fading light, their chests bare and slick with sweat. no one looked at him. no one spoke to him. no one paid him any mind. he was surrounded by men sworn to house lannister, a vast host twenty thousand strong, and yet he was alone. when he heard the deep rumble of shagga's laughter booming through the dark, he followed it to the stone crows in their small corner of the night. conn son of coratt waved a tankard of ale. tyrion halfman! come, sit by our fire, share meat with the stone crows. we have an ox. i can see that, conn son of coratt. the huge red carcass was suspended over a roaring fire, skewered on a spit the size of a small tree. no doubt it was a small tree. blood and grease dripped down into the flames as two stone crows turned the meat. i thank you. send for me when the ox is cooked. from the look of it, that might even be before the battle. he walked on. each clan had its own cookfire; black ears did not eat with stone crows, stone crows did not eat with moon brothers, and no one ate with burned men. the modest tent he had coaxed out of lord lefford's stores had been erected in the center of the four fires. tyrion found bronn sharing a skin of wine with the new servants. lord tywin had sent him a groom and a body servant to see to his needs, and even insisted he take a squire. they were seated around the embers of a small cookfire. a girl was with them; slim, dark-haired, no more than eighteen by the look of her. tyrion studied her face for a moment, before he spied fishbones in the ashes. what did you eat? trout, m'lord, said his groom. bronn caught them. trout, he thought. suckling pig. damn my father. he stared mournfully at the bones, his belly rumbling. his squire, a boy with the unfortunate name of podrick payne, swallowed whatever he had been about to say. the lad was a distant cousin to ser ilyn payne, the king's headsman... and almost as quiet, although not for want of a tongue. tyrion had made him stick it out once, just to be certain. definitely a tongue, he had said. someday you must learn to use it. at the moment, he did not have the patience to try and coax a thought out of the lad, whom he suspected had been inflicted on him as a cruel jape. tyrion turned his attention back to the girl. is this her? he asked bronn. she rose gracefully and looked down at him from the lofty height of five feet or more. it is, m'lord, and she can speak for herself, if it please you. he cocked his head to one side. i am tyrion, of house lannister. men call me the imp. my mother named me shae. men call me... often. bronn laughed, and tyrion had to smile. into the tent, shae, if you would be so kind. he lifted the flap and held it for her. inside, he knelt to light a candle. the life of a soldier was not without certain compensations. wherever you have a camp, you are certain to have camp followers. at the end of the day's march, tyrion had sent bronn back to find him a likely whore. i would prefer one who is reasonably young, with as pretty a face as you can find, he had said. if she has washed sometime this year, i shall be glad. if she hasn't, wash her. be certain that you tell her who i am, and warn her of what i am. jyck had not always troubled to do that. there was a look the girls got in their eyes sometimes when they first beheld the lordling they'd been hired to pleasure... a took that tyrion lannister did not ever care to see again. he lifted the candle and looked her over. bronn had done well enough; she was doe-eyed and slim, with small firm breasts and a smile that was by turns shy, insolent, and wicked. he liked that. shall i take my gown off, m'lord? she asked. in good time. are you a maiden, shae? if it please you, m'lord, she said demurely. what would please me would be the truth of you, girl. aye, but that will cost you double. tyrion decided they would get along splendidly. i am a lannister. gold i have in plenty, and you'll find me generous... but i'll want more from you than what you've got between your legs, though i'll want that too. you'll share my tent, pour my wine, laugh at my jests, rub the ache from my legs after each day's ride... and whether i keep you a day or a year, for so long as we are together you will take no other men into your bed. fair enough. she reached down to the hem of her thin roughspun gown and pulled it up over her head in one smooth motion, tossing it aside. there was nothing underneath but shae. if he don't put down that candle, m'lord will burn his fingers. tyrion put down the candle, took her hand in his, and pulled her gently to him. she bent to kiss him. her mouth tasted of honey and cloves, and her fingers were deft and practiced as they found the fastenings of his clothes. when he entered her, she welcomed him with whispered endearments and small, shuddering gasps of pleasure. tyrion suspected her delight was feigned, but she did it so well that it did not matter. that much truth he did not crave. he had needed her, tyrion realized afterward, as she lay quietly in his arms. her or someone like her. it had been nigh on a year since he'd lain with a woman, since before he had set out for winterfell in company with his brother and king robert. he could well die on the morrow or the day after, and if he did, he would sooner go to his grave thinking of shae than of his lord father, lysa arryn, or the lady catelyn stark. he could feel the softness of her breasts pressed against his arm as she lay beside him. that was a good feeling. a song filled his head. softly, quietly, he began to whistle. what's that, m'lord? shae murmured against him. nothing, he told her. a song i learned as a boy, that's all. go to sleep, sweetling. when her eyes were closed and her breathing deep and steady, tyrion slid out from beneath her, gently, so as not to disturb her sleep. naked, he crawled outside, stepped over his squire, and walked around behind his tent to make water. bronn was seated cross-legged under a chestnut tree, near where they'd tied the horses. he was honing the edge of his sword, wide awake; the sellsword did not seem to sleep like other men. where did you find her? tyrion asked him as he pissed. i took her from a knight. the man was loath to give her up, but your name changed his thinking somewhat... that, and my dirk at his throat. splendid, tyrion said dryly, shaking off the last drops. i seem to recall saying find me a whore, not make me an enemy. the pretty ones were all claimed, bronn said. i'll be pleased to take her back if you'd prefer a toothless drab. tyrion limped closer to where he sat. my lord father would call that insolence, and send you to the mines for impertinence. good for me you're not your father, bronn replied. i saw one with boils all over her nose. would you like her? what, and break your heart? tyrion shot back. i shall keep shae. did you perchance note the name of this knight you took her from? i'd rather not have him beside me in the battle. bronn rose, cat-quick and cat-graceful, turning his sword in his hand. you'll have me beside you in the battle, dwarf. tyrion nodded. the night air was warm on his bare skin. see that i survive this battle, and you can name your reward. bronn tossed the longsword from his right hand to his left, and tried a cut. who'd want to kill the likes of you? my lord father, for one. he's put me in the van. i'd do the same. a small man with a big shield. you'll give the archers fits. i find you oddly cheering, tyrion said. i must be mad. bronn sheathed his sword. beyond a doubt. when tyrion returned to his tent, shae rolled onto her elbow and murmured sleepily, i woke and m'lord was gone. mtord is back now. he slid in beside her. her hand went between his stunted legs, and found him hard. yes he is, she whispered, stroking him. he asked her about the man bronn had taken her from, and she named the minor retainer of an insignificant lordling. you need not fear his like, m'lord, the girl said, her fingers busy at his cock. he is a small man. and what am i, pray? tyrion asked her. a giant? oh, yes, she purred, my giant of lannister. she mounted him then, and for a time, she almost made him believe it. tyrion went to sleep smiling... ...and woke in darkness to the blare of trumpets. shae was shaking him by the shoulder. mtord, she whispered. wake up, m'lord. i'm frightened. groggy, he sat up and threw back the blanket. the horns called through the night, wild and urgent, a cry that said huny huny huny. he heard shouts, the clatter of spears, the whicker of horses, though nothing yet that spoke to him of fighting. my lord father's trumpets, he said. battle assembly. i thought stark was yet a day's march away. shae shook her head, lost. her eyes were wide and white. groaning, tyrion lurched to his feet and pushed his way outside, shouting for his squire. wisps of pale fog drifted through the night, long white fingers off the river. men and horses blundered through the predawn chill; saddles were being cinched, wagons loaded, fires extinguished. the trumpets blew again: huny huny huny. knights vaulted onto snorting coursers while men-at-arms buckled their sword belts as they ran. when he found pod, the boy was snoring softly. tyrion gave him a sharp poke in the ribs with his toe. my armor, he said, and be quick about it. bronn came trotting out of the mists, already armored and ahorse, wearing his battered halfhelm. do you know what's happened? tyrion asked him. the stark boy stole a march on us, bronn said. he crept down the kingsroad in the night, and now his host is less than a mile north of here, forming up in battle array. huny, the trumpets called, huny huny huny. see that the clansmen are ready to ride. tyrion ducked back inside his tent. where are my clothes? he barked at shae. there. no, the leather, damn it. yes. bring me my boots. by the time he was dressed, his squire had laid out his armor, such that it was. tyrion owned a fine suit of heavy plate, expertly crafted to fit his misshapen body. alas, it was safe at casterly rock, and he was not. he had to make do with oddments assembled from lord lefford's wagons: mail hauberk and coif, a dead knight's gorget, lobstered greaves and gauntlets and pointed steel boots. some of it was ornate, some plain; not a bit of it matched, or fit as it should. his breastplate was meant for a bigger man; for his oversize head, they found a huge bucket- shaped greathelm topped with a foot- long triangular spike. shae helped pod with the buckles and clasps. if i die, weep for me, tyrion told the whore. how will you know? you'll be dead. i'll know. i believe you would. shae lowered the greathelm down over his head, and pod fastened it to his gorget. tyrion buckled on his belt, heavy with the weight of shortsword and dirk. by then his groom had brought up his mount, a formidable brown courser armored as heavily as he was. he needed help to mount; he felt as though he weighed a thousand stone. pod handed him up his shield, a massive slab of heavy ironwood banded with steel. lastly they gave him his battle-axe. shae stepped back and looked him over. mtord looks fearsome. mtord looks a dwarf in mismatched armor, tyrion answered sourly, but i thank you for the kindness. podrick, should the battle go against us, see the lady safely home. he saluted her with his axe, wheeled his horse about, and trotted off. his stomach was a hard knot, so tight it pained him. behind, his servants hurriedly began to strike his tent. pale crimson fingers fanned out to the east as the first rays of the sun broke over the horizon. the western sky was a deep purple, speckled with stars. tyrion wondered whether this was the last sunrise he would ever see... and whether wondering was a mark of cowardice. did his brother jaime ever contemplate death before a battle? a warhorn sounded in the far distance, a deep mournful note that chilled the soul. the clansmen climbed onto their scrawny mountain horses, shouting curses and rude jokes. several appeared to be drunk. the rising sun was burning off the drifting tendrils of fog as tyrion led them off. what grass the horses had left was heavy with dew, as if some passing god had scattered a bag of diamonds over the earth. the mountain men fell in behind him, each clan arrayed behind its own leaders. in the dawn light, the army of lord tywin lannister unfolded like an iron rose, thorns gleaming. his uncle would lead the center. ser kevan had raised his standards above the kingsroad. quivers hanging from their belts, the foot archers arrayed themselves into three long lines, to east and west of the road, and stood calmly stringing their bows. between them, pikemen formed squares; behind were rank on rank of men-at-arms with spear and sword and axe. three hundred heavy horse surrounded ser kevan and the lords bannermen lefford, lydden, and serrett with all their sworn retainers. the right wing was all cavalry, some four thousand men, heavy with the weight of their armor. more than three quarters of the knights were there, massed together like a great steel fist. ser addam marbrand had the command. tyrion saw his banner unfurl as his standardbearer shook it out; a burning tree, orange and smoke. behind him flew ser flement's purple unicorn, the brindled boar of crakehall, the bantam rooster of swyft, and more. his lord father took his place on the hill where he had slept. around him, the reserve assembled; a huge force, half mounted and half foot, five thousand strong. lord tywin almost always chose to command the reserve; he would take the high ground and watch the battle unfold below him, committing his forces when and where they were needed most. even from afar, his lord father was resplendent. tywin lannister's battle armor put his son jaime's gilded suit to shame. his greatcloak was sewn from countless layers of cloth-of-gold, so heavy that it barely stirred even when he charged, so large that its drape covered most of his stallion's hindquarters when he took the saddle. no ordinary clasp would suffice for such a weight, so the greatcloak was held in place by a matched pair of miniature lionesses crouching on his shoulders, as if poised to spring. their mate, a male with a magnificent mane, reclined atop lord tywin' s greathelm, one paw raking the air as he roared. all three lions were wrought in gold, with ruby eyes. his armor was heavy steel plate, enameled in a dark crimson, greaves and gauntlets inlaid with ornate gold scrollwork. his rondels were golden sunbursts, all his fastenings were gilded, and the red steel was burnished to such a high sheen that it shone like fire in the light of the rising sun. tyrion could hear the rumble of the foemen's drums now. he remembered robb stark as he had last seen him, in his father's high seat in the great hall of winterfell, a sword naked and shining in his hands. he remembered how the direwolves had come at him out of the shadows, and suddenly he could see them again, snarling and snapping, teeth bared in his face. would the boy bring his wolves to war with him? the thought made him uneasy. the northerners would be exhausted after their long sleepless march. tyrion wondered what the boy had been thinking. did he think to take them unawares while they slept? small chance of that; whatever else might be said of him, tywin lannister was no man's fool. the van was massing on the left. he saw the standard first, three black dogs on a yellow field. ser gregor sat beneath it, mounted on the biggest horse tyrion had ever seen. bronn took one look at him and grinned. always follow a big man into battle. tyrion threw him a hard look. and why is that? they make such splendid targets. that one, he'll draw the eyes of every bowman on the field. laughing, tyrion regarded the mountain with fresh eyes. i confess, i had not considered it in that light. clegane had no splendor about him; his armor was steel plate, dull grey, scarred by hard use and showing neither sigil nor ornament. he was pointing men into position with his blade, a two- handed greatsword that ser gregor waved about with one hand as a lesser man might wave a dagger. any man runs, i'll cut him down myself, he was roaring when he caught sight of tyrion. imp! take the left. hold the river. if you can. the left of the left. to turn their flank, the starks would need horses that could run on water. tyrion led his men toward the riverbank. look, he shouted, pointing with his axe. the river. a blanket of pale mist still clung to the surface of the water, the murky green current swirling past underneath. the shallows were muddy and choked with reeds. that river is ours. whatever happens, keep close to the water. never lose sight of it. let no enemy come between us and our river. if they dirty our waters, hack off their cocks and feed them to the fishes. shagga had an axe in either hand. he smashed them together and made them ring. halfman! he shouted. other stone crows picked up the cry, and the black ears and moon brothers as well. the burned men did not shout, but they rattled their swords and spears. halfman! halfman! halfman!  tyrion turned his courser in a circle to look over the field. the ground was rolling and uneven here; soft and muddy near the river, rising in a gentle slope toward the kingsroad, stony and broken beyond it, to the cast. a few trees spotted the hillsides, but most of the land had been cleared and planted. his heart pounded in his chest in time to the drums, and under his layers of leather and steel his brow was cold with sweat. he watched ser gregor as the mountain rode up and down the line, shouting and gesticulating. this wing too was all cavalry, but where the right was a mailed fist of knights and heavy lancers, the vanguard was made up of the sweepings of the west: mounted archers in leather jerkins, a swarming mass of undisciplined freeriders and sellswords, fieldhands on plow horses armed with scythes and their fathers' rusted swords, half- trained boys from the stews of lannisport and tyrion and his mountain clansmen. crow food, bronn muttered beside him, giving voice to what tyrion had left unsaid. he could only nod. had his lord father taken leave of his senses? no pikes, too few bowmen, a bare handful of knights, the ill-armed and unarmored, commanded by an unthinking brute who led with his rage... how could his father expect this travesty of a battle to hold his left? he had no time to think about it. the drums were so near that the beat crept under his skin and set his hands to twitching. bronn drew his longsword, and suddenly the enemy was there before them, boiling over the tops of the hills, advancing with measured tread behind a wall of shields and pikes. gods be damned, look at them all, tyrion thought, though he knew his father had more men on the field. their captains led them on armored warhorses, standard-bearers riding alongside with their banners. he glimpsed the bull moose of the hornwoods, the karstark sunburst, lord cerwyn's battle-axe, and the mailed fist of the glovers... and the twin towers of frey, blue on grey. so much for his father's certainty that lord walder would not bestir himself. the white of house stark was seen everywhere, the grey direwolves seeming to run and leap as the banners swirled and streamed from the high staffs. where is the boy? tyrion wondered. a warhorn blew. haroooooooooooooooooooooooo, it cried, its voice as long and low and chilling as a cold wind from the north. the lannister trumpets answered, da-da da-da da- daaaaaaaaa, brazen and defiant, yet it seemed to tyrion that they sounded somehow smaller, more anxious. he could feel a fluttering in his bowels, a queasy liquid feeling; he hoped he was not going to die sick. as the horns died away, a hissing filled the air; a vast flight of arrows arched up from his right, where the archers stood flanking the road. the northerners broke into a run, shouting as they came, but the lannister arrows fell on them like hail, hundreds of arrows, thousands, and shouts turned to screams as men stumbled and went down. by then a second flight was in the air, and the archers were fitting a third arrow to their bowstrings. the trumpets blared again, da-daaa da-daaa da-da da-da dadaaaaaaa. ser gregor waved his huge sword and bellowed a command, and a thousand other voices screamed back at him. tyrion put his spurs to his horse and added one more voice to the cacophony, and the van surged forward. the river! he shouted at his clansmen as they rode. remember, hew to the river. he was still leading when they broke a canter, until chella gave a bloodcurdling shriek and galloped past him, and shagga howled and followed. the clansmen charged after them, leaving tyrion in their dust. a crescent of enemy spearmen had formed ahead, a double hedgehog bristling with steel, waiting behind tall oaken shields marked with the sunburst of karstark. gregor clegane was the first to reach them, leading a wedge of armored veterans. half the horses shied at the last second, breaking their charge before the row of spears. the others died, sharp steel points ripping through their chests. tyrion saw a dozen men go down. the mountain's stallion reared, lashing out with iron-shod hooves as a barbed spearhead raked across his neck. maddened, the beast lunged into the ranks. spears thrust at him from every side, but the shield wall broke beneath his weight. the northerners stumbled away from the animal's death throes. as his horse fell, snorting blood and biting with his last red breath, the mountain rose untouched, laying about him with his two-handed greatsword. shagga went bursting through the gap before the shields could close, other stone crows hard behind him. tyrion shouted, burned men! moon brothers! after me! but most of them were ahead of him. he glimpsed timett son of timett vault free as his mount died under him in full stride, saw a moon brother impaled on a karstark spear, watched conn's horse shatter a man's ribs with a kick. a flight of arrows descended on them; where they came from he could not say, but they fell on stark and lannister alike, rattling off armor or finding flesh. tyrion lifted his shield and hid beneath it. the hedgehog was crumbling, the northerners reeling back under the impact of the mounted assault. tyrion saw shagga catch a spearman full in the chest as the fool came on at a run, saw his axe shear through mail and leather and muscle and lungs. the man was dead on his feet, the axehead lodged in his breast, yet shagga rode on, cleaving a shield in two with his left-hand battle-axe while the corpse was bouncing and stumbling bonelessly along on his right. finally the dead man slid off. shagga smashed the two axes together and roared. by then the enemy was on him, and tyrion's battle shrunk to the few feet of ground around his horse. a man-at-arms thrust at his chest and his axe lashed out, knocking the spear aside. the man danced back for another try, but tyrion spurred his horse and rode right over him. bronn was surrounded by three foes, but he lopped the head off the first spear that came at him, and raked his blade across a second man's face on his backslash. a thrown spear came hurtling at tyrion from the left and lodged in his shield with a woody chunk. he wheeled and raced after the thrower, but the man raised his own shield over his head. tyrion circled around him, raining axe blows down on the wood. chips of oak went flying, until the northerner lost his feet and slipped, failing flat on his back with his shield on top of him. he was below the reach of tyrion's axe and it was too much bother to dismount, so he left him there and rode after another man, taking him from behind with a sweeping downcut that sent a jolt of impact up his arm. that won him a moment's respite. reining up, he looked for the river. there it was, off to the right. somehow he had gotten turned around. a burned man rode past, slumped against his horse. a spear had entered his belly and come out through his back. he was past any help, but when tyrion saw one of the northerners run up and make a grab for his reins, he charged. his quarry met him sword in hand. he was tall and spare, wearing a long chainmail hauberk and gauntlets of lobstered steel, but he'd lost his helm and blood ran down into his eyes from a gash across his forehead. tyrion aimed a swipe at his face, but the tall man slammed it aside. dwarf, he screamed. die. he turned in a circle as tyrion rode around him, hacking at his head and shoulders. steel rang on steel, and tyrion soon realized that the tall man was quicker and stronger than he was. where in the seven hells was bronn? die, the man grunted, chopping at him savagely. tyrion barely got his shield up in time, and the wood seemed to explode inward under the force of the blow. the shattered pieces fell away from his arm. die! the swordsman bellowed, shoving in close and whanging tyrion across the temple so hard his head rang. the blade made a hideous scraping sound as he drew it back over the steel. the tall man grinned... until tyrion's destrier bit, quick as a snake, laying his cheek bare to the bone. then he screamed. tyrion buried his axe in his head. you die, he told him, and he did. as he wrenched the blade free, he heard a shout. 'eddard! a voice rang out. for eddard and winterfell! the knight came thundering down on him, swinging the spiked ball of a morningstar around his head. their warhorses slammed together before tyrion could so much as open his mouth to shout for bronn. his right elbow exploded with pain as the spikes punched through the thin metal around the joint. his axe was gone, as fast as that. he clawed for his sword, but the morningstar was circling again, coming at his face. a sickening crunch, and he was falling. he did not recall hitting the ground, but when he looked up there was only sky above him. he rolled onto his side and tried to find his feet, but pain shuddered through him and the world throbbed. the knight who had felled him drew up above him. tyrion the imp, he boomed down. you are mine. do you yield, lannister? yes, tyrion thought, but the word caught in his throat. he made a croaking sound and fought his way to his knees, fumbling for a weapon. his sword, his dirk, anything... do you yield? the knight loomed overhead on his armored warhorse. man and horse both seemed immense. the spiked ball swung in a lazy circle. tyrion's hands were numb, his vision blurred, his scabbard empty. yield or die, the knight declared, his flail whirling faster and faster. tyrion lurched to his feet, driving his head into the horse's belly. the animal gave a hideous scream and reared. it tried to twist away from the agony, a shower of blood and viscera poured down over tyrion's face, and the horse fell like an avalanche. the next he knew, his visor was packed with mud and something was crushing his foot. he wriggled free, his throat so tight he could scarce talk. yield... he managed to croak faintly. yes, a voice moaned, thick with pain. tyrion scraped the mud off his helm so he could see again. the horse had fallen away from him, onto its rider. the knight's leg was trapped, the arm he'd used to break his fall twisted at a grotesque angle. yield, he repeated. fumbling at his belt with his good hand, he drew a sword and flung it at tyrion's feet. i yield, my lord. dazed, the dwarf knelt and lifted the blade. pain hammered through his elbow when he moved his arm. the battle seemed to have moved beyond him. no one remained on his part of the field save a large number of corpses. ravens were already circling and landing to feed. he saw that ser kevan had brought up his center in support of the van; his huge mass of pikemen had pushed the northerners back against the hills. they were struggling on the slopes, pikes thrusting against another wall of shields, these oval and reinforced with iron studs. as he watched, the air filled with arrows again, and the men behind the oak wall crumbled beneath the murderous fire. i believe you are losing, ser, he told the knight under the horse. the man made no reply. the sound of hooves coming up behind him made him whirl, though he could scarcely lift the sword he held for the agony in his elbow. bronn reined up and looked down on him. small use you turned out to be, tyrion told him. it would seem you did well enough on your own, bronn answered. you've lost the spike off your helm, though. tyrion groped at the top of the greathelm. the spike had snapped off clean. i haven't lost it. i know just where it is. do you see my horse? by the time they found it, the trumpets had sounded again and lord tywin's reserve came sweeping up along the river. tyrion watched his father fly past, the crimson- and-go id banner of lannister rippling over his head as he thundered across the field. five hundred knights surrounded him, sunlight flashing off the points of their lances. the remnants of the stark lines shattered like glass beneath the hammer of their charge. with his elbow swollen and throbbing inside his armor, tyrion made no attempt to join the slaughter. he and bronn went looking for his men. many he found among the dead. ulf son of umar lay in a pool of congealing blood, his arm gone at the elbow, a dozen of his moon brothers sprawled around him. shagga was slumped beneath a tree, riddled with arrows, conn's head in his lap. tyrion thought they were both dead, but as he dismounted, shagga opened his eyes and said, they have killed conn son of coratt. handsome conn had no mark but for the red stain over his breast, where the spear thrust had killed him. when bronn pulled shagga to his feet, the big man seemed to notice the arrows for the first time. he plucked them out one by one, cursing the holes they had made in his layers of mail and leather, and yowling like a babe at the few that had buried themselves in his flesh. chella daughter of cheyk rode up as they were yanking arrows out of shagga, and showed them four ears she had taken. timett they discovered looting the bodies of the slain with his burned men. of the three hundred clansmen who had ridden to battle behind tyrion lannister, perhaps half had survived. he left the living to look after the dead, sent bronn to take charge of his captive knight, and went alone in search of his father. lord tywin was seated by the river, sipping wine from a jeweled cup as his squire undid the fastenings on his breastplate. a fine victory, ser kevan said when he saw tyrion. your wild men fought well. his father's eyes were on him, pale green flecked with gold, so cool they gave tyrion a chill. did that surprise you, father? he asked. did it upset your plans? we were supposed to be butchered, were we not? lord tywin drained his cup, his face expressionless. i put the least disciplined men on the left, yes. i anticipated that they would break. robb stark is a green boy, more like to be brave than wise. i'd hoped that if he saw our left collapse, he might plunge into the gap, eager for a rout. once he was fully committed, ser kevan's pikes would wheel and take him in the flank, driving him into the river while i brought up the reserve. and you thought it best to place me in the midst of this carnage, yet keep me ignorant of your plans. a feigned rout is less convincing, his father said, and i am not inclined to trust my plans to a man who consorts with sellswords and savages. a pity my savages ruined your dance. tyrion pulled off his steel gauntlet and let it fall to the ground, wincing at the pain that stabbed up his arm. the stark boy proved more cautious than i expected for one of his years, lord tywin admitted, but a victory is a victory. you appear to be wounded. tyrion's right arm was soaked with blood. good of you to notice, father, he said through clenched teeth. might i trouble you to send for your maesters? unless you relish the notion of having a one-armed dwarf for a son... an urgent shout of lord tywin! turned his father's head before he could reply. tywin lannister rose to his feet as ser addam marbrand leapt down off his courser. the horse was lathered and bleeding from the mouth. ser addam dropped to one knee, a rangy man with dark copper hair that fell to his shoulders, armored in burnished bronzed steel with the fiery tree of his house etched black on his breastplate. my liege, we have taken some of their commanders. lord cerwyn, ser wylis manderly, harrion karstark, four freys. lord hornwood is dead, and i fear roose bolton has escaped us. and the boy? lord tywin asked. ser addam hesitated. the stark boy was not with them, my lord. they say he crossed at the twins with the great part of his horse, riding hard for riverrun. a green boy, tyrion remembered, more like to be brave than wise. he would have laughed, if he hadn't hurt so much. they have my son, tywin lannister said. they do, my lord. the messenger's voice was dulled by exhaustion. on the breast of his torn surcoat, the brindled boar of crake hall was half-obscured by dried blood. one of your sons, tyrion thought. he took a sip of wine and said not a word, thinking of jaime. when he lifted his arm, pain shot through his elbow, reminding him of his own brief taste of battle. he loved his brother, but he would not have wanted to be with him in the whispering wood for all the gold in casterly rock. his lord father's assembled captains and bannermen had fallen very quiet as the courier told his tale. the only sound was the crackle and hiss of the log burning in the hearth at the end of the long, drafty common room. after the hardships of the long relentless drive south, the prospect of even a single night in an inn had cheered tyrion mightily... though he rather wished it had not been this inn again, with all its memories. his father had set a grueling pace, and it had taken its toll. men wounded in the battle kept up as best they could or were abandoned to fend for themselves. every morning they left a few more by the roadside, men who went to sleep never to wake. every afternoon a few more collapsed along the way. and every evening a few more deserted, stealing off into the dusk. tyrion had been half-tempted to go with them. he had been upstairs, enjoying the comfort of a featherbed and the warmth of shae's body beside him, when his squire had woken him to say that a rider had arrived with dire news of riverrun. so it had all been for nothing. the rush south, the endless forced marches, the bodies left beside the road... all for naught. robb stark had reached riverrun days and days ago. how could this happen? ser harys swyft moaned. how? even after the whispering wood, you had riverrun ringed in iron, surrounded by a great host... what madness made ser jaime decide to split his men into three separate camps? surely he knew how vulnerable that would leave them? better than you, you chinless craven, tyrion thought. jaime might have lost riverrun, but it angered him to hear his brother slandered by the likes of swyft, a shameless lickspittle whose greatest accomplishment was marrying his equally chinless daughter to ser kevan, and thereby attaching himself to the lannisters. i would have done the same, his uncle responded, a good deal more calmly than tyrion might have. you have never seen riverrun, ser harys, or you would know that jaime had little choice in the matter. the castle is situated at the end of the point of land where the tumblestone flows into the red fork of the trident. the rivers form two sides of a triangle, and when danger threatens, the tullys open their sluice gates upstream to create a wide moat on the third side, turning riverrun into an island. the walls rise sheer from the water, and from their towers the defenders have a commanding view of the opposite shores for many leagues around. to cut off all the approaches, a besieger must needs place one camp north of the tumblestone, one south of the red fork, and a third between the rivers, west of the moat. there is no other way, none. ser kevan speaks truly, my lords, the courier said. we'd built palisades of sharpened stakes around the camps, yet it was not enough, not with no warning and the rivers cutting us off from each other. they came down on the north camp first. no one was expecting an attack. marq piper had been raiding our supply trains, but he had no more than fifty men. ser jaime had gone out to deal with them the night before... well, with what we thought was them. we were told the stark host was east of the green fork, marching south... and your outriders? ser gregor clegane's face might have been hewn from rock. the fire in the hearth gave a somber orange cast to his skin and put deep shadows in the hollows of his eyes. they saw nothing? they gave you no warning? the bloodstained messenger shook his head. our outriders had been vanishing. marq piper's work, we thought. the ones who did come back had seen nothing. a man who sees nothing has no use for his eyes, the mountain declared. cut them out and give them to your next outrider. tell him you hope that four eyes might see better than two... and if not, the man after him will have six. lord tywin lannister turned his face to study ser gregor. tyrion saw a glimmer of gold as the light shone off his father's pupils, but he could not have said whether the look was one of approval or disgust. lord tywin was oft quiet in council, preferring to listen before he spoke, a habit tyrion himself tried to emulate. yet this silence was uncharacteristic even for him, and his wine was untouched. you said they came at night, ser kevan prompted. the man gave a weary nod. the blackfish led the van, cutting down our sentries and clearing away the palisades for the main assault. by the time our men knew what was happening, riders were pouring over the ditch banks and galloping through the camp with swords and torches in hand. i was sleeping in the west camp, between the rivers. when we heard the fighting and saw the tents being fired, lord brax led us to the rafts and we tried to pole across, but the current pushed us downstream and the tullys started flinging rocks at us with the catapults on their walls. i saw one raft smashed to kindling and three others overturned, men swept into the river and drowned... and those who did make it across found the starks waiting for them on the riverbanks. ser flement brax wore a silver-and-purple tabard and the look of a man who cannot comprehend what he has just heard. my lord father- sorry, my lord, the messenger said. lord brax was clad in plate-and-mail when his raft overturned. he was very gallant. he was a fool, tyrion thought, swirling his cup and staring down into the winy depths. crossing a river at night on a crude raft, wearing armor, with an enemy waiting on the other side- if that was gallantry, he would take cowardice every time. he wondered if lord brax had felt especially gallant as the weight of his steel pulled him under the black water. the camp between the rivers was overrun as well, the messenger was saying. while we were trying to cross, more starks swept in from the west, two columns of armored horse. i saw lord umber's giant-in-chains and the mallister eagle, but it was the boy who led them, with a monstrous wolf running at his side. i wasn't there to see, but it's said the beast killed four men and ripped apart a dozen horses. our spearmen formed up a shieldwall and held against their first charge, but when the tullys saw them engaged, they opened the gates of riverrun and tytos blackwood led a sortie across the drawbridge and took them in the rear. gods save us, lord lefford swore. greatjon umber fired the siege towers we were building, and lord blackwood found ser edmure tully in chains among the other captives, and made off with them all. our south camp was under the command of ser forley prester. he retreated in good order when he saw that the other camps were lost, with two thousand spears and as many bowmen, but the tyroshi sellsword who led his freeriders struck his banners and went over to the foe. curse the man. his uncle kevan sounded more angry than surprised. i warned jaime not to trust that one. a man who fights for coin is loyal only to his purse. lord tywin wove his fingers together under his chin. only his eyes moved as he listened. his bristling golden side-whiskers framed a face so still it might have been a mask, but tyrion could see tiny beads of sweat dappling his father's shaven head. how could it happen? ser harys swyft wailed again. ser jaime taken, the siege broken... this is a catastrophe! ser addarn marbrand said, i am sure we are all grateful to you for pointing out the obvious, ser harys. the question is, what shall we do about it? what can we do? jaime's host is all slaughtered or taken or put to flight, and the starks and the tullys sit squarely across our line of supply. we are cut off from the west! they can march on casterly rock if they so choose, and what's to stop them? my lords, we are beaten. we must sue for peace. peace? tyrion swirled his wine thoughtfully, took a deep draft, and hurled his empty cup to the floor, where it shattered into a thousand pieces. there's your peace, ser harys. my sweet nephew broke it for good and all when he decided to ornament the red keep with lord eddard's head. you'll have an easier time drinking wine from that cup than you will convincing robb stark to make peace now. he's winning... or hadn't you noticed? two battles do not make a war, ser addam insisted. we are far from lost. i should welcome the chance to try my own steel against this stark boy. perhaps they would consent to a truce, and allow us to trade our prisoners for theirs, offered lord lefford. unless they trade three-for-one, we still come out light on those scales, tyrion said acidly. and what are we to offer for my brother? lord eddard's rotting head? i had heard that queen cersei has the hand's daughters, lefford said hopefully. if we give the lad his sisters back... ser addam snorted disdainfully. he would have to be an utter ass to trade jaime lannister's life for two girls. then we must ransom ser jaime, whatever it costs, lord lefford said. tyrion rolled his eyes. if the starks feel the need for gold, they can melt down jaime's armor. if we ask for a truce, they will think us weak, ser addarn argued. we should march on them at once. surely our friends at court could be prevailed upon to join us with fresh troops, said ser harys. and someone might return to casterly rock to raise a new host. lord tywin lannister rose to his feet. they have my son, he said once more, in a voice that cut through the babble like a sword through suet. leave me. all of you. ever the soul of obedience, tyrion rose to depart with the rest, but his father gave him a look. not you, tyrion. remain. and you as well, kevan. the rest of you, out. tyrion eased himself back onto the bench, startled into speechlessness. ser kevan crossed the room to the wine casks. uncle, tyrion called, if you would be so kind- here. his father offered him his cup, the wine untouched. now tyrion truly was nonplussed. he drank. lord tywin seated himself. you have the right of it about stark. alive, we might have used lord eddard to forge a peace with winterfell and riverrun, a peace that would have given us the time we need to deal with robert's brothers. dead his hand curled into a fist. madness. rank madness. joff s only a boy, tyrion pointed out. at his age, i committed a few follies of my own. his father gave him a sharp look. i suppose we ought to be grateful that he has not yet married a whore. tyrion sipped at his wine, wondering how lord tywin would look if he flung the cup in his face. our position is worse than you know, his father went on. it would seem we have a new king. ser kevan looked poleaxed. a new-who? what have they done to joffrey? the faintest flicker of distaste played across lord tywin's thin lips. nothing... yet. my grandson still sits the iron throne, but the eunuch has heard whispers from the south. renly baratheon wed margaery tyrell at highgarden this fortnight past, and now he has claimed the crown. the bride's father and brothers have bent the knee and sworn him their swords. those are grave tidings. when ser kevan frowned, the furrows in his brow grew deep as canyons. my daughter commands us to ride for king's landing at once, to defend the red keep against king renly and the knight of flowers. his mouth tightened. commands us, mind you. in the name of the king and council. how is king joffrey taking the news? tyrion asked with a certain black amusement. cersei has not seen fit to tell him yet, lord tywin said. she fears he might insist on marching against renly himself. with what army? tyrion asked. you don't plan to give him this one, i hope? he talks of leading the city watch, lord tywin said. if he takes the watch, he'll leave the city undefended, ser kevan said. and with lord stannis on dragonstone... yes. lord tywin looked down at his son. i had thought you were the one made for motley, tyrion, but it would appear that i was wrong. why, father, said tyrion, that almost sounds like praise. he leaned forward intently. what of stannis? he's the elder, not renly. how does he feel about his brother's claim? his father frowned. i have felt from the beginning that stannis was a greater danger than all the others combined. yet he does nothing. oh, varys hears his whispers. stannis is building ships, stannis is hiring sellswords, stannis is bringing a shadowbinder from asshai. what does it mean? is any of it true? he gave an irritated shrug. kevan, bring us the map. ser kevan did as he was bid. lord tywin unrolled the leather, smoothing it flat. jaime has left us in a bad way. roose bolton and the remnants of his host are north of us. our enemies hold the twins and moat cailin. robb stark sits to the west, so we cannot retreat to lannisport and the rock unless we choose to give battle. jaime is taken, and his army for all purposes has ceased to exist. thoros of myr and beric dondarrion continue to plague our foraging parties. to our east we have the arryns, stannis baratheon sits on dragonstone, and in the south highgarden and storm's end are calling their banners. tyrion smiled crookedly. take heart, father. at least rhaegar targaryen is still dead. i had hoped you might have more to offer us than japes, tyrion, lord tywin lannister said. ser kevan frowned over the map, forehead creasing. robb stark will have edmure tully and the lords of the trident with him now. their combined power may exceed our own. and with roose bolton behind us... tywin, if we remain here, i fear we might be caught between three armies. i have no intention of remaining here. we must finish our business with young lord stark before renly baratheon can march from highgarden. bolton does not concern me. he is a wary man, and we made him warier on the green fork. he will be slow to give pursuit. so... on the morrow, we make for harrenhal. kevan, i want ser addam's outriders to screen our movements. give him as many men as he requires, and send them out in groups of four. i will have no vanishings. as you say, my lord, but... why harrenhal? that is a grim, unlucky place. some call it cursed. let them, lord tywin said. unleash ser gregor and send him before us with his reavers. send forth vargo hoat and his freeriders as well, and ser amory lorch. each is to have three hundred horse. tell them i want to see the riverlands afire from the gods eye to the red fork. they will burn, my lord, ser kevan said, rising. i shall give the commands. he bowed and made for the door. when they were alone, lord tywin glanced at tyrion. your savages might relish a bit of rapine. tell them they may ride with vargo hoat and plunder as they like-goods, stock, women, they may take what they want and burn the rest. telling shagga and timett how to pillage is like telling a rooster how to crow, tyrion commented, but i should prefer to keep them with me. uncouth and unruly they might be, yet the wildlings were his, and he trusted them more than any of his father's men. he was not about to hand them over. then you had best learn to control them. i will not have the city plundered. the city? tyrion was lost. what city would that be? king's landing. i am sending you to court. it was the last thing tyrion lannister would ever have anticipated. he reached for his wine, and considered for a moment as he sipped. and what am i to do there? rule, his father said curtly tyrion hooted with laughter. my sweet sister might have a word or two to say about that! let her say what she likes. her son needs to be taken in hand before he ruins us all. i blame those jackanapes on the council-our friend petyr, the venerable grand maester, and that cockless wonder lord varys. what sort of counsel are they giving joffrey when he lurches from one folly to the next? whose notion was it to make this janos slynt a lord? the man's father was a butcher, and they grant him harrenhal. harrenhal, that was the seat of kings! not that he will ever set foot inside it, if i have a say. i am told he took a bloody spear for his sigil. a bloody cleaver would have been my choice. his father had not raised his voice, yet tyrion could see the anger in the gold of his eyes. and dismissing selmy, where was the sense in that? yes, the man was old, but the name of barristan the bold still has meaning in the realm. he lent honor to any man he served. can anyone say the same of the hound? you feed your dog bones under the table, you do not seat him beside you on the high bench. he pointed a finger at tyrion's face. if cersei cannot curb the boy, you must. and if these councillors are playing us false... tyrion knew. spikes, he sighed. heads. walls. i see you have taken a few lessons from me. more than you know, father, tyrion answered quietly. he finished his wine and set the cup aside, thoughtful. a part of him was more pleased than he cared to admit. another part was remembering the battle upriver, and wondering if he was being sent to hold the left again. why me? he asked, cocking his head to one side. why not my uncle? why not ser addam or ser flement or lord serrett? why not a... bigger man? lord tywin rose abruptly. you are my son. that was when he knew. you have given him up for lost, he thought. you bloody bastard, you think jaime's good as dead, so i'm all you have left. tyrion wanted to slap him, to spit in his face, to draw his dagger and cut the heart out of him and see if it was made of old hard gold, the way the smallfolks said. yet he sat there, silent and still. the shards of the broken cup crunched beneath his father's heels as lord tywin crossed the room. one last thing, he said at the door. you will not take the whore to court. tyrion sat alone in the common room for a long while after his father was gone. finally he climbed the steps to his cozy garret beneath the bell tower. the ceiling was low, but that was scarcely a drawback for a dwarf. from the window, he could see the gibbet his father had erected in the yard. the innkeep's body turned slowly on its rope whenever the night wind gusted. her flesh had grown as thin and ragged as lannister hopes. shae murmured sleepily and rolled toward him when he sat on the edge of the featherbed. he slid his hand under the blanket and cupped a soft breast, and her eyes opened. m'lord, she said with a drowsy smile. when he felt her nipple stiffen, tyrion kissed her. i have a mind to take you to king's landing, sweetling, he whispered. 