as the rising sun came streaming through the windows, alayne sat up in bed and stretched. gretchel heard her stir and rose at once to fetch her bedrobe. the rooms had grown chilly during the night. it will be worse when winter has us in its grip, she thought. winter will make this place as cold as any tomb. alayne slipped into the robe and belted it about her waist. the fire's almost out, she observed. put another log on, if you would. as my lady wishes, the old woman said. alayne 's apartments in the maiden's tower were larger and more lavish than the little bedchamber where she'd been kept when lady lysa was alive. she had a dressing room and a privy of her own now, and a balcony of carved white stone that looked off across the vale. while gretchel was tending to the fire, alayne padded barefoot across the room and slipped outside. the stone was cold beneath her feet, and the wind was blowing fiercely, as it always did up here, but the view made her forget all that for half a heartbeat. maiden's was the easternmost of the eyrie's seven slender towers, so she had the vale before her, its forests and rivers and fields all hazy in the morning light. the way the sun was hitting the mountains made them look like solid gold. so lovely. the snow-clad summit of the giant's lance loomed above her, an immensity of stone and ice that dwarfed the castle perched upon its shoulder. icicles twenty feet long draped the lip of the precipice where alyssa's tears fell in summer. a falcon soared above the frozen waterfall, blue wings spread wide against the morning sky. would that i had wings as well. she rested her hands on the carved stone balustrade and made herself peer over the edge. she could see sky six hundred feet below, and the stone steps carved into the mountain, the winding way that led past snow and stone all the way down to the valley floor. she could see the towers and keeps of the gates of the moon, as small as a child's toys. around the walls the hosts of lords declarant were stirring, emerging from their tents like ants from an anthill. if only they were truly ants, she thought, we could step on them and crush them. young lord hunter and his levies had joined the others two days past. nestor royce had closed the gates against them, but he had fewer than three hundred men in his garrison. each of the lords declarant had brought a thousand, and there were six of them. alayne knew their names as well as her own. benedar belmore, lord of strongsong. symond templeton, the knight of ninestars. horton redfort, lord of redfort. anya waynwood, lady of ironoaks. gilwood hunter, called young lord hunter by all and sundry, lord of longbow hall. and yohn royce, mightiest of them all, the redoubtable bronze yohn, lord of runestone, nestor's cousin and the chief of the senior branch of house royce. the six had gathered at runestone after lysa arryn's fall, and there made a pact together, vowing to defend lord robert, the vale, and one another. their declaration made no mention of the lord protector, but spoke of misrule that must be ended, and of false friends and evil counselors as well. a cold gust of wind blew up her legs. she went inside to choose a gown to break her fast in. petyr had given her his late wife's wardrobe, a wealth of silks, satins, velvets, and furs far beyond anything she had ever dreamed, though the great bulk of it was far too large for her; lady lysa had grown very stout during her long succession of pregnancies, stillbirths, and miscarriages. a few of the oldest gowns had been made for young lysa tully of riverrun, however, and others gretchel had been able to alter to fit alayne, who was almost as long of leg at three-and-ten as her aunt had been at twenty. this morning her eye was caught by a parti-colored gown of tully red and blue, lined with vair. gretchel helped her slide her arms into the belled sleeves and laced her back, then brushed and pinned her hair. alayne had darkened it again last night before she went to bed. the wash her aunt had given her changed her own rich auburn into alayne 's burnt brown, but it was seldom long before the red began creeping back at the roots. and what must i do when the dye runs out? the wash had come from tyrosh, across the narrow sea. as she went down to break her fast, alayne was struck again by the stillness of the eyrie. there was no quieter castle in all the seven kingdoms. the servants here were few and old and kept their voices down so as not to excite the young lord. there were no horses on the mountain, no hounds to bark and growl, no knights training in the yard. even the footsteps of the guards seemed strangely muffled as they walked the pale stone halls. she could hear the wind moaning and sighing round the towers, but that was all. when she had first come to eyrie, there had been the murmur of alyssa's tears as well, but the waterfall was frozen now. gretchel said it would stay silent till the spring. she found lord robert alone in the morning hall above the kitchens, pushing a wooden spoon listlessly through a big bowl of porridge and honey. i wanted eggs, he complained when he saw her. i wanted three eggs boiled soft, and some back bacon. they had no eggs, no more than they had bacon. the eyrie's granaries held sufficient oats and corn and barley to feed them for a year, but they depended on a bastard girl named mya stone to bring fresh foodstuffs up from the valley floor. with the lords declarant encamped at the foot of the mountain there was no way for mya to get through. lord belmore, first of the six to reach the gates, had sent a raven to tell littlefinger that no more food would go up to the eyrie until he sent lord robert down. it was not quite a siege, not as yet, but it was the next best thing. you can have eggs when mya comes, as many as you like, alayne promised the little lordling. she'll bring eggs and butter and melons, all sorts of tasty things. the boy was unappeased. i wanted eggs today. sweetrobin, there are no eggs, you know that. please, eat your porridge, it's very nice. she ate a spoonful of her own. robert pushed his spoon across the bowl and back, but never brought it to his lips. i am not hungry, he decided. i want to go back to bed. i never slept last night. i heard singing. maester colemon gave me dreamwine but i could still hear it. alayne put down her spoon. if there had been singing, i should have heard it too. you had a bad dream, that's all. no, it wasn't a dream. tears filled his eyes. marillion was singing again. your father says he's dead, but he isn't. he is. it frightened her to hear him talk like this. bad enough that he is small and sickly, what if he is mad as well? sweetrobin, he is. marillion loved your lady mother too much and could not live with what he'd done to her, so he walked into the sky. alayne had not seen the body, no more than robert had, but she did not doubt the fact of the singer's death. he's gone, truly. but i hear him every night. even when i close the shutters and put a pillow on my head. your father should have cut his tongue out. i told him to, but he wouldn't. he needed a tongue to confess. be a good boy and eat your porridge, alayne pleaded. please? for me? i don't want porridge. robert flung his spoon across the hall. it bounced off a hanging tapestry, and left a smear of porridge upon a white silk moon. the lord wants eggs! the lord shall eat porridge and be thankful for it, said petyr's voice, behind them. alayne turned, and saw him in the doorway arch with maester colemon at his side. you should heed the lord protector, my lord, the maester said. your lord's bannermen are coming up the mountain to pay you homage, so you will need all your strength. robert rubbed at his left eye with a knuckle. send them away. i don't want them. if they come, i'll make them fly. you tempt me sorely, my lord, but i fear i promised them safe conduct, said petyr. in any case, it is too late to turn them back. by now they may have climbed as far as stone. why won't they leave us be? wailed alayne. we never did them any harm. what do they want of us? just lord robert. him, and the vale. petyr smiled. there will be eight of them. lord nestor is showing them up, and they have lyn corbray with them. ser lyn is not the sort of man to stay away when blood is in the offing. his words did little to soothe her fears. lyn corbray had slain almost as many men in duels as he had in battle. he had won his spurs during robert's rebellion, she knew, fighting first against lord jon arryn at the gates of gulltown, and later beneath his banners on the trident, where he had cut down prince lewyn of dome, a white knight of the kingsguard. petyr said that prince lewyn had been sorely wounded by the time the tide of battle swept him to his final dance with lady forlorn, but added, that's not a point you'll want to raise with corbray, though. those who do are soon given the chance to ask martell himself the truth of it, down in the halls of hell. if even half of what she had heard from lord robert's guards was true, lyn corbray was more dangerous than all six of the lords declarant put together. why is he coming? she asked. i thought the corbrays were for you. lord lyonel corbray is well disposed toward my rule, said petyr, but his brother goes his own way. on the trident, when their father fell wounded, it was lyn who snatched up lady forlorn and slew the man who'd cut him down. whilst lyonel was carrying the old man back to the maesters in the rear, lyn led his charge against the dornishmen threatening robert's left, broke their lines to pieces, and slew lewyn martell. so when old lord corbray died, he bestowed the lady upon his younger son. lyonel got his lands, his title, his castle, and all his coin, yet still feels he was cheated of his birthright, whilst ser lyn... well, he loves lyonel as much as he loves me. he wanted lysa's hand for himself. i don't like ser lyn, robert insisted. i won't have him here. you send him back down. i never said that he could come. not here. the eyrie is impregnable, mother said. your mother is dead, my lord. until your sixteenth name day, i rule the eyrie. petyr turned to the stoop-backed serving woman hovering near the kitchen steps. mela, fetch his lordship a new spoon. he wants to eat his porridge. i do not! let my porridge fly! this time robert flung the bowl, porridge and honey and all. petyr baelish ducked aside nimbly, but maester colemon was not so quick. the wooden bowl caught him square in the chest, and its contents exploded upward over his face and shoulders. he yelped in a most unmaesterlike fashion, while alayne turned to soothe the little lordling, but too late. the fit was on him. a pitcher of milk went flying as his hand caught it, flailing. when he tried to rise he knocked his chair backwards and fell on top of it. one foot caught alayne in the belly, so hard it knocked the wind from her. oh, gods be good, she heard petyr say, disgusted. globs of porridge dotted maester colemon's face and hair as he knelt over his charge, murmuring soothing words. one gobbet crept slowly down his right cheek, like a lumpy grey- brown tear. it is not so bad a spell as the last one, alayne thought, trying to be hopeful. by the time the shaking stopped, two guards in sky-blue cloaks and silvery mail shirts had come at petyr's summons. take him back to bed and leech him, the lord protector said, and the taller guardsman scooped the boy up in his arms. i could carry him myself, alayne thought. he is no heavier than a doll. colemon lingered a moment before following. my lord, this parley might best be left for another day. his lordship's spells have grown worse since lady lysa's death. more frequent and more violent. i bleed the child as often as i dare, and mix him dreamwine and milk of the poppy to help him sleep, but... he sleeps twelve hours a day, petyr said. i require him awake from time to time. the maester combed his fingers through his hair, dribbling globs of porridge on the floor. lady lysa would give his lordship her breast whenever he grew overwrought. archmaester ebrose claims that mother's milk has many heathful properties. is that your counsel, maester? that we find a wet nurse for the lord of the eyrie and defender of the vale? when shall we wean him, on his wedding day? that way he can move directly from his nurse's nipples to his wife's. lord petyr's laugh made it plain what he thought of that. no, i think not. i suggest you find another way. the boy is fond of sweets, is he not? sweets? said colemon. sweets. cakes and pies, jams and jellies, honey on the comb. perhaps a pinch of sweetsleep in his milk, have you tried that? just a pinch, to calm him and stop his wretched shaking. a pinch? the apple in the maester's throat moved up and down as he swallowed. one small pinch... perhaps, perhaps. not too much, and not too often, yes, i might try... a pinch, lord petyr said, before you bring him forth to meet the lords. as you command, my lord. the maester hurried out, his chain clinking softly with every step. father, alayne asked when he was gone, will you have a bowl of porridge to break your fast? i despise porridge. he looked at her with little finger's eyes. i'd sooner break my fast with a kiss. a true daughter would not refuse her sire a kiss, so alayne went to him and kissed him, a quick dry peck upon the cheek, and just as quickly stepped away. how... dutiful. littlefinger smiled with his mouth, but not his eyes. well, i have other duties for you, as it happens. tell the cook to mull some red wine with honey and raisins. our guests will be cold and thirsty after their long climb. you are to meet them when they arrive, and offer them refreshment. wine, bread, and cheese. what sort of cheese is left to us? the sharp white and the stinky blue. the white. and you'd best change as well. alayne looked down at her dress, the deep blue and rich dark red of riverrun. is it too —  it is too tully. the lords declarant will not be pleased by the sight of my bastard daughter prancing about in my dead wife's clothes. choose something else. need i remind you to avoid sky blue and cream? no. sky blue and cream were the colors of house arryn. eight, you said... bronze yohn is one of them? the only one who matters. bronze yohn knows me, she reminded him. he was a guest at winterfell when his son rode north to take the black. she had fallen wildly in love with ser waymar, she remembered dimly, but that was a lifetime ago, when she was a stupid little girl. and that was not the only time. lord royce saw... he saw sansa stark again at king's landing, during the hand's tourney. petyr put a finger under her chin. that royce glimpsed this pretty face i do not doubt, but it was one face in a thousand. a man fighting in a tourney has more to concern him than some child in the crowd. and at winterfell, sansa was a little girl with auburn hair. my daughter is a maiden tall and fair, and her hair is chestnut. men see what they expect to see, alayne. he kissed her nose. have maddy lay a fire in the solar. i shall receive our lords declarant there. not the high hall? no. gods forbid they glimpse me near the high seat of the arryns, they might think that i mean to sit in it. cheeks born so low as mine must never aspire to such lofty cushions. the solar. she should have stopped with that, but the words came tumbling out of her. if you gave them robert... ...and the vale? they have the vale. oh, much of it, that's true. not all, however. i am well loved in gulltown, and have some lordly friends of mine own as well. grafton, lynderly, lyonel corbray... though i'll grant you, they are no match for the lords declarant. still, where would you have us go, alayne? back to my mighty stronghold on the fingers? she had thought about that. joffrey gave you harrenhal. you are lord in your own right there. by title. i needed a great seat to marry lysa, and the lannisters were not about to grant me easterly rock. yes, but the castle is yours. ah, and what a castle it is. cavernous halls and ruined towers, ghosts and draughts, ruinous to heat, impossible to garrison... and there's that small matter of a curse. curses are only in songs and stories. that seemed to amuse him. has someone made a song about gregor clegane dying of a poisoned spear thrust? or about the sellsword before him, whose limbs ser gregor removed a joint at a time? that one took the castle from ser amory lorch, who received it from lord tywin. a bear killed one, your dwarf the other. lady whent's died as well, i hear. lothstons, strongs, harroways, strongs... harrenhal has withered every hand to touch it. then give it to lord frey. petyr laughed. perhaps i shall. or better still, to our sweet cersei. though i should not speak harshly of her, she is sending me some splendid tapestries. isn't that kind of her? the mention of the queen's name made her stiffen. she's not kind. she scares me. if she should learn where i am —   — i might have to remove her from the game sooner than i'd planned. provided she does not remove herself first. petyr teased her with a little smile. in the game of thrones, even the humblest pieces can have wills of their own. sometimes they refuse to make the moves you've planned for them. mark that well, alayne. it's a lesson that cersei lannister still has yet to learn. now, don't you have some duties to perform? she did indeed. she saw to the mulling of the wine first, found a suitable wheel of sharp white cheese, and commanded the cook to bake bread enough for twenty, in case the lords declarant brought more men than expected. once they eat our bread and salt they are our guests and cannot harm us. the freys had broken all the laws of hospitality when they'd murdered her lady mother and her brother at the twins, but she could not believe that a lord as noble as yohn royce would ever stoop to do the same. the solar next. its floor was covered by a myrish carpet, so there was no need to lay down rushes. alayne asked two serving men to erect the trestle table and bring up eight of the heavy oak-and- leather chairs. for a feast she would have placed one at the head of the table, one at the foot, and three along each side, but this was no feast. she had the men arrange six chairs on one side of the table, two on the other. by now the lords declarant might have climbed as far as snow. it took most of a day to make the climb, even on muleback. afoot, most men took several days. it might be that the lords would talk late into the night. they would need fresh candles. after maddy laid the fire, she sent her down to find the scented beeswax candles lord waxley had given lady lysa when he sought to win her hand. then she visited the kitchens once again, to make certain of the wine and bread. all seemed well in hand, and there was still time enough for her to bathe and wash her hair and change. there was a gown of purple silk that gave her pause, and another of dark blue velvet slashed with silver that would have woken all the color in her eyes, but in the end she remembered that alayne was after all a bastard, and must not presume to dress above her station. the dress she picked was lambswool, dark brown and simply cut, with leaves and vines embroidered around the bodice, sleeves, and hem in golden thread. it was modest and becoming, though scarce richer than something a serving girl might wear. petyr had given her all of lady lysa's jewels as well, and she tried on several necklaces, but they all seemed ostentatious. in the end she chose a simple velvet ribbon in autumn gold. when gretchel fetched her lysa's silvered looking glass, the color seemed just perfect with alayne 's mass of dark brown hair. lord royce will never know me, she thought. why, i hardly know myself. feeling near as bold as petyr baelish, alayne stone donned her smile and went down to meet their guests. the eyrie was the only castle in the seven kingdoms where the main entrance was underneath the dungeons. steep stone steps crept up the mountainside past the waycastles stone and snow, but they came to an end at sky. the final six hundred feet of the ascent were vertical, forcing would-be visitors to dismount their mules and make a choice. they could ride the swaying wooden basket that was used to lift supplies, or clamber up a rocky chimney using handholds carved into the rock. lord redfort and lady waynwood, the most elderly of the lords declarant, chose to be drawn up by the winch, after which the basket was lowered once more for fat lord belmore. the other lords made the climb. alayne met them in the crescent chamber beside a warming fire, where she welcomed them in lord robert's name and served them bread and cheese and cups of hot mulled wine in silver cups. petyr had given her a roll of arms to study, so she knew their heraldry if not their faces. the red castle was redfort, plainly; a short man with a neat grey beard and mild eyes. lady anya was the only woman amongst the lords declarant, and wore a deep green mantle with the broken wheel of waynwood picked out in beads of jet. six silver bells on purple, that was belmore, pear-bellied and round of shoulder. his beard was a ginger-grey horror sprouting from a multiplicity of chins. symond templeton's, by contrast, was black and sharply pointed. a beak of a nose and icy blue eyes made the knight of ninestars look like some elegant bird of prey. his doublet displayed nine black stars within a golden saltire. young lord hunter's ermine cloak confused her till she spied the brooch that pinned it, five silver arrows fanned. alayne would have put his age closer to fifty than to forty. his father had ruled at longbow hall for nigh on sixty years, only to die so abruptly that some whispered the new lord had hastened his inheritance. hunter's cheeks and nose were red as apples, which bespoke a certain fondness for the grape. she made certain to fill his cup as often as he emptied it. the youngest man in the party had three ravens on his chest, each clutching a blood-red heart in its talons. his brown hair was shoulder length; one stray lock curled down across his forehead. ser lyn corbray, alayne thought, with a wary glance at his hard mouth and restless eyes. last of all came the royces, lord nestor and bronze yohn. the lord of runestone stood as tall as the hound. though his hair was grey and his face lined, lord yohn still looked as though he could break most younger men like twigs in those huge gnarled hands. his seamed and solemn face brought back all of sansa's memories of his time at winterfell. she remembered him at table, speaking quietly with her mother. she heard his voice booming off the walls when he rode back from a hunt with a buck behind his saddle. she could see him in the yard, a practice sword in hand, hammering her father to the ground and turning to defeat ser rodrik as well. he will know me. how could he not? she considered throwing herself at his feet to beg for his protection. he never fought for robb, why should he fight for me? the war is finished and winterfell is fallen. lord royce, she asked timidly, will you have a cup of wine, to take the chill off? bronze yohn had slate-grey eyes, half-hidden beneath the bushiest eyebrows she had ever seen. they crinkled when he looked down at her. do i know you, girl? alayne felt as though she had swallowed her tongue, but lord nestor rescued her. alayne is the lord protector's natural daughter, he told his cousin gruffly. little finger's little finger has been busy, said lyn corbray, with a wicked smile. belmore laughed, and alayne could feel the color rising in her cheeks. how old are you, child? asked lady waynwood. four-fourteen, my lady. for a moment she forgot how old alayne should be. and i am no child, but a maiden flowered. but not deflowered, one can hope. young lord hunter's bushy mustache hid his mouth entirely. yet, said lyn corbray, as if she were not there. but ripe for plucking soon, i'd say. is that what passes for courtesy at heart's home? anya waynwood's hair was greying and she had crow's-feet around her eyes and loose skin beneath her chin, but there was no mistaking the air of nobility about her. the girl is young and gently bred, and has suffered enough horrors. mind your tongue, ser. my tongue is my concern, corbray replied. your ladyship should take care to mind her own. i have never taken kindly to chastisement, as any number of dead men could tell you. lady waynwood turned away from him. best take us to your father, alayne. the sooner we are done with this, the better. the lord protector awaits you in the solar. if my lords would follow me. from the crescent chamber they climbed a steep flight of marble steps that bypassed both undercrofts and dungeons and passed beneath three murder holes, which the lords declarant pretended not to notice. belmore was soon puffing like a bellows, and redfort's face turned as grey as his hair. the guards atop the stairs raised the portcullis at their coming. this way, if it please my lords. alayne led them down the arcade past a dozen splendid tapestries. ser lothor brune stood outside the solar. he opened the door for them and followed them inside. petyr was seated at the trestle table with a cup of wine to hand, looking over a crisp white parchment. he glanced up as the lords declarant filed in. my lords, be welcome. and you as well, my lady. the ascent is wearisome, i know. please be seated. alayne, my sweet, more wine for our noble guests. as you say, father. the candles had been lighted, she was pleased to see; the solar smelled of nutmeg and other costly spices. she went to fetch the flagon whilst the visitors arranged themselves side by side... all save nestor royce, who hesitated before walking around the table to take the empty chair beside lord petyr, and lyn corbray, who went to stand beside the hearth instead. the heart-shaped ruby in the pommel of his sword shone redly as he warmed his hands. alayne saw him smile at ser lothor brune. ser lyn is very handsome, for an older man, she thought, but i do not like the way he smiles. i have been reading this remarkable declaration of yours, petyr began. splendid. whatever maester wrote this has a gift for words. i only wish you had invited me to sign as well. that took them unawares. you? said belmore. sign? i wield a quill as well as any man, and no one loves lord robert more than i do. as for these false friends and evil counselors, by all means let us root them out. my lords, i am with you, heart and hand. show me where to sign, i beg you. alayne, pouring, heard lyn corbray chuckle. the others seemed at a loss till bronze yohn royce cracked his knuckles, and said, we did not come for your signature. nor do we mean to bandy words with you, little finger. what a pity. i do so love a nicely bandied word. petyr set the parchment to one side. as you wish. let us be blunt. what would you have of me, my lords and lady? we will have naught of you. symond templeton fixed the lord protector with his cold blue stare. we will have you gone. gone? petyr feigned surprise. where would i go? the crown has made you lord of harrenhal, young lord hunter pointed out. that should be enough for any man. the riverlands have need of a lord, old horton redfort said. riverrun stands besieged, bracken and blackwood are at open war, and outlaws roam freely on both sides of the trident, stealing and killing as they will. unburied corpses litter the landscape everywhere you go. you make it sound so wonderfully attractive, lord redfort, petyr answered, but as it happens i have pressing duties here. and there is lord robert to consider. would you have me drag a sickly child into the midst of such carnage? his lordship will remain in the vale, declared yohn royce. i mean to take the boy with me to runestone, and raise him up to be a knight that jon arryn would be proud of. why runestone? petyr mused. why not ironoaks or the redfort? why not longbow hall? any of these would serve as well, declared lord belmore, and his lordship will visit each in turn, in due time. will he? petyr's tone seemed to hint at doubts. lady waynwood sighed. lord petyr, if you think to set us one against the other, you may spare yourself the effort. we speak with one voice here. runestone suits us all. lord yohn raised three fine sons of his own, there is no man more fit to foster his young lordship. maester helliweg is a good deal older and more experienced than your own maester colemon, and better suited to treat lord robert's frailties. in runestone the boy will learn the arts of war from strong sam stone. no man could hope for a finer master-at-arms. septon lucos will instruct him in matters of the spirit. at runestone he will also find other boys his own age, more suitable companions than the old women and sellswords that presently surround him. petyr baelish fingered his beard. his lordship needs companions, i do not disagree. alayne is hardly an old woman, though. lord robert loves my daughter dearly, he will be glad to tell you so himself. and as it happens, i have asked lord grafton and lord lynderly to send me each a son to ward. each of them has a boy of an age with robert. lyn corbray laughed. two pups from a pair of lapdogs. robert should have an older boy about him too. a promising young squire, say. someone he could admire and try to emulate. petyr turned to lady waynwood. you have such a boy at ironoaks, my lady. perhaps you might agree to send me harrold hardyng. anya waynwood seemed amused. lord petyr, you are as bold a thief as i'd ever care to meet. i do not wish to steal the boy, said petyr, but he and lord robert should be friends. bronze yohn royce leaned forward. it is meet and proper that lord robert should befriend young harry, and he shall... at runestone, under my care, as my ward and squire. give us the boy, said lord belmore, and you may depart the vale unmolested for your proper seat at harrenhal. petyr gave him a look of mild reproach. are you suggesting that elsewise i might come to harm, my lord? i cannot think why. my late wife seemed to think this was my proper seat. lord baelish, lady waynwood said, lysa tully was jon arryn's widow and the mother of his child, and ruled here as his regent. you... let us be frank, you are no arryn, and lord robert is no blood of yours. by what right do you presume to rule us? lysa named me lord protector, i do seem to recall. young lord hunter said, lysa tully was never truly of the vale, nor had she the right to dispose of us. and lord robert? petyr asked. will your lordship also claim that lady lysa had no right to dispose of her own son? nestor royce had been silent all this while, but now he spoke up loudly. i once hoped to wed lady lysa myself. as did lord hunter's father and lady anya's son. corbray scarce left her side for half a year. had she chosen any one of us, no man here would dispute his right to be the lord protector. it happens that she chose lord littlefinger, and entrusted her son to his care. he was jon arryn's son as well, cousin, bronze yohn said, frowning at the keeper. he belongs to the vale. petyr feigned puzzlement. the eyrie is as much a part of the vale as runestone. unless someone has moved it? jape all you like, littlefinger, lord belmore blustered. the boy shall come with us. i am loath to disappoint you, lord belmore, but my stepson will be remaining here with me. he is not a robust child, as all of you know well. the journey would tax him sorely. as his stepfather and lord protector, i cannot permit it. symond templeton cleared his throat, and said, each of us has a thousand men at the foot of this mountain, littlefinger. what a splendid place for them. if need be, we can summon many more. are you threatening me with war, ser? petyr did not sound the least afraid. bronze yohn said, we shall have lord robert. for a moment it seemed as though they had come to an impasse, until lyn corbray turned from the fire. all this talk makes me ill. littlefinger will talk you out of your smallclothes if you listen long enough. the only way to settle his sort is with steel. he drew his longsword. petyr spread his hands. i wear no sword, ser. easily remedied. candlelight rippled along the smoke-grey steel of corbray's blade, so dark that it put sansa in mind of ice, her father's greatsword. your apple-eater holds a blade. tell him to give it to you, or draw that dagger. she saw lothor brune reach for his own sword, but before the blades could meet bronze yohn rose in wrath. put up your steel, ser! are you a corbray or a frey? we are guests here. lady waynwood pursed her lips, and said, this is unseemly. sheathe your sword, corbray, young lord hunter echoed. you shame us all with this. come, lyn, chided redfort in a softer tone. this will serve for nought. put lady forlorn to bed. my lady has a thirst, ser lyn insisted. whenever she comes out to dance, she likes a drop of red. your lady must go thirsty. bronze yohn put himself squarely in corbray's path. the lords declarant. lyn corbray snorted. you should have named yourselves the six old women. he slid the dark sword back into its scabbard and left them, shouldering brune aside as if he were not there. alayne listened to his footsteps recede. anya waynwood and horton redfort exchanged a look. hunter drained his wine cup and held it out to be refilled. lord baelish, ser symond said, you must forgive us that display. must i? littlefinger' s voice had grown cold. you brought him here, my lords. bronze yohn said, it was never our intent —  you brought him here. i would be well within my rights to call my guards and have all of you arrested. hunter lurched to his feet so wildly that he almost knocked the flagon out of alayne's hands. you gave us safe conduct! yes. be grateful that i have more honor than some. petyr sounded as angry as she had ever heard him. i have read your declaration and heard your demands. now hear mine. remove your armies from this mountain. go home and leave my son in peace. misrule there has been, i will not deny it, but that was lysa's work, not mine. grant me but a year, and with lord nestor's help i promise that none of you shall have any cause for grievance. so you say, said belmore. yet how shall we trust you? you dare call me untrustworthy? it was not me who bared steel at a parley. you write of defending lord robert even as you deny him food. that must end. i am no warrior, but i will fight you if you do not lift this siege. there are other lords besides you in the vale, and king's landing will send men as well. if it is war you want, say so now and the vale will bleed. alayne could see the doubt blooming in the eyes of the lords declarant. a year is not so long a time, lord redfort said uncertainly. mayhaps... if you gave assurances... none of us wants war, acknowledged lady waynwood. autumn wanes, and we must gird ourselves for winter. belmore cleared his throat. at the end of this year... ... if i have not set the vale to rights, i shall willingly step down as lord protector, petyr promised them. i call that more than fair, lord nestor royce put in. there must be no reprisals, insisted templeton. no talk of treason or rebellion. you must swear to that as well. gladly, said petyr. it is friends i want, not foes. i shall pardon all of you, in writing if you wish. even lyn corbray. his brother is a good man, there is no need to bring down shame upon a noble house. lady waynwood turned to her fellow lords declarant. my lords, perhaps we might confer? there is no need. it is plain that he has won. bronze yohn's grey eyes considered petyr baelish. i like it not, but it would seem you have your year. best use it well, my lord. not all of us are fooled. he opened the door so forcefully that he all but wrenched it off its hinges. later there was a feast of sorts, though petyr was forced to make apologies for the humble fare. robert was trotted out in a doublet of cream and blue, and played the little lord quite graciously. bronze yohn was not there to see; he had already departed from the eyrie to begin the long descent, as had ser lyn corbray before him. the other lords remained with them till morn. he bewitched them, alayne thought as she lay abed that night listening to the wind howl outside her windows. she could not have said where the suspicion came from, but once it crossed her mind it would not let her sleep. she tossed and turned, worrying at it like a dog at some old bone. finally, she rose and dressed herself, leaving gretchel to her dreams. petyr was still awake, scratching out a letter. alayne, he said. my sweet. what brings you here so late? i had to know. what will happen in a year? he put down his quill. redfort and waynwood are old. one or both of them may die. gilwood hunter will be murdered by his brothers. most likely by young harlan, who arranged lord eon's death. in for a penny, in for a stag, i always say. belmore is corrupt and can be bought. templeton i shall befriend. bronze yohn royce will continue to be hostile, i fear, but so long as he stands alone he is not so much a threat. and ser lyn corbray? the candlelight was dancing in his eyes. ser lyn will remain my implacable enemy. he will speak of me with scorn and loathing to every man he meets, and lend his sword to every secret plot to bring me down. that was when her suspicion turned to certainty. and how shall you reward him for this service? littlefinger laughed aloud. with gold and boys and promises, of course. ser lyn is a man of simple tastes, my sweetling. all he likes is gold and boys and killing. she turned the iron ring and pushed the door open, just a crack. sweetrobin? she called. may i enter? have a care, m'lady, warned old gretchel, wringing her hands. his lordship threw his chamber pot at the maester. then he has none to throw at me. isn't there some work you should be doing? and you, maddy... are all the windows closed and shuttered? have all the furnishings been covered? all of them, m'lady, said maddy. best make certain of it. alayne slipped into the darkened bedchamber. it's only me, sweetrobin. someone sniffled in the darkness. are you alone? i am, my lord. come close, then. just you. alayne shut the door firmly behind her. it was solid oak, four inches thick; maddy and gretchel might listen all they wished, but they would hear nothing. that was just as well. gretchel could hold her tongue, but maddy gossiped shamelessly. did maester colemon send you? the boy asked. no, she lied. i heard my sweetrobin was ailing. after his encounter with the chamber pot the maester had come running to ser lothor, and brune had come to her. if m'lady can talk him out of bed nice, the knight said, i won't have to drag him out. we can't have that, she told herself. when robert was handled roughly he was apt to go into a shaking fit. are you hungry, my lord? she asked the little lord. shall i send maddy down for berries and cream, or some warm bread and butter? too late she remembered that there was no warm bread; the kitchens were closed, the ovens cold. if it gets robert out of bed, it would be worth the bother of lighting a fire, she told herself. i don't want food, the little lord said, in a reedy, petulant voice. i'm going to stay in bed today. you could read to me if you want. it is too dark in here for reading. the heavy curtains drawn across the windows made the bedchamber black as night. has my sweetrobin forgotten what day this is? no, he said, but i'm not going. i want to stay in bed. you could read to me about the winged knight. the winged knight was ser artys arryn. legend said that he had driven the first men from the vale and flown to the top of the giant's lance on a huge falcon to slay the griffin king. there were a hundred tales of his adventures. little robert knew them all so well he could have recited them from memory, but he liked to have them read to him all the same. sweetling, we have to go, she told the boy, but i promise, i'll read you two tales of the winged knight when we reach the gates of the moon. three, he said at once. no matter what you offered him, robert always wanted more. three, she agreed. might i let some sun in? no. the light hurts my eyes. come to bed, alayne. she went to the windows anyway, edging around the broken chamber pot. she could smell it better than she saw it. i shan't open them very wide. only enough to see my sweetrobin's face. he sniffled. if you must. the curtains were of plush blue velvet. she pulled one back a finger's length and tied it off. dust motes danced in a shaft of pale morning light. the small diamond-shaped panes of the window were obscured by frost. alayne rubbed at one with the heel of her hand, enough to glimpse a brilliant blue sky and a blaze of white from the mountainside. the eyrie was wrapped in an icy mantle, the giant's lance above buried in waist-deep snows. when she turned back, robert arryn was propped up against the pillows looking at her. the lord of the eyrie and defender of the vale. a woolen blanket covered him below the waist. above it he was naked, a pasty boy with hair as long as any girl's. robert had spindly arms and legs, a soft concave chest and little belly, and eyes that were always red and runny. he cannot help the way he is. he was born small and sickly. you look very strong this morning, my lord. he loved to be told how strong he was. shall i have maddy and gretchel fetch hot water for your bath? maddy will scrub your back for you and wash your hair, to make you clean and lordly for your journey. won't that be nice? no. i hate maddy. she has a wart on her eye, and she scrubs so hard it hurts. my mommy never hurt me scrubbing. i will tell maddy not to scrub my sweetrobin so hard. you'll feel better when you're fresh and clean. no bath, i told you, my head hurts most awfully. shall i bring you a warm cloth for your brow? or a cup of dreamwine? only a little one, though. mya stone is waiting down at sky, and she'll be hurt if you go to sleep on her. you know how much she loves you. i don't love her. she's just the mule girl. robert sniffled. maester colemonput something vile in my milk last night, i could taste it. i told him i wanted sweetmilk, but he wouldn't bring me any. not even when i commanded him. i am the lord, he should do what i say. no one does what i say. i'll speak to him, alayne promised, but only if you get up out of bed. it's beautiful outside, sweetrobin. the sun is shining bright, a perfect day for going down the mountain. the mules are waiting down at sky with mya... his mouth quivered. i hate those smelly mules. one tried to bite me once! you tell that mya that i'm staying here. he sounded as if he were about to cry. no one can hurt me so long as i stay here. the eyrie is impregnable. who would want to hurt my sweetrobin? your lords and knights adore you, and the smallfolk cheer your name. he is afraid, she thought, and with good reason. since his lady mother had fallen, the boy would not even stand upon a balcony, and the way from the eyrie to the gates of the moon was perilous enough to daunt anyone. alayne's heart had been in her throat when she made her own ascent with lady lysa and lord petyr, and everyone agreed that the descent was even more harrowing, since you were looking down the whole time. mya could tell of great lords and bold knights who had gone pale and wet their smallclothes on the mountain. and none of them had the shaking sickness either. still, it would not serve. on the valley floor autumn still lingered, warm and golden, but winter had closed around the mountain peaks. they had weathered three snowstorms, and an ice storm that transformed the castle into crystal for a fortnight. the eyrie might be impregnable, but it would soon be inaccessible as well, and the way down grew more hazardous every day. most of the castle's servants and soldiers had already made the descent. only a dozen still lingered up here, to attend lord robert. sweetrobin, she said gently, the descent will be ever so jolly, you'll see. ser lothor will be with us, and mya. her mules have gone up and down this old mountain a thousand times. i hate mules, he insisted. mules are nasty. i told you, one tried to bite me when i was little. robert had never learned to ride properly, she knew. mules, horses, donkeys, it made no matter; to him they were all fearsome beasts, as terrifying as dragons or griffins. he had been brought to the vale at six, riding with his head cradled between his mother's milky breasts, and had never left the eyrie since. still, they had to go, before the ice closed about the castle for good. there was no telling how long the weather would hold. mya will keep the mules from biting, alayne said, and i'll be riding just behind you. i'm only a girl, not as brave or strong as you. if i can do it, i know you can, sweetrobin. i could do it, lord robert said, but i don't choose to. he swiped at his runny nose with the back of his hand. tell mya i am going to stay abed. perhaps i will come down on the morrow, if i feel better. today is too cold out, and my head hurts. you can have some sweetmilk too, and i'll tell gretchel to bring us some honeycombs to eat. we'll sleep and kiss and play games, and you can read me about the winged knight. i will. three tales, as i promised... when we reach the gates of the moon. alayne was running short of patience. we have to go, she reminded herself, or we'll still be above the snow line when the sun goes down. lord nestor has prepared a feast to welcome you, mushroom soup and venison and cakes. you don't want to disappoint him, do you? will they be lemon cakes? lord robert loved lemon cakes, perhaps because alayne did. lemony lemony lemon cakes, she assured him, and you can have as many as you like. a hundred? he wanted to know. could i have a hundred? if it please you. she sat on the bed and smoothed his long, fine hair. he does have pretty hair. lady lysa had brushed it herself every night, and cut it when it wanted cutting. after she had fallen robert had suffered terrible shaking fits whenever anyone came near him with a blade, so petyr had commanded that his hair be allowed to grow. alayne wound a lock around her finger, and said, now, will you get out of bed and let us dress you? i want a hundred lemon cakes and five tales! i'd like to give you a hundred spankings and five slaps. you would not dare behave like this if petyr were here. the little lord had a good healthy fear of his stepfather. alayne forced a smile. as my lord desires. but nothing till you're washed and dressed and on your way. come, before the morning's gone. she took him firmly by the hand, and drew him out of bed. before she could summon the servants, however, sweetrobin threw his skinny arms around her and kissed her. it was a little boy's kiss, and clumsy. everything robert arryn did was clumsy. if i close my eyes i can pretend he is the knight of flowers. ser loras had given sansa stark a red rose once, but he had never kissed her... and no tyre 11 would ever kiss alayne stone. pretty as she was, she had been born on the wrong side of the blanket. as the boy's lips touched her own she found herself thinking of another kiss. she could still remember how it felt, when his cruel mouth pressed down on her own. he had come to sansa in the darkness as green fire filled the sky. he took a song and a kiss, and left me nothing but a bloody cloak. it made no matter. that day was done, and so was sansa. alayne pushed her little lord away. that's enough. you can kiss me again when we reach the gates, if you keep your word. maddy and gretchel were waiting outside with maester colemon. the maester had washed the night soil from his hair and changed his robe. robert's squires had turned up as well. terrance and gyles could always sniff out trouble. lord robert is feeling stronger, alayne told the serving women. fetch hot water for his bath, but see you don't scald him. and do not pull on his hair when you brush out the tangles, he hates that. one of the squires sniggered, until she said, terrance, lay out his lordship's riding clothes and his warmest cloak. gyles, you may clean up that broken chamber pot. gyles grafton made a face. i'm no scrubwoman. do as lady alayne commands, or lothor brune will hear of it, said maester colemon. he followed her along the hallway and down the twisting stairs. i am grateful for your intercession, my lady. you have a way with him. he hesitated. did you observe any shaking while you were with him? his fingers trembled a little bit when i held his hand, that's all. he says you put something vile in his milk. vile? colemon blinked at her, and the apple in his throat moved up and down. i merely... is he bleeding from the nose? no. good. that is good. his chain clinked softly as he bobbed his head, atop a ridiculously long and skinny neck. this descent... my lady, it might be safest if i mixed his lordship some milk of the poppy. mya stone could lash him over the back of her most surefooted mule whilst he slumbered. the lord of the eyrie cannot descend from his mountain tied up like a sack of barleycorn. of that alayne was certain. they dare not let the full extent of robert's frailty and cowardice become too widely known, her father had warned her. i wish he were here. he would know what to do. petyr baelish was clear across the vale, though, attending lord lyonel corbray at his wedding. a widower of forty-odd years, and childless, lord lyonel was to wed the strapping sixteen- year- old daughter of a rich gulltown merchant. petyr had brokered the match himself. the bride's dower was said to be staggering; it had to be, since she was of common birth. corbray's vassals would be there, with the lords waxley, grafton, lynderly, some petty lords and landed knights... and lord belmore, who had lately reconciled with her father. the other lords declarant were expected to shun the nuptials, so petyr' s presence was essential. alayne understood all that well enough, but it meant that the burden of getting sweetrobin safely down the mountain fell on her. give his lordship a cup of sweetmilk, she told the maester. that will stop him from shaking on the journey down. he had a cup not three days past, colemon objected. and wanted another last night, which you refused him. it was too soon. my lady, you do not understand. as i've told the lord protector, a pinch of sweetsleep will prevent the shaking, but it does not leave the flesh, and in time... time will not matter if his lordship has a shaking fit and falls off the mountain. if my father were here, i know he would tell you to keep lord robert calm at all costs. i try, my lady, yet his fits grow ever more violent, and his blood is so thin i dare not leech him any more. sweetsleep... you are certain he was not bleeding from the nose? he was sniffling, alayne admitted, but i saw no blood. i must speak to the lord protector. this feast... is that wise, i wonder, after the strain of the descent? it will not be a large feast, she assured him. no more than forty guests. lord nestor and his household, the knight of the gate, a few lesser lords and their retainers... lord robert mislikes strangers, you know that, and there will be drinking, noise... music. music frightens him. music soothes him, she corrected, the high harp especially. it's singing he can't abide, since marillion killed his mother. alayne had told the lie so many times that she remembered it that way more oft than not; the other seemed no more than a bad dream that sometimes troubled her sleep. lord nestor will have no singers at the feast, only flutes and fiddles for the dancing. what would she do when the music began to play? it was a vexing question, to which her heart and head gave different answers. sansa loved to dance, but alayne... just give him a cup of the sweetmilk before we go, and another at the feast, and there should be no trouble. very well. they paused at the foot of the stairs. but this must be the last. for half a year, or longer. you had best take that up with the lord protector. she pushed through the door and crossed the yard. colemon only wanted the best for his charge, alayne knew, but what was best for robert the boy and what was best for lord arryn were not always the same. petyr had said as much, and it was true. maester colemon cares only for the boy, though. father and i have larger concerns. old snow cloaked the courtyard, and icicles hung down like crystal spears from the terraces and towers. the eyrie was built of fine white stone, and winter's mantle made it whiter still. so beautiful, alayne thought, so impregnable. she could not love this place, no matter how she tried. even before the guards and serving men had made their descent, the castle had seemed as empty as a tomb, and more so when petyr baelish was away. no one sang up there, not since marillion. no one ever laughed too loud. even the gods were silent. the eyrie boasted a sept, but no septon; a godswood, but no heart tree. no prayers are answered here, she often thought, though some days she felt so lonely she had to try. only the wind answered her, sighing endlessly around the seven slim white towers and rattling the moon door every time it gusted. it will be even worse in winter, she knew. in winter this will be a cold white prison. and yet the thought of leaving frightened her almost as much as it frightened robert. she only hid it better. her father said there was no shame in being afraid, only in showing your fear. all men live with fear, he said. alayne was not certain she believed that. nothing frightened petyr baelish. he only said that to make me brave. she would need to be brave down below, where the chance of being unmasked was so much greater. petyr's friends at court had sent him word that the queen had men out looking for the imp and sansa stark. it will mean my head if i am found, she reminded herself as she descended a flight of icy stone steps. i must be alayne all the time, inside and out. lothor brune was in the winch room, helping the gaoler mord and two serving men wrestle chests of clothes and bales of cloth into six huge oaken buckets, each big enough around to hold three men. the great chain winches were the easiest way to reach the waycastle sky, six hundred feet below them; elsewise you had to descend the natural stone chimney from the undercellar. or go the way marillion went, and lady lysa before him. boy out of bed? ser lothor asked. they're bathing him. he will be ready within the hour. we best hope he is. mya won't wait past midday. the winch room was unheated, so his breath misted with every word. she'll wait, alayne said. she has to wait. don't be so certain, m'lady. she's half mule herself, that one. i think she'd leave us all to starve before she'd put those animals at risk. he smiled when he said it. he always smiles when he speaks of mya stone. mya was much younger than ser lothor, but when her father had been brokering the marriage between lord corbray and his merchant's daughter, he'd told her that young girls were always happiest with older men. innocence and experience make for a perfect marriage, he had said. alayne wondered what mya made of ser lothor. with his squashed nose, square jaw, and nap of woolly grey hair, brune could not be called comely, but he was not ugly either. it is a common face but an honest one. though he had risen to knighthood, ser lothor's birth had been very low. one night he had told her that he was kin to the brunes of brownhollow, an old knightly family from crackclaw point. i went to them when my father died, he confessed, but they shat on me, and said i was no blood of theirs. he would not speak of what happened after that, except to say that he had learned all he knew of arms the hard way. sober, he was a quiet man, but a strong one. and petyr says he's loyal. he trusts him as much as he trusts anyone. brune would be a good match for a bastard girl like mya stone, she thought. it might be different if her father had acknowledged her, but he never did. and maddy says that she's no maid either. mord took up his whip and cracked it, and the first pair of oxen began to lumber in a circle, turning the winch. the chain uncoiled, rattling as it scraped across the stone, the oaken bucket swaying as it began its long descent to sky. poor oxen, thought alayne. mord would cut their throats and butcher them before he left, and leave them for the falcons. whatever part remained when the eyrie was reopened would be roasted up for the spring feast, if it had not spoiled. a good supply of hard frozen meat foretold a summer of plenty, old gretchel claimed. mtady, ser lothor said, you'd best know. mya didn't come up alone. lady myranda's with her. oh. why would she ride all the way up the mountain, just to ride back down again? myranda royce was the lord nestor's daughter. the one time that sansa had visited the gates of the moon, on the way up to the eyrie with her aunt lysa and lord petyr, she had been away, but alayne had heard much of her since from the eyrie's soldiers and serving girls. her mother was long dead, so lady myranda kept her father's castle for him; it was a much livelier court when she was home than when she was away, according to rumor. soon or late you must meet myranda royce, petyr had warned her. when you do, be careful. she likes to play the merry fool, but underneath she's shrewder than her father. guard your tongue around her. i will, she thought, but i did not know i'd need to start so soon. robert will be pleased. he liked myranda royce. you must excuse me, ser. i need to finish packing. alone, she climbed the steps back to her room for one last time. the windows had been sealed and shuttered, the furnishings covered. a few of her things had already been removed, the rest stored away. all of lady lysa's silks and samites were to be left behind. her sheerest linens and plushest velvets, the rich embroidery and fine myrish lace; all would remain. down below, alayne must dress modestly, as befit a girl of modest birth. it makes no matter, she told herself. i dared not wear the best clothes even here. gretchel had stripped the bed and laid out the rest of her clothing. alayne was already wearing woolen hose beneath her skirts, over a double layer of smallclothes. now she donned a lambswool overtunic and a hooded fur cloak, fastening it with an enameled mockingbird that had been a gift from petyr. there was a scarf as well, and a pair of leather gloves lined with fur to match her riding boots. when she'd donned it all, she felt as fat and furry as a bear cub. i will be glad of it on the mountain, she had to remind herself. she took one last look at her room before she left. i was safe here, she thought, but down below... when alayne returned to the winch room, she found mya stone waiting impatiently with lothor brune and mord. she must have come up in the bucket to see what was taking us so long. slim and sinewy, mya looked as tough as the old riding leathers she wore beneath her silvery ringmail shirt. her hair was black as a raven's wing, so short and shaggy that alayne suspected that she cut it with a dagger. mya's eyes were her best feature, big and blue. she could be pretty, if she would dress up like a girl. alayne found herself wondering whether ser lothor liked her best in her iron and leather, or dreamed of her gowned in lace and silk. mya liked to say that her father had been a goat and her mother an owl, but alayne had gotten the true story from maddy. yes, she thought, looking at her now, those are his eyes, and she has his hair too, the thick black hair he shared with renly. where is he? the bastard girl demanded. his lordship is being bathed and dressed. he needs to make some haste. it's getting colder, can't you feel it? we need to get below snow before the sun goes down. how bad is the wind? alayne asked her. it could be worse... and will be, after dark. mya pushed a lock of hair from her eyes. if he bathes much longer, we'll be trapped up here all winter with nothing to eat except each other. alayne did not know what to say to that. thankfully, she was spared by the arrival of robert arryn. the little lord wore sky-blue velvet, a chain of gold and sapphires, and a white bearskin cloak. his squires each held an end, to keep the cloak from dragging on the floor. maester colemon accompanied them, in a threadbare grey cloak lined with squirrel fur. gretchel and maddy were not far behind. when he felt the cold wind on his face, robert quailed, but terrance and gyles were behind him, so he could not flee. my lord, said mya, will you ride down with me? too brusque, alayne thought. she should have greeted him with a smile, told him how strong and brave he looks. i want alayne, lord robert said. i'll only go with her. the bucket can hold all three of us. i just want alayne. you smell all stinky, like a mule. as you wish. mya's face showed no emotion. some of the winch chains were fixed to wicker baskets, others to stout oaken buckets. the largest of those was taller than alayne, with iron bands girding its dark brown staves. even so, her heart was in her throat as she took robert's hand and helped him in. once the hatch was closed behind them, the wood surrounded them on all sides. only the top was open. it is best that way, she told herself, we can't look down. below them was only sky and sky. six hundred feet of sky. for a moment she found herself wondering how long it had taken her aunt to fall that distance, and what her last thought had been as the mountain rushed up to meet her. no, i mustn't think of that. i mustn't! away! came ser lothor's shout. someone shoved the bucket hard. it swayed and tipped, scraped against the floor, then swung free. she heard the crack of mord's whip and the rattle of the chain. they began to descend, by jerks and starts at first, then more smoothly. robert's face was pale and his eyes puffy, but his hands were still. the eyrie shrank above them. the sky cells on the lower levels made the castle look something like a honeycomb from below. a honeycomb made of ice, alayne thought, a castle made of snow. she could hear the wind whistling round the bucket. a hundred feet down, a sudden gust caught hold of them. the bucket swayed sideways, spinning in the air, then bumped hard against the rock face behind them. shards of ice and snow rained down on them, and the oak creaked and strained. robert gave a gasp and clung to her, burying his face between her breasts. my lord is brave, alayne said, when she felt him shaking. i'm so frightened i can hardly talk, but not you. she felt him nod. the winged knight was brave, and so am i, he boasted to her bodice. i'm an arryn. will my sweetrobin hold me tight? she asked, though he was already holding her so tightly that she could scarcely breathe. if you like, he whispered. and clinging hard to one another, they continued on straight down to sky. calling this a castle is like calling a puddle on a privy floor a lake, alayne thought, when the bucket was opened so they might emerge within the waycastle. sky was no more than a crescent- shaped wall of old unmortared stone, enclosing a stony ledge and the yawning mouth of a cavern. inside were storehouses and stables, a long natural hall, and the chiseled handholds that led up to the eyrie. outside, the ground was strewn by broken stones and boulders. earthen ramps gave access to the wall. six hundred feet above, the eyrie was so small she could hide it with her hand, but far below the vale stretched green and golden. twenty mules awaited them within the waycastle, along with two mule-walkers and the lady myranda royce. lord nestor's daughter proved to be a short, fleshy woman, of an age with mya stone, but where mya was slim and sinewy, myranda was soft-bodied and sweet-smelling, broad of hip, thick of waist, and extremely buxom. her thick chestnut curls framed round red cheeks, a small mouth, and a pair of lively brown eyes. when robert climbed gingerly from the bucket, she knelt in a patch of snow to kiss his hand and cheeks. my lord, she said, you've grown so big! have i? said robert, pleased. you will be taller than me soon, the lady lied. she got to her feet and brushed the snow from her skirts. and you must be the lord protector's daughter, she added, as the bucket went rattling back up to the eyrie. i had heard that you were beautiful. i see that it is true. alayne curtsied. my lady is kind to say so. kind? the older girl gave a laugh. how boring that would be. i aspire to be wicked. you must tell me all your secrets on the ride down. may i call you alayne? if you wish, my lady. but you'll get no secrets from me. i am 'my lady' at the gates, but up here on the mountain you may call me randa. how many years have you, alayne? four-and-ten, my lady. she had decided that alayne stone should be older than sansa stark. randa. it seems a hundred years since i was four-and-ten. how innocent i was. are you still innocent, alayne? she blushed. you should not... yes, of course. saving yourself for lord robert? lady myranda teased. or is there some ardent squire dreaming of your favors? no, said alayne, even as robert said, she's my friend. terrance and gyles can't have her. a second bucket had arrived by then, thumping down softly on a mound of frozen snow. maester colemon emerged with the squires terrance and gyles. the next winch delivered maddy and gretchel, who rode with mya stone. the bastard girl wasted no time taking charge. we don't want to get bunched up on the mountain, she told the other mule handlers. i'll take lord robert and his companions. ossy, you'll bring down ser lothor and the rest, but give me an hour's lead. carrot, you'll have charge of their chests and boxes. she turned to robert arryn, her black hair blowing. which mule will you ride today, my lord? they're all stinky. i'll have the grey one, with the ear chewed off. i want alayne to ride with me. and myranda too. where the way is wide enough. come, my lord, let's get you on your mule. there's a smell of snow in the air. it was another half hour before they were ready to set out. when all of them were mounted up, mya stone gave a crisp command, and two of sky's men-at-arms swung the gates open. mya led them out, with lord robert just behind her, swaddled in his bearskin cloak. alayne and myranda royce followed, then gretchel and maddy, then terrance lynderly and gyles grafton. maester colemon brought up the rear, leading a second mule laden with his chests of herbs and potions. beyond the walls, the wind picked up sharply. they were above the tree line here, exposed to the elements. alayne was thankful that she'd dressed so warmly. her cloak was flapping noisily behind her, and a sudden gust blew back her hood. she laughed, but a few yards ahead lord robert squirmed, and said, it's too cold. we should go back and wait until it's warmer. it will be warmer on the valley floor, my lord, said mya. you'll see when we get down there. i don't want to see, said robert, but mya paid no mind. their road was a crooked series of stone steps carved into the mountainside, but the mules knew every inch of it. alayne was glad of that. here and there the stone was shattered from the strain of countless seasons, with all their thaws and freezes. patches of snow clung to the rock on either side of the path, blinding white. the sun was bright, the sky was blue, and there were falcons circling overhead, riding on the wind. up here where the slope was steepest, the steps wound back and forth rather than plunging straight down. sansa stark went up the mountain, but alayne stone is coming down. it was a strange thought. coming up, mya had warned her to keep her eyes on the path ahead, she remembered. look up, not down, she said... but that was not possible on the descent. i could close my eyes. the mule knows the way, he has no need of me. but that seemed more something sansa would have done, that frightened girl. alayne was an older woman, and bastard brave. at first they rode in single file, but farther down the path widened enough for two to ride abreast, and myranda royce came up beside her. we have had a letter from your father, she said, as casually as if they were sitting with their septa, doing needlework. he is on his way home, he says, and hopes to see his darling daughter soon. he writes that lyonel corbray seems well pleased with his bride, and even more so with her dowry. i do hope lord lyonel remembers which one he needs to bed. lady waynwood turned up with the knight of ninestars for the wedding feast, lord petyr says, to everyone's astonishment. anya waynwood? truly? the lords declarant were down from six to three, it would seem. the day he'd departed the mountain, petyr baelish had been confident of winning symond templeton to his side, but not so lady waynwood. was there more? she asked. the eyrie was such a lonely place that she was eager for any bit of news from the world beyond, however trivial or insignificant. not from your father, no, but we've had other birds. the war goes on, everywhere but here. riverrun has yielded, but dragonstone and storm's end still hold for lord stannis. lady lysa was so wise, to keep us out of it. myranda gave her a shrewd little smile. yes, she was the very soul of wisdom, that good lady. she shifted her seat. why must mules be so bony and ill-tempered? mya does not feed them enough. a nice fat mule would be more comfortable to ride. there's a new high septon, did you know? oh, and the night's watch has a boy commander, some bastard son of eddard stark's. jon snow? she blurted out, surprised. snow? yes, it would be snow, i suppose. she had not thought of jon in ages. he was only her half brother, but still... with robb and bran and rickon dead, jon snow was the only brother that remained to her. i am a bastard too now, just like him. oh, it would be so sweet, to see him once again. but of course that could never be. alayne stone had no brothers, baseborn or otherwise. our cousin bronze yohn had himself a melee at runestone, myranda royce went on, oblivious, a small one, just for squires. it was meant for harry the heir to win the honors, and so he did. harry the heir? lady waynwood' s ward. harrold hardyng. i suppose we must call him ser harry now. bronze yohn knighted him. oh. alayne was confused. why should lady waynwood's ward be her heir? she had sons of her own blood. one was the knight of the bloody gate, ser donnel. she did not want to look stupid, though, so all she said was, i pray he proves a worthy knight. lady myranda snorted. i pray he gets the pox. he has a bastard daughter by some common girl, you know. my lord father had hoped to marry me to harry, but lady waynwood would not hear of it. i do not know whether it was me she found unsuitable, or just my dowry. she gave a sigh. i do need another husband. i had one once, but i killed him. you did? alayne said, shocked. oh, yes. he died on top of me. in me, if truth be told. you do know what goes on in a marriage bed, i hope? she thought of tyrion, and of the hound and how he'd kissed her, and gave a nod. that must have been dreadful, my lady. him dying. there, i mean, whilst... whilst he was... ... fucking me? she shrugged. it was disconcerting, certainly. not to mention discourteous. he did not even have the common decency to plant a child in me. old men have weak seed. so here i am, a widow, but scarce used. harry could have done much worse. i daresay that he will. lady waynwood will most like marry him to one of her granddaughters, or one of bronze yohn's. as you say, my lady. alayne remembered petyr's warning. randa. come now, you can say it. ran. da. randa. much better. i fear i must apologize to you. you will think me a dreadful slut, i know, but i bedded that pretty boy marillion. i did not know he was a monster. he sang beautifully, and could do the sweetest things with his fingers. i would never have taken him to bed if i had known he was going to push lady lysa through the moon door. i do not bed monsters, as a rule. she studied alayne 's face and chest. you are prettier than me, but my breasts are larger. the maesters say large breasts produce no more milk than small ones, but i do not believe it. have you ever known a wet nurse with small teats? yours are ample for a girl your age, but as they are bastard breasts, i shan't concern myself with them. myranda edged her mule closer. you know our mya's not a maid, i trust? she did. fat maddy had whispered it to her, one time when mya brought up their supplies. maddy told me. of course she did. she has a mouth as big as her thighs, and her thighs are enormous. mychel redfort was the one. he used to be lyn corbray's squire. a real squire, not like that loutish lad ser lyn's got squiring for him now. he only took that one on for coin, they say. mychel was the best young swordsman in the vale, and gallant... or so poor mya thought, till he wed one of bronze yohn's daughters. lord horton gave him no choice in the matter, i am sure, but it was still a cruel thing to do to mya. ser lothor is fond of her. alayne glanced down at the mule girl, twenty steps below. more than fond. lothor brune? myranda raised an eyebrow. does she know? she did not wait for an answer. he has no hope, poor man. my father's tried to make a match for mya, but she'll have none of them. she is half mule, that one. despite herself, alayne found herself warming to the older girl. she had not had a friend to gossip with since poor jeyne poole. do you think ser lothor likes her as she is, in mail and leather? she asked the older girl, who seemed so worldly-wise. or does he dream of her draped in silks and velvets? he's a man. he dreams of her naked. she is trying to make me blush again. lady myranda must have heard her thoughts. you do turn such a pretty shade of pink. when i blush i look quite like an apple. i have not blushed for years, though. she leaned closer. does your father plan to wed again? my father? alayne had never considered that. somehow the notion made her squirm. she found herself remembering the look on lysa arryn's face as she'd tumbled through the moon door. we all know how devoted he was to lady lysa, said myranda, but he cannot mourn forever. he needs a pretty young wife to wash away his grief. i imagine he could have his pick of half the noble maidens in the vale. who could be a better husband than our own bold lord protector? though i do wish he had a better name than littlefinger. how little is it, do you know? his finger? she blushed again. i don't... i never... lady myranda laughed so loud that mya stone glanced back at them. never you mind, alayne, i'm sure it's large enough. they passed beneath a wind-carved arch, where long icicles clung to the pale stone, dripping down on them. on the far side the path narrowed and plunged down sharply for a hundred feet or more. myranda was forced to drop back. alayne gave the mule his head. the steepness of this part of the descent made her cling tightly to her saddle. the steps here had been worn smooth by the iron-shod hooves of all the mules who'd passed this way, until they resembled a series of shallow stone bowls. water filled the bottoms of the bowls, glimmering golden in the afternoon sun. it is water now, alayne thought, but come dark, all of it will turn to ice. she realized that she was holding her breath, and let it out. mya stone and lord robert had almost reached the rock spire where the slope leveled off again. she tried to look at them, and only them. i will not fall, she told herself. mya's mule will see me through. the wind skirled around her, as she bumped and scraped her way down step by step. it seemed to take a lifetime. then all at once she was at the bottom with mya and her little lord, huddled beneath a twisted, rocky spire. ahead stretched a high stone saddle, narrow and icy. alayne could hear the wind shrieking, and feel it plucking at her cloak. she remembered this place from her ascent. it had frightened her then, and it frightened her now. it is wider than it looks, mya was telling lord robert in a cheerful voice. a yard across, and no more than eight yards long, that's nothing. nothing, robert said. his hand was shaking. oh, no, alayne thought. please. not here. not now. it's best to lead the mules across, mya said. if it please my lord, i'll take mine over first, then come back for yours. lord robert did not answer. he was staring at the narrow saddle with his reddened eyes. i shan't be long, my lord, mya promised, but alayne doubted that the boy could even hear her. when the bastard girl led her mule out from beneath the shelter of the spire, the wind caught her in its teeth. her cloak lifted, twisting and flapping in the air. mya staggered, and for half a heartbeat it seemed as if she would be blown over the precipice, but somehow she regained her balance and went on. alayne took robert's gloved hand in her own to stop his shaking. sweetrobin, she said, i'm scared. hold my hand, and help me get across. i know you're not afraid. he looked at her, his pupils small dark pinpricks in eyes as big and white as eggs. i'm not? not you. you're my winged knight, ser sweetrobin. the winged knight could fly, robert whispered. higher than the mountains. she gave his hand a squeeze. lady myranda had joined them by the spire. he could, she echoed, when she saw what was happening. ser sweetrobin, lord robert said, and alayne knew that she dare not wait for mya to return. she helped the boy dismount, and hand in hand they walked out onto the bare stone saddle, their cloaks snapping and flapping behind them. all around was empty air and sky, the ground falling away sharply to either side. there was ice underfoot, and broken stones just waiting to turn an ankle, and the wind was howling fiercely. it sounds like a wolf, thought sansa. a ghost wolf, big as mountains. and then they were on the other side, and mya stone was laughing and lifting robert for a hug. be careful, alayne told her. he can hurt you, flailing. you wouldn't think so, but he can. they found a place for him, a cleft in the rock to keep him out of the cold wind. alayne tended him until the shaking passed, whilst mya went back to help the others cross. fresh mules awaited them at snow, and a hot meal of stewed goat and onions. she ate with mya and myranda. so you're brave as well as beautiful, myranda said to her. no. the compliment made her blush. i'm not. i was so scared. i don't think i could have crossed without lord robert. she turned to mya stone. you almost fell. you're mistaken. i never fall. mya's hair had tumbled across her cheek, hiding one eye. almost, i said. i saw you. weren't you afraid? mya shook her head. i remember a man throwing me in the air when i was very little. he stands as tall as the sky, and he throws me up so high it feels as though i'm flying. we're both laughing, laughing so much that i can hardly catch a breath, and finally i laugh so hard i wet myself, but that only makes him laugh the louder. i was never afraid when he was throwing me. i knew that he would always be there to catch me. she pushed her hair back. then one day he wasn't. men come and go. they lie, or die, or leave you. a mountain is not a man, though, and a stone is a mountain's daughter. i trust my father, and i trust my mules. i won't fall. she put her hand on a jagged spur of rock, and got to her feet. best finish. we have a long way yet to go, and i can smell a storm. the snow began to fall as they were leaving stone, the largest and lowest of the three waycastles that defended the approaches to the eyrie. dusk was settling by then. lady myranda suggested that perhaps they might turn back, spend the night at stone, and resume their descent when the sun came up, but mya would not hear of it. the snow might be five feet deep by then, and the steps treacherous even for my mules, she said. we will do better to press on. we'll take it slow. and so they did. below stone the steps were broader and less steep, winding in and out of the tall pines and grey-green sentinels that cloaked the lower slopes of the giant's lance. mya's mules knew every root and rock on the way down, it seemed, and any they forgot the bastard girl remembered. half the night was gone before they sighted the lights of the gates of the moon through the falling snow. the last part of their journey was the most peaceful. the snow fell steadily, cloaking all the world in white. sweetrobin drifted to sleep in the saddle, swaying back and forth with the motion of his mule. even lady myranda began to yawn and complain of being weary. we have apartments prepared for all of you, she told alayne, but if you like you may share my bed tonight. it's large enough for four. i should be honored, my lady. randa. count yourself fortunate that i'm so tired. all i want to do is curl up and go to sleep. usually when ladies share my bed they have to pay a pillow tax and tell me all about the wicked things they've done. what if they haven't done any wicked things? why, then they must confess all the wicked things they want to do. not you, of course. i can see how virtuous you are just by looking at those rosy cheeks and big blue eyes of yours. she yawned again. i hope your feet are warm. i do hate bedmaids with cold feet. by the time they finally reached her father's castle, lady myranda was drowsing too, and alayne was dreaming of her bed. it will be a featherbed, she told herself, soft and warm and deep, piled high with furs. i will dream a sweet dream, and when i wake there will be dogs barking, women gossiping beside the well, swords ringing in the yard. and later there will be a feast, with music and dancing. after the deathly silence of the eyrie, she yearned for shouts and laughter. as the riders were climbing off their mules, however, one of petyr's guardsmen emerged from within the keep. lady alayne, he said, the lord protector has been waiting for you. he's back? she said, startled. at evenfall. you'll find him in the west tower. the hour was closer to dawn than to dusk, and most of the castle was asleep, but not petyr baelish. alayne found him seated by a crackling fire, drinking hot mulled wine with three men she did not know. they all rose when she entered, and petyr smiled warmly. alayne. come, give your father a kiss. she hugged him dutifully and kissed him on the cheek. i am sorry to intrude, father. no one told me you had company. you are never an intrusion, sweetling. i was just now telling these good knights what a dutiful daughter i had. dutiful and beautiful, said an elegant young knight whose thick blond mane cascaded down well past his shoulders. aye, said the second knight, a burly fellow with a thick salt-and-pepper beard, a red nose bulbous with broken veins, and gnarled hands as large as hams. you left out that part, m'lord. i would do the same if she were my daughter, said the last knight, a short, wiry man with a wry smile, pointed nose, and bristly orange hair. particularly around louts like us. alayne laughed. are you louts? she said, teasing. why, i took the three of you for gallant knights. knights they are, said petyr. their gallantry has yet to be demonstrated, but we may hope. allow me to present ser byron, ser morgarth, and ser shadrich. sers, the lady alayne, my natural and very clever daughter... with whom i must needs confer, if you will be so good as to excuse us. the three knights bowed and withdrew, though the tall one with the blond hair kissed her hand before taking his leave. hedge knights? said alayne, when the door had closed. hungry knights. i thought it best that we have a few more swords about us. the times grow ever more interesting, my sweet, and when the times are interesting you can never have too many swords. the merling king's returned to gulltown, and old oswell had some tales to tell. she knew better than to ask what sort of tales. if petyr had wanted her to know, he would have told her. i did not expect you back so soon, she said. i am glad you've come. i would never have known it from the kiss you gave me. he pulled her closer, caught her face between his hands, and kissed her on the lips for a long time. now that's the sort of kiss that says welcome home. see that you do better next time. yes, father. she could feel herself blushing. he did not hold her kiss against her. you would not believe half of what is happening in king's landing, sweetling. cersei stumbles from one idiocy to the next, helped along by her council of the deaf, the dim, and the blind. i always anticipated that she would beggar the realm and destroy herself, but i never expected she would do it quite so fast. it is quite vexing. i had hoped to have four or five quiet years to plant some seeds and allow some fruits to ripen, but now... it is a good thing that i thrive on chaos. what little peace and order the five kings left us will not long survive the three queens, i fear. three queens? she did not understand. nor did petyr choose to explain. instead, he smiled and said, i have brought my sweet girl back a gift. alayne was as pleased as she was surprised. is it a gown? she had heard there were fine seamstresses in gulltown, and she was so tired of dressing drably. something better. guess again. jewels? no jewels could hope to match my daughter's eyes. lemons? did you find some lemons? she had promised sweetrobin lemon cake, and for lemon cake you needed lemons. petyr baelish took her by the hand and drew her down onto his lap. i have made a marriage contract for you. a marriage... her throat tightened. she did not want to wed again, not now, perhaps not ever. i do not... i cannot marry. father, i... alayne looked to the door, to make certain it was closed. i am married, she whispered. you know. petyr put a finger to her lips to silence her. the dwarf wed ned stark's daughter, not mine. be that as it may. this is only a betrothal. the marriage must needs wait until cersei is done and sansa's safely widowed. and you must meet the boy and win his approval. lady waynwood will not make him marry against his will, she was quite firm on that. lady waynwood? alayne could hardly believe it. why would she marry one of her sons to... to a... ... bastard? for a start, you are the lord protector's bastard, never forget. the waynwoods are very old and very proud, but not as rich as one might think, as i discovered when i began buying up their debt. not that lady anya would ever sell a son for gold. a ward, however... young harry's only a cousin, and the dower that i offered her ladyship was even larger than the one that lyonel corbray just collected. it had to be, for her to risk bronze yohn's wroth. this will put all his plans awry. you are promised to harrold hardyng, sweetling, provided you can win his boyish heart... which should not be hard, for you. harry the heir? alayne tried to recall what myranda had told her about him on the mountain. he was just knighted. and he has a bastard daughter by some common girl. and another on the way by a different wench. harry can be a beguiling one, no doubt. soft sandy hair, deep blue eyes, and dimples when he smiles. and very gallant, i am told. he teased her with a smile. bastard-born or no, sweetling, when this match is announced you will be the envy of every highborn maiden in the vale, and a few from the riverlands and the reach as well. why? alayne was lost. is ser harrold... how could he be lady waynwood's heir? doesn't she have sons of her own blood? three, petyr allowed. she could smell the wine on his breath, the cloves and nutmeg. daughters too, and grandsons. won't they come before harry? i don't understand. you will. listen. petyr took her hand in his own and brushed his finger lightly down the inside of her palm. lord jasper arryn, begin with him. jon arryn's father. he begot three children, two sons and a daughter. jon was the eldest, so the eyrie and the lordship passed to him. his sister alys wed ser elys waynwood, uncle to the present lady waynwood. he made a wry face. elys and alys, isn't that precious? lord jasper's younger son, ser ronnel arryn, wed a belmore girl, but only rang her once or twice before dying of a bad belly. their son elbert was being born in one bed even as poor ronnel was dying in another down the hall. are you paying close attention, sweetling? yes. there was jon and alys and ronnel, but ronnel died. good. now, jon arryn married thrice, but his first two wives gave him no children, so for long years his nephew elbert was his heir. meantime, elys was plowing alys quite dutifully, and she was whelping once a year. she gave him nine children, eight girls and one precious little boy, another jasper, after which she died exhausted. boy jasper, inconsiderate of the heroic efforts that had gone into begetting him, got himself kicked in the head by a horse when he was three years old. a pox took two of his sisters soon after, leaving six. the eldest married ser denys arryn, a distant cousin to the lords of the eyrie. there are several branches of house arryn scattered across the vale, all as proud as they are penurious, save for the gulltown arryns, who had the rare good sense to marry merchants. they're rich, but less than couth, so no one talks about them. ser denys hailed from one of the poor, proud branches... but he was also a renowned jouster, handsome and gallant and brimming with courtesy. and he had that magic arryn name, which made him ideal for the eldest waynwood girl. their children would be arryns, and the next heirs to the vale should any ill befall elbert. well, as it happened, mad king aerys befell elbert. you know that story? she did. the mad king murdered him. he did indeed. and soon after, ser denys left his pregnant waynwood wife to ride to war. he died during the battle of the bells, of an excess of gallantry and an axe. when they told his lady of his death she perished of grief, and her newborn son soon followed. no matter. jon arryn had gotten himself a young wife during the war, one he had reason to believe fertile. he was very hopeful, i'm sure, but you and i know that all he ever got from lysa were stillbirths, miscarriages, and poor sweetrobin. which brings us back to the five remaining daughters of elys and alys. the eldest had been left terribly scarred by the same pox that killed her sisters, so she became a septa. another was seduced by a sellsword. ser elys cast her out, and she joined the silent sisters after her bastard died in infancy. the third wed the lord of the paps, but proved barren. the fourth was on her way to the riverlands to marry some bracken when burned men carried her off. that left the youngest, who wed a landed knight sworn to the waynwoods, gave him a son that she named harrold, and perished. he turned her hand over and lightly kissed her wrist. so tell me, sweetling — why is harry the heir? her eyes widened. he is not lady waynwood's heir. he's robert's heir. if robert were to die... petyr arched an eyebrow. when robert dies. our poor brave sweetrobin is such a sickly boy, it is only a matter of time. when robert dies, harry the heir becomes lord harrold, defender of the vale and lord of the eyrie. jon arryn' s bannermen will never love me, nor our silly, shaking robert, but they will love their young falcon... and when they come together for his wedding, and you come out with your long auburn hair, clad in a maiden's cloak of white and grey with a direwo if emblazoned on the back... why, every knight in the vale will pledge his sword to win you back your birthright. so those are your gifts from me, my sweet sansa... harry, the eyrie, and winterfell. that's worth another kiss now, don't you think? 