i am looking for a maid of three-and-ten, she told the grey-haired goodwife beside the village well. a highborn maid and very beautiful, with blue eyes and auburn hair. she may have been traveling with a portly knight of forty years, or perhaps with a fool. have you seen her? not as i recall, ser, the goodwife said, knuckling her forehead. but i'll keep my eye out, that i will. the blacksmith had not seen her either, nor the septon in the village sept, the swineherd with his pigs, the girl pulling up onions from her garden, nor any of the other simple folk that the maid of tarth found amongst the daub-and- wattle huts of rosby. still, she persisted. this is the shortest road to duskendale, brienne told herself. if sansa came this way, someone must have seen her. at the castle gates she posed her question to two spearmen whose badges showed three red chevronels on ermine, the arms of house rosby. if she's on the roads these days she won't be no maid for long, said the older man. the younger wanted to know if the girl had that auburn hair between her legs as well. i will find no help here. as brienne mounted up again, she glimpsed a skinny boy atop a piebald horse at the far end of the village. i have not talked with that one, she thought, but he vanished behind the sept before she could seek him out. she did not trouble to chase after him. most like he knew no more than the others had. rosby was scarce more than a wide place in the road; sansa would have had no reason to linger here. returning to the road, brienne headed north and east past apple orchards and fields of barley, and soon left the village and its castle well behind. it was at duskendale that she would find her quarry, she told herself. if she came this way at all. i will find the girl and keep her safe, brienne had promised ser jaime, back at king's landing. for her lady mother's sake. and for yours. noble words, but words were easy. deeds were hard. she had lingered too long and learned too little in the city. i should have set out earlier... but to where? sansa stark had vanished on the night king joffrey died, and if anyone had seen her since, or had any inkling where she might have gone, they were not talking. not to me, at least. brienne believed the girl had left the city. if she were still in king's landing, the gold cloaks would have turned her up. she had to have gone elsewhere... but elsewhere is a big place. if i were a maiden newly flowered, alone and afraid, in desperate danger, what would i do? she had asked herself. where would i go? for her, the answer came easy. she would make her way back to tarth, to her father. sansa' s father had been beheaded whilst she watched, however. her lady mother was dead too, murdered at the twins, and winterfell, the great stark stronghold, had been sacked and burned, its people put to the sword. she has no home to run to, no father, no mother, no brothers. she might be in the next town, or on a ship to asshai; one seemed as likely as the other. even if sansa stark had wanted to go home, how would she get there? the kingsroad was not safe; even a child would know that. the ironborn held moat cailin athwart the neck, and at the twins sat the freys, who had murdered sansa's brother and lady mother. the girl could go by sea if she had the coin, but the harbor at king's landing was still in ruins, the river a jumble of broken quays and burned and sunken galleys. brienne had asked along the docks, but no one could remember a ship leaving on the night king joffrey died. a few trading ships were anchoring in the bay and off-loading by boat, one man told her, but more were continuing up the coast to duskendale, where the port was busier than ever. brienne's mare was sweet to look upon and kept a pretty pace. there were more travelers than she would have thought. begging brothers trundled by with their bowls dangling on thongs about their necks. a young septon galloped past upon a palfrey as fine as any lord's, and later she met a band of silent sisters who shook their heads when brienne put her question to them. a train of oxcarts lumbered south with grain and sacks of wool, and later she passed a swineherd driving pigs, and an old woman in a horse litter with an escort of mounted guards. she asked all of them if they had seen a highborn girl of three-and-ten years with blue eyes and auburn hair. none had. she asked about the road ahead as well. 'twixt here and duskendale is safe enough, one man told her, but past duskendale there's outlaws, and broken men in the woods. only the soldier pines and sentinels still showed green; the broadleaf trees had donned mantles of russet and gold, or else uncloaked themselves to scratch against the sky with branches brown and bare. every gust of wind drove swirling clouds of dead leaves across the rutted road. they made a rustling sound as they scuttled past the hooves of the big bay mare that jaime lannister had bestowed on her. as easy to find one leaf in the wind as one girl lost in westeros. she found herself wondering whether jaime had given her this task as some cruel jape. perhaps sansa stark was dead, beheaded for her part in king joffrey' s death, buried in some unmarked grave. how better to conceal her murder than by sending some big stupid wench from tarth to find her? jaime would not do that. he was sincere. he gave me the sword, and called it oathkeeper. anyway, it made no matter. she had promised lady catelyn that she would bring back her daughters, and no promise was as solemn as one sworn to the dead. the younger girl was long dead, jaime claimed; the arya the lannisters sent north to marry roose bolton's bastard was a fraud. that left only sansa. brienne had to find her. near dusk she saw a campfire burning by a brook. two men sat beside it grilling trout, their arms and armor stacked beneath a tree. one was old and one was somewhat younger, though far from young. the younger rose to greet her. he had a big belly straining at the laces of his spotted doeskin jerkin. a shaggy untrimmed beard covered his cheeks and chin, the color of old gold. we have trout enough for three, ser, he called out. it was not the first time brienne had been mistaken for a man. she pulled off her greathelm, letting her hair spill free. it was yellow, the color of dirty straw, and near as brittle. long and thin, it blew about her shoulders. i thank you, ser. the hedge knight squinted at her so earnestly that she realized he must be nearsighted. a lady, is it? armed and armored? illy, gods be good, the size of her. i took her for a knight as well, the older knight said, turning the trout. had brienne been a man, she would have been called big; for a woman, she was huge. freakish was the word she had heard all her life. she was broad in the shoulder and broader in the hips. her legs were long, her arms thick. her chest was more muscle than bosom. her hands were big, her feet enormous. and she was ugly besides, with a freckled, horsey face and teeth that seemed almost too big for her mouth. she did not need to be reminded of any of that. sers, she said, have you seen a maid of three-and-ten upon the road? she has blue eyes and auburn hair, and may have been in company with a portly red- faced man of forty years. the nearsighted hedge knight scratched his head. i recall no such maid. what sort of hair is auburn? browny red, said the older man. no, we saw her not. we saw her not, m'lady, the younger told her. come, dismount, the fish is almost done. are you hungry? she was, as it happened, but she was wary as well. hedge knights had an unsavory reputation. a hedge knight and a robber knight are two sides of the same sword, it was said. these two do not look too dangerous. might i know your names, sers? i have the honor to be ser creighton longbough, of whom the singers sing, said the big- bellied one. you will have heard of my deeds on the blackwater, mayhaps. my companion is ser illifer the penniless. if there was a song about creighton longbough, it was not one brienne had heard. their names meant no more to her than did their arms. ser creighton's green shield showed only a brown chief, and a deep gouge made by some battle-axe. ser illifer bore gold and ermine gyronny, though everything about him suggested that painted gold and painted ermine were the only sorts he'd ever known. he was sixty if he was a day, his face pinched and narrow beneath the hood of a patched roughspun mantle. mail-clad he went, but flecks of rust spotted the iron like freckles. brienne stood a head taller than either of them, and was better mounted and better armed in the bargain. if i fear the likes of these, i had as well swap my longsword for a pair of knitting needles. i thank you, good sers, she said. i will gladly share your trout. swinging down, brienne unsaddled her mare and watered her before hobbling her to graze. she stacked her arms and shield and saddlebags beneath an elm. by then the trout was crisply done. ser creighton brought her a fish, and she sat cross-legged on the ground to eat it. we are bound for duskendale, m'lady, longbough told her, as he pulled apart his own trout with his fingers. you would do well to ride with us. the roads are perilous. brienne could have told him more about the perils of the roads than he might have cared to know. i thank you, ser, but i have no need of your protection. i insist. a true knight must defend the gentler sex. she touched her sword hilt. this will defend me, ser. a sword is only as good as the man who wields it. i wield it well enough. as you will. it would not be courteous to argue with a lady. we will see you safe to duskendale. three together may ride more safely than one alone. we were three when we set out from riverrun, yet jaime lost his hand and cleos frey his life. your mounts could not keep up with mine. ser creighton's brown gelding was an old swaybacked creature with rheumy eyes, and ser illifer's horse looked weedy and half-starved. my steed served me well enough on the blackwater, ser creighton insisted. why, i did great carnage there and won a dozen ransoms. was m'lady familiar with ser herbert boiling? you shall never meet him now. i slew him where he stood. when swords clash, you shall ne'er find ser creighton longbough to the rear. his companion gave a dry chuckle. creigh, leave off. the likes o' her has no need for the likes o' us. the likes of me? brienne was uncertain what he meant. ser illifer crooked a bony finger at her shield. though its paint was cracked and peeling, the device it bore showed plain: a black bat on a field divided bendwise, silver and gold. you bear a liar's shield, to which you have no right. my grandfather's grandfather helped kill the last o' lothston. none since has dared to show that bat, black as the deeds of them that bore it. the shield was the one ser jaime had taken from the armory at harrenhal. brienne had found it in the stables with her mare, along with much else; saddle and bridle, chainmail hauberk and visored greathelm, purses of gold and silver and a parchment more valuable than either. i lost mine own shield, she explained. a true knight is the only shield a maiden needs, declared ser creighton stoutly. ser illifer paid him no mind. a barefoot man looks for a boot, a chilly man a cloak. but who would cloak themselves in shame? lord lucas bore that bat, the pander, and manfryd o' the black hood, his son. why wear such arms, i ask myself, unless your own sin is fouler still... and fresher. he unsheathed his dagger, an ugly piece of cheap iron. a woman freakish big and freakish strong who hides her own true colors. creigh, behold the maid o' tarth, who opened renly's royal throat for him. that is a lie. renly baratheon had been more than a king to her. she had loved him since first he came to tarth on his leisurely lord's progress, to mark his coming of age. her father welcomed him with a feast and commanded her to attend; elsewise she would have hidden in her room like some wounded beast. she had been no older than sansa, more afraid of sniggers than of swords. they will know about the rose, she told lord selwyn, they will laugh at me. but the evenstar would not relent. and renly baratheon had shown her every courtesy, as if she were a proper maid, and pretty. he even danced with her, and in his arms she'd felt graceful, and her feet had floated across the floor. later others begged a dance of her, because of his example. from that day forth, she wanted only to be close to lord renly, to serve him and protect him. but in the end she failed him. renly died in my arms, but i did not kill him, she thought, but these hedge knights would never understand. i would have given my life for king renly, and died happy, she said. i did no harm to him. i swear it by my sword. a knight swears by his sword, ser creighton said. swear it by the seven, urged ser illifer the penniless. by the seven, then. i did no harm to king renly. i swear it by the mother. may i never know her mercy if i lie. i swear it by the father, and ask that he might judge me justly. i swear it by the maiden and crone, by the smith and the warrior. and i swear it by the stranger, may he take me now if i am false. she swears well, for a maid, ser creighton allowed. aye. ser illifer the penniless gave a shrug. well, if she's lied, the gods will sort her out. he slipped his dagger back away. the first watch is yours. as the hedge knights slept, brienne paced restlessly around the little camp, listening to the crackle of the fire. i should ride on whilst i can. she did not know these men, yet she could not bring herself to leave them undefended. even in the black of night, there were riders on the road, and noises in the woods that might or might not have been owls and prowling foxes. so brienne paced, and kept her blade loose in its scabbard. her watch was easy, all in all. it was after that was hard, when ser illifer woke and said he would relieve her. brienne spread a blanket on the ground, and curled up to close her eyes. i will not sleep, she told herself, bone weary though she was. she had never slept easily in the presence of men. even in lord renly' s camps, the risk of rape was always there. it was a lesson she had learned beneath the walls of highgarden, and again when she and jaime had fallen into the hands of the brave companions. the cold in the earth seeped through brienne 's blankets to soak into her bones. before long every muscle felt clenched and cramped, from her jaw down to her toes. she wondered whether sansa stark was cold as well, wherever she might be. lady catelyn had said that sansa was a gentle soul who loved lemon cakes, silken gowns, and songs of chivalry, yet the girl had seen her father's head lopped off and been forced to marry one of his killers afterward. if half the tales were true, the dwarf was the cruelest lannister of all. if she did poison king joffrey, the imp surely forced her hand. she was alone and friendless at that court. in king's landing, brienne had hunted down a certain brella, who had been one of sansa's maids. the woman told her that there was little warmth between sansa and the dwarf. perhaps she had been fleeing him as well as joffrey' s murder. whatever dreams brienne dreamed were gone when dawn awoke her. her legs were stiff as wood from the cold ground, but no one had molested her, and her goods remained untouched. the hedge knights were up and about. ser illifer was cutting up a squirrel for breakfast, while ser creighton stood facing a tree, having himself a good long piss. hedge knights, she thought, old and vain and plump and nearsighted, yet decent men for all that. it cheered her to know that there were still decent men in the world. they broke their fast on roast squirrel, acorn paste, and pickles, whilst ser creighton regaled her with his exploits on the blackwater, where he had slain a dozen fearsome knights that she had never heard of. oh, it was a rare fight, m'lady, he said, a rare and bloody fray. he allowed that ser illifer had fought nobly in the battle as well. illifer himself said little. when time came to resume their journey, the knights fell in on either side of her, like guards protecting some great lady... though this lady dwarfed both of her protectors and was better armed and armored in the nonce. did anyone pass by during your watches? brienne asked them. such as a maid of three-and-ten, with auburn hair? said ser illifer the penniless. no, my lady. no one. i had a few, ser creighton put in. some farm boy on a piebald horse went by, and an hour later half a dozen men afoot with staves and scythes. they caught sight of our fire, and stopped for a long look at our horses, but i showed them a glimpse of my steel and told them to be along their way. rough fellows, by the look o' them, and desperate too, but ne'er so desperate as to trifle with ser creighton longbough. no, brienne thought, not so desperate as that. she turned away to hide her smile. thankfully, ser creighton was too intent on the tale of his epic battle with the knight of the red chicken to make note of the maiden's mirth. it felt good to have companions on the road, even such companions as these two. it was midday when brienne heard chanting drifting through the bare brown trees. what is that sound? ser creighton asked. voices, raised in prayer. brienne knew the chant. they are beseeching the warrior for protection, asking the crone to light their way. ser illifer the penniless bared his battered blade and reined in his horse to wait their coming. they are close now. the chanting filled the woods like pious thunder. and suddenly the source of the sound appeared in the road ahead. a group of begging brothers led the way, scruffy bearded men in roughspun robes, some barefoot and some in sandals. behind them marched threescore ragged men, women, and children, a spotted sow, and several sheep. several of the men had axes, and more had crude wooden clubs and cudgels. in their midst there rolled a two-wheeled wayn of grey and splintered wood, piled high with skulls and broken bits of bone. when they saw the hedge knights, the begging brothers halted, and the chanting died away. good knights, one said, the mother loves you. and you, brother, said ser illifer. who are you? poor fellows, said a big man with an axe. despite the chill of the autumnal wood, he was shirtless, and on his breast was carved a seven-pointed star. andal warriors had carved such stars in their flesh when first they crossed the narrow sea to overwhelm the kingdoms of the first men. we are marching to the city, said a tall woman in the traces of the wayn, to bring these holy bones to blessed baelor, and seek succor and protection from the king. join us, friends, urged a spare small man in a threadbare septon's robe, who wore a crystal on a thong about his neck. westeros has need of every sword. we were bound for duskendale, declared ser creighton, but mayhaps we could see you safely to king's landing. if you have the coin to pay us for this escort, added ser illifer, who seemed practical as well as penniless. sparrows need no gold, the septon said. ser creighton was lost. sparrows? the sparrow is the humblest and most common of birds, as we are the humblest and most common of men. the septon had a lean sharp face and a short beard, grizzled grey and brown. his thin hair was pulled back and knotted behind his head, and his feet were bare and black, gnarled and hard as tree roots. these are the bones of holy men, murdered for their faith. they served the seven even unto death. some starved, some were tortured. septs have been despoiled, maidens and mothers raped by godless men and demon worshipers. even silent sisters have been molested. our mother above cries out in her anguish. it is time for all anointed knights to forsake their worldly masters and defend our holy faith. come with us to the city, if you love the seven. i love them well enough, said illifer, yet i must eat. so must all the mother's children. we are bound for duskendale, ser illifer said flatly. one of the begging brothers spat, and a woman gave a moan. you are false knights, said the big man with the star carved on his chest. several others brandished their cudgels. the barefoot septon calmed them with a word. judge not, for judgment is the father's. let them pass in peace. they are poor fellows too, lost upon the earth. brienne edged her mare forward. my sister is lost as well. a girl of three-and-ten with auburn hair, fair to look upon. all the mother's children are fair to look upon. may the maiden watch over this poor girl... and you as well, i think. the septon lifted one of the traces of the wayn upon his shoulder, and began to pull. the begging brothers took up the chant once more. brienne and the hedge knights sat upon their horses as the procession moved slowly past, following the rutted road toward rosby. the sound of their chanting slowly dwindled away and died. ser creighton lifted one cheek off the saddle to scratch his arse. what sort of man would slay a holy septon? brienne knew what sort. near maidenpool, she recalled, the brave companions had strung a septon up by his heels from the limb of a tree and used his corpse for archery practice. she wondered if his bones were piled in that wayn with all the rest. a man would need to be a fool to rape a silent sister, ser creighton was saying. even to lay hands upon one... it's said they are the stranger's wives, and their female parts are cold and wet as ice. he glanced at brienne. uh... beg pardon. brienne spurred her mare toward duskendale. after a moment, ser illifer followed, and ser creighton came bringing up the rear. three hours later they came up upon another party struggling toward duskendale; a merchant and his serving men, accompanied by yet another hedge knight. the merchant rode a dappled grey mare, whilst his servants took turns pulling his wagon. four labored in the traces as the other two walked beside the wheels, but when they heard the sound of horses they formed up around the wagon with quarterstaffs of ash at the ready. the merchant produced a crossbow, the knight a blade. you will forgive me if i am suspicious, called the merchant, but the times are troubled, and i have only good ser shadrich to defend me. who are you? why, ser creighton said, affronted, i am the famous ser creighton longbough, fresh from battle on the blackwater, and this is my companion, ser illifer the penniless. we mean you no harm, said brienne. the merchant considered her doubtfully. my lady, you should be safe at home. why do you wear such unnatural garb? i am searching for my sister. she dared not mention sansa's name, with her accused of regicide. she is a highborn maid and beautiful, with blue eyes and auburn hair. perhaps you saw her with a portly knight of forty years, or a drunken fool. the roads are full of drunken fools and despoiled maidens. as to portly knights, it is hard for any honest man to keep his belly round when so many lack for food... though your ser creighton has not hungered, it would seem. i have big bones, ser creighton insisted. shall we ride together for a time? i do not doubt ser shadrich's valor, but he seems small, and three blades are better than one. four blades, thought brienne, but she held her tongue. the merchant looked to his escort. what say you, ser? oh, these three are nought to fear. ser shadrich was a wiry, fox-faced man with a sharp nose and a shock of orange hair, mounted on a rangy chestnut courser. though he could not have been more than five foot two, he had a cocksure manner. the one is old, t'other fat, and the big one is a woman. let them come. as you say. the merchant lowered his crossbow. as they resumed their journey, the hired knight dropped back and looked her up and down as if she were a side of good salt pork. you're a strapping healthy wench, i'd say. ser jaime's mockery had cut her deep; the little man's words hardly touched her. a giant, compared to some. he laughed. i am big enough where it counts, wench. the merchant called you shadrich. ser shadrich of the shady glen. some call me the mad mouse. he turned his shield to show her his sigil, a large white mouse with fierce red eyes, on bendy brown and blue. the brown is for the lands i've roamed, the blue for the rivers that i've crossed. the mouse is me. and are you mad? oh, quite. your common mouse will run from blood and battle. the mad mouse seeks them out. it would seem he seldom finds them. i find enough. 'tis true, i am no tourney knight. i save my valor for the battlefield, woman. woman was marginally better than wench, she supposed. you and good ser creighton have much in common, then. ser shadrich laughed. oh, i doubt that, but it may be that you and i share a quest. a little lost sister, is it? with blue eyes and auburn hair? he laughed again. you are not the only hunter in the woods. i seek for sansa stark as well. brienne kept her face a mask, to hide her dismay. who is this sansa stark, and why do you seek her? for love, why else? she furrowed her brow. love? aye, love of gold. unlike your good ser creighton, i did fight upon the blackwater, but on the losing side. my ransom ruined me. you know who varys is, i trust? the eunuch has offered a plump bag of gold for this girl you've never heard of. i am not a greedy man. if some oversized wench would help me find this naughty child, i would split the spider's coin with her. i thought you were in this merchant's hire. only so far as duskendale. hibald is as niggardly as he is fearful. and he is very fearful. what say you, wench? i know no sansa stark, she insisted. i am searching for my sister, a highborn girl... ... with blue eyes and auburn hair, aye. pray, who is this knight who travels with your sister? or did you name him fool? ser shadrich did not wait for her answer, which was good, since she had none. a certain fool vanished from king's landing the night king joffrey died, a stout fellow with a nose full of broken veins, one ser dontos the red, formerly of duskendale. i pray your sister and her drunken fool are not mistaken for the stark girl and ser dontos. that could be most unfortunate. he put his heels into his courser and trotted on ahead. even jaime lannister had seldom made brienne feel such a fool. you are not the only hunter in the woods. the woman brella had told her how joffrey had stripped ser dontos of his spurs, how lady sansa begged joffrey for his life. he helped her flee, brienne had decided, when she heard the tale. find ser dontos, and i will find sansa. she should have known there would be others who would see it too. some may even be less savory than ser shadrich. she could only hope that ser dontos had hidden sansa well. but if so, how will i ever find her? she hunched her shoulders down and rode on, frowning. night was gathering by the time their party came upon the inn, a tall, timbered building that stood beside a river junction, astride an old stone bridge. that was the inn's name, ser creighton told them: the old stone bridge. the innkeep was a friend of his. not a bad cook, and the rooms have no more fleas than most, he vouched. who's for a warm bed tonight? not us, unless your friend is giving them away, said ser illifer the penniless. we have no coin for rooms. i can pay for the three of us. brienne did not lack for coin; jaime had seen to that. in her saddlebags she'd found a purse fat with silver stags and copper stars, a smaller one stuffed with golden dragons, and a parchment commanding all loyal subjects of the king to assist the bearer, brienne of house tarth, who was about his grace's business. it was signed in a childish hand by tommen, the first of his name, king of the andals, the rhoynar, and the first men, and lord of the seven kingdoms. hibald was for stopping too, and bid his men to leave the wagon near the stables. warm yellow light shone through the diamond-shaped panes of the inn's windows, and brienne heard a stallion trumpet at the scent of her mare. she was loosening the saddle when a boy came out the stable door, and said, let me do that, ser. i am no ser, she told him, but you may take the horse. see that she is fed and brushed and watered. the boy reddened. beg pardons, m'lady. i thought... it is a common mistake. brienne gave him the reins and followed the others into the inn, with her saddlebags across a shoulder and her bedroll tucked up beneath one arm. sawdust covered the plank floor of the common room, and the air smelled of hops and smoke and meat. a roast was spitting and crackling over the fire, unattended for the moment. six locals sat about a table, talking, but they broke off when the strangers entered. brienne could feel their eyes. despite chainmail, cloak, and jerkin, she felt naked. when one man said, have a look at that, she knew he was not speaking of ser shadrich. the innkeep appeared, clutching three tankards in each hand and slopping ale at every step. do you have rooms, good man? the merchant asked him. i might, the innkeep said, for them as has coin. ser creighton longbough looked offended. naggle, is that how you would greet an old friend? 'tis me, longbough. 'tis you indeed. you owe me seven stags. show me some silver and i'll show you a bed. the innkeep set the tankards down one by one, slopping more ale on the table in the process. i will pay for one room for myself, and a second for my two companions. brienne indicated ser creighton and ser illifer. i shall take a room as well, said the merchant, for myself and good ser shadrich. my serving men will bed down in your stables, if it please you. the innkeep looked them over. it don't please me, but might be i'll allow it. will you be wanting supper? that's good goat on the spit, that is. i shall judge its goodness for myself, hibald announced. my men will content themselves with bread and drippings. and so they supped. brienne tried the goat herself, after following the innkeep up the steps, pressing some coins into his hand, and stashing her goods in the second room he showed her. she ordered goat for ser creighton and ser illifer as well, since they had shared their trout with her. the hedge knights and the septon washed down the meat with ale, but brienne drank a cup of goat's milk. she listened to the table talk, hoping against hope that she might hear something that would help her find sansa. you come from king's landing, one of the locals said to hibald. is it true that the kingslayer's been crippled? true enough, hibald said. he's lost his sword hand. aye, ser creighton said, chewed off by a direwolf, i hear, one of them monsters come down from the north. nought that's good ever come from the north. even their gods are queer. it was not a wolf, brienne heard herself say. ser jaime lost his hand to a qohorik sellsword. it is no easy thing to fight with your offhand, observed the mad mouse. bah, said ser creighton longbough. as it happens, i fight as well with either hand. oh, i have no doubt of that. ser shadrich lifted his tankard in salute. brienne remembered her fight with jaime lannister in the woods. it had been all that she could do to keep his blade at bay. he was weak from his imprisonment, and chained at the wrists. no knight in the seven kingdoms could have stood against him at his full strength, with no chains to hamper him. jaime had done many wicked things, but the man could fight! his maiming had been monstrously cruel. it was one thing to slay a lion, another to hack his paw off and leave him broken and bewildered. suddenly the common room was too loud to endure a moment longer. she muttered her good- nights and took herself up to bed. the ceiling in her room was low; entering with a taper in her hand, brienne had to duck or crack her head. the only furnishings were a bed wide enough to sleep six, and the stub of a tallow candle on the sill. she lit it with the taper, barred the door, and hung her sword belt from a bedpost. her scabbard was a plain thing, wood wrapped in cracked brown leather, and her sword was plainer still. she had bought it in king's landing, to replace the blade the brave companions had stolen. renly's sword. it still hurt, knowing she had lost it. but she had another longsword hidden in her bedroll. she sat on the bed and took it out. gold glimmered yellow in the candlelight and rubies smoldered red. when she slid oathkeeper from the ornate scabbard, brienne 's breath caught in her throat. black and red the ripples ran, deep within the steel. valyrian steel, spell- forged. it was a sword fit for a hero. when she was small, her nurse had filled her ears with tales of valor, regaling her with the noble exploits of ser galladon of morne, florian the fool, prince aemon the dragonknight, and other champions. each man bore a famous sword, and surely oathkeeper belonged in their company, even if she herself did not. you'll be defending ned stark's daughter with ned stark's own steel, jaime had promised. kneeling between the bed and wall, she held the blade and said a silent prayer to the crone, whose golden lamp showed men the way through life. lead me, she prayed, light the way before me, show me the path that leads to sansa. she had failed renly, had failed lady catelyn. she must not fail jaime. he trusted me with his sword. he trusted me with his honor. afterward she stretched out on the bed as best she could. for all its width it was not long enough, so brienne lay across it sideways. she could hear the clatter of tankards from below, and voices drifting up the steps. the fleas that longbough had spoken of put in their appearance. scratching helped keep her awake. she heard hibald mount the stairs, and sometime later the knights as well. ... i never knew his name, ser creighton was saying as he went by, but upon his shield he bore a blood-red chicken, and his blade was dripping gore... his voice faded, and somewhere up above, a door opened and closed. her candle burned out. darkness settled over the old stone bridge, and the inn grew so still that she could hear the murmur of the river. only then did brienne rise to gather up her things. she eased the door open, listened, made her way barefoot down the steps. outside she donned her boots and hurried to the stables to saddle her bay mare, asking a silent pardon of ser creighton and ser illifer as she mounted. one of hibald's serving men woke when she rode past him, but made no move to stop her. her mare's hooves rang upon the old stone bridge. then the trees closed in around her, black as pitch and full of ghosts and memories. i am coming for you, lady sansa, she thought as she rode into the darkness. be not afraid. i shall not rest until i've found you. the gates of duskendale were closed and barred. through the predawn gloom the town walls shimmered palely. on their ramparts, wisps of fog moved like ghostly sentinels. a dozen wayns and oxcarts had drawn up outside the gates, waiting for the sun to rise. brienne took her place behind some turnips. her calves ached, and it felt good to dismount and stretch her legs. before long another wayn came rumbling from the woods. by the time the sky began to lighten, the queue stretched back a quarter mile. the farm folk gave her curious glances, but no one spoke to her. it is for me to talk to them, brienne told herself, but she had always found it hard to speak with strangers. even as a girl she had been shy. long years of scorn had only made her shyer. i must ask after sansa. how else will i find her? she cleared her throat. goodwife, she said to the woman on the turnip cart, perhaps you saw my sister on the road? a young maid, three-and-ten and fair of face, with blue eyes and auburn hair. she may be riding with a drunken knight. the woman shook her head, but her husband said, then she's no maid, i'll wager. does the poor girl have a name? brienne 's head was empty. i should have made up some name for her. any name would do, but none came to her. no name? well, the roads are full of nameless girls. the lichyard's even fuller, said his wife. as dawn broke, guardsmen appeared on the parapets. the farmers climbed onto their wagons and shook the reins. brienne mounted as well and took a glance behind her. most of the queue waiting to enter duskendale were farm folk with loads of fruits and vegetables to sell. a pair of wealthy townsmen sat on well-bred palfreys a dozen places behind her, and farther back she spied a skinny boy on a piebald rounsey. there was no sign of the two knights, nor ser shadrich the mad mouse. the guards were waving through the wayns with scarce a look, but when brienne reached the gate she gave them pause. halt, you! the captain cried. a pair of men in chainmail hauberks crossed their spears to bar her way. state your purpose here. i seek the lord of duskendale, or his maester. the captain's eyes lingered on her shield. the black bat of lothston. those are arms of ill repute. they are not mine. i mean to have the shield repainted. aye? the captain rubbed his stubbled chin. my sister does such work, as it happens. you'll find her at the house with the painted doors, across from the seven swords. he gestured to the guards. let her pass, lads. it's a wench. the gatehouse opened on a market square, where those who had entered before her were unloading to hawk their turnips, yellow onions, and sacks of barleycorn. others were selling arms and armor, and very cheaply to judge from the prices they shouted out as she rode by. the looters come with the carrion crows after every battle. brienne walked her horse past mail shirts still caked with brown blood, dinted helms, notched longswords. there was clothing to be had as well: leather boots, fur cloaks, stained surcoats with suspicious rents. she knew many of the badges. the mailed fist, the moose, the white sun, the double-bladed axe, all those were northern sigils. tarly men had perished here as well, though, and many from the stormlands. she saw red and green apples, a shield that bore the three thunderbolts of leygood, horse trappings patterned with the ants of ambrose. lord tarly's own striding huntsman appeared on many a badge and brooch and doublet. friend or foe, the crows care not. there were pine and linden shields to be had for pennies, but brienne rode past them. she meant to keep the heavy oaken shield jaime had given her, the one he'd borne himself from harrenhal to king's landing. a pine shield had its advantages. it was lighter, and therefore easier to bear, and the soft wood was more like to trap a foeman's axe or sword. but oak gave more protection, if you were strong enough to bear its weight. duskendale was built around its harbor. north of town the chalk cliffs rose; to the south a rocky headland shielded the ships at anchor from storms coming up the narrow sea. the castle overlooked the port, its square keep and big drum towers visible from every part of town. in the crowded cobbled streets, it was easier to walk than ride, so brienne put her mare up in a stable and continued on afoot, with her shield slung across her back and her bedroll tucked up beneath one arm. the captain's sister was not hard to find. the seven swords was the largest inn in town, a four- story structure that towered over its neighbors, and the double doors on the house across the way were painted gorgeously. they showed a castle in an autumn wood, the trees done up in shades of gold and russet. ivy crawled up the trunks of ancient oaks, and even the acorns had been done with loving care. when brienne peered more closely, she saw creatures in the foliage: a sly red fox, two sparrows on a branch, and behind those leaves the shadow of a boar. your door is very pretty, she told the dark-haired woman who answered when she knocked. what castle is that meant to be? all castles, said the captain's sister. the only one i know is the dun fort by the harbor. i made t'other in my head, what a castle ought to look like. i never seen a dragon neither, nor a griffin, nor a unicorn. she had a cheerful manner, but when brienne showed her the shield her face went dark. my old ma used to say that giant bats flew out from harrenhal on moonless nights, to carry bad children to mad danelle for her cookpots. sometimes i'd hear them scrabbling at the shutters. she sucked her teeth a moment, thoughtful. what goes in its place? the arms of tarth were quartered rose and azure, and bore a yellow sun and crescent moon. but so long as men believed her to be a murderess, brienne dare not carry them. your door reminded me of an old shield i once saw in my father's armory. she described the arms as best she could recall them. the woman nodded. i can paint it straightaway, but the paint will need to dry. take a room at the seven swords, if it please you. i'll bring the shield to you by morning. brienne had not meant to overnight in duskendale, but it might be for the best. she did not know if the lord of the castle was in residence, or whether he would consent to see her. she thanked the painter and crossed the cobblestones to the inn. above its door, seven wooden swords swung beneath an iron spike. the whitewash that covered them was cracked and peeling, but brienne knew their meaning. they stood for the seven sons of darklyn who had worn the white cloaks of the kingsguard. no other house in all the realm could claim as many. they were the glory of their house. and now they are a sign above an inn. she pushed into the common room and asked the innkeep for a room and a bath. he put her on the second floor, and a woman with a liver-colored birthmark on her face brought up a wooden tub, and then the water, pail by pail. do any darklyns remain in duskendale? brienne asked as she climbed into the tub. well, there's darkes, i'm one myself. my husband says i was darke before we wed, and darker afterward. she laughed. can't throw a stone in duskendale without you hit some darke or darkwood or dargood, but the lordly darklyns are all gone. lord denys was the last o' them, the sweet young fool. did you know the darklyns were kings in duskendale before the andals come? you'd never know t'look at me, but i got me royal blood. can you see it? 'your grace, another cup of ale,' i ought to make them say. 'your grace, the chamber pot needs emptying, and fetch in some fresh faggots, your bloody grace, the fire's going out.' she laughed again and shook the last drops from the pail. well, there you are. is that water hot enough for you? it will serve. the water was lukewarm. i'd bring up more, but it'd just slop over. a girl the size o' you, you fill a tub. only a cramped small tub like this one. at harrenhal the tubs had been huge, and made of stone. the bathhouse had been thick with the steam rising off the water, and jaime had come walking through that mist naked as his name day, looking half a corpse and half a god. he climbed into the tub with me, she remembered, blushing. she seized a chunk of hard lye soap and scrubbed under her arms, trying to call up renly's face again. by the time the water had gone cold, brienne was as clean as she was like to get. she put on the same clothes she had taken off and girded her swordbelt tight around her hips, but her mail and helm she left behind, so as not to seem so threatening at the dun fort. it felt good to stretch her legs. the guards at the castle gates wore leather jacks with a badge that showed crossed warhammers upon a white saltire. i would speak with your lord, brienne told them. one laughed. best shout out loud, then. lord rykker rode to maidenpool with randyll tarly, the other said. he left ser rufus leek as castellan, to look after lady rykker and the young ones. it was to leek that they escorted her. ser rufus was a short, stout greybeard whose left leg ended in a stump. you will forgive me if i do not rise, he said. brienne offered him her letter, but leek could not read, so he sent her to the maester, a bald man with a freckled scalp and a stiff red mustache. when he heard the name hollard, the maester frowned with irritation. how often must i sing this song? her face must have given her away. did you think you were the first to come seeking after dontos? more like the twenty-first. the gold cloaks were here within days of the king's murder, with lord tywin's warrant. and what do you have, pray? brienne showed him the letter, with tommen's seal and childish signature. the maester hmmmmed and hrrrred, picked at the wax, and finally gave it back. it seems in order. he climbed onto a stool and gestured brienne to another. i never knew ser dontos. he was a boy when he left duskendale. the hollards were a noble house once, 'tis true. you know their arms? barry red and pink, with three golden crowns upon a blue chief. the darklyns were petty kings during the age of heroes, and three took ho hard wives. later their little realm was swallowed up by larger kingdoms, yet the darklyns endured and the hollards served them... aye, even in defiance. you know of that? a little. her own maester used to say that it was the defiance of duskendale that had driven king aerys mad. in duskendale they love lord denys still, despite the woe he brought them. 'tis lady serala that they blame, his myrish wife. the lace serpent, she is called. if lord darklyn had only wed a staunton or a stokeworth... well, you know how smallfolk will go on. the lace serpent filled her husband's ear with myrish poison, they say, until lord denys rose against his king and took him captive. in the taking, his master-at-arms ser symon hollard cut down ser gwayne gaunt of the kingsguard. for half a year aerys was held within these very walls, whilst the king's hand sat outside duskendale with a mighty host. lord tywin had sufficient strength to storm the town any time he wished, but lord denys sent word that at the first sign of assault he'd kill the king. brienne remembered what came next. the king was rescued, she said. barristan the bold brought him out. he did, the maester said. once lord denys lost his hostage, he opened his gates and ended his defiance rather than let lord tywin take the town. he bent the knee and begged for mercy, but the king was not of a forgiving mind. lord denys lost his head, as did his brothers and his sister, uncles, cousins, all the lordly darklyns. the lace serpent was burned alive, poor woman, though her tongue was torn out first, and her female parts, with which it was said that she had enslaved her lord. half of duskendale will still tell you that aerys was too kind to her. and the hollards? attainted and destroyed, said the maester. i was forging my chain at the citadel when this happened, but i have read the accounts of their trials and punishments. ser jon hollard the steward was wed to lord denys 's sister and died with his wife, as did their young son, who was half-darklyn. robin hollard was a squire, and when the king was seized he danced around him and pulled his beard. he died upon the rack. ser symon hollard was slain by ser barristan during the king's escape. the hollard lands were taken, their castle torn down, their villages put to the torch. as with the darklyns, house hollard was extinguished. save for dontos. true enough. young dontos was the son of ser steffon hollard, the twin brother of ser symon, who had died of a fever some years before and had no part in the defiance. aerys would have taken the boy's head off nonetheless, but ser barristan asked that his life be spared. the king could not refuse the man who'd saved him, so dontos was taken to king's landing as a squire. to my knowledge he never returned to duskendale, and why should he? he held no lands here, had neither kin nor castle. if dontos and this northern girl helped murder our sweet king, it seems to me that they would want to put as many leagues as they could betwixt themselves and justice. look for them in oldtown, if you must, or across the narrow sea. look for them in dome, or on the wall. look elsewhere. he rose. i hear my ravens calling. you will forgive me if i bid you good morrow. the walk back to the inn seemed longer than the walk to the dun fort, though perhaps that was only her mood. she would not find sansa stark in duskendale, that seemed plain. if ser dontos had taken her to oldtown or across the narrow sea, as the maester seemed to think, brienne's quest was hopeless. what was there for her in oldtown? she asked herself. the maester never knew her, no more than he knew hollard. she would not have gone to strangers. in king's landing, brienne had found one of sansa's former maids doing washing in a brothel. i served with lord renly before m'lady sansa, and both turned traitor, the woman brella complained bitterly. no lord will touch me now, so i have to wash for whores. but when brienne asked about sansa, she said, i'll tell you what i told lord tywin. that girl was always praying. she'd go to sept and light her candles like a proper lady, but near every night she went off to the godswood. she's gone back north, she has. that's where her gods are. the north was huge, though, and brienne had no notion which of her father's bannermen sansa might have been most inclined to trust. or would she seek her own blood instead? though all of her siblings had been slain, brienne knew that sansa still had an uncle and a bastard half brother on the wall, serving in the night's watch. another uncle, edmure tully, was a captive at the twins, but his uncle ser brynden still held riverrun. and lady catelyn's younger sister ruled the vale. blood calls to blood. sansa might well have run to one of them. which one, though? the wall was too far, surely, and a bleak and bitter place besides. and to reach riverrun the girl would need to cross the war-torn riverlands and pass through the lannister siege lines. the eyrie would be simpler, and lady lysa would surely welcome her sister's daughter... ahead, the alley bent. somehow brienne had taken a wrong turn. she found herself in a dead end, a small muddy yard where three pigs were rooting round a low stone well. one squealed at the sight of her, and an old woman drawing water looked her up and down suspiciously. what would you be wanting? i was looking for the seven swords. back the way you come. left at the sept. i thank you. brienne turned to retrace her steps, and walked headfirst into someone hurrying round the bend. the collision knocked him off his feet, and he landed on his arse in the mud. pardons, she murmured. he was only a boy; a scrawny lad with straight, thin hair and a sty beneath one eye. are you hurt? she offered a hand to help him up, but the boy squirmed back away from her on heels and elbows. he could not have been more than ten or twelve, though he wore a chainmail byrnie and had a longsword in a leather sheath slung across his back. do i know you? brienne asked. his face seemed vaguely familiar, though she could not think from where. no. you don't. you never... he scrambled to his feet. f-f-forgive me. my lady. i wasn't looking. i mean, i was, but down. i was looking down. at my feet. the boy took to his heels, plunging headlong back the way he'd come. something about him roused all of brienne's suspicions, but she was not about to chase him through the streets of duskendale. outside the gates this morning, that was where i saw him, she realized. he was riding a piebald rounsey. and it seemed as if she had seen him somewhere else as well, but where? by the time brienne found the seven swords again, the common room was crowded. four septas sat closest to the fire, in robes stained and dusty from the road. elsewhere locals filled the benches, sopping up bowls of hot crab stew with chunks of bread. the smell made her stomach rumble, but she saw no empty seats. then a voice behind her said, mtady, here, have my place. not until he hopped off the bench did brienne realize that the speaker was a dwarf. the little man was not quite five feet tall. his nose was veined and bulbous, his teeth red from sourleaf, and he was dressed in the brown roughspun robes of a holy brother, with the iron hammer of the smith dangling down about his thick neck. keep your seat, she said. i can stand as well as you. aye, but my head is not so apt to knock upon the ceiling. the dwarfs speech was coarse but courteous. brienne could see the crown of his scalp where he had shaved it. many holy brothers wore such tonsures. septa roelle once told her that it was meant to show that they had nothing to hide from the father. can't the father see through hair? brienne had asked. a stupid thing to say. she had been a slow child; septa roelle often told her so. she felt near as stupid now, so she took the little man's place at the end of the bench, signaled for stew, and turned to thank the dwarf. do you serve some holy house in duskendale, brother? 'twas nearer maidenpool, m'lady, but the wolves burned us out, the man replied, gnawing on a heel of bread. we rebuilt as best we could, until some sellswords come. i could not say whose men they were, but they took our pigs and killed the brothers. i squeezed inside a hollow log and hid, but t'others were too big. it took me a long time to bury them all, but the smith, he gave me strength. when that was done i dug up a few coins the elder brother had hid by and set off by myself. i met some other brothers going to king's landing. aye, there's hundreds on the roads. not only brothers. septons too, and smallfolk. sparrows all. might bel'ma sparrow too. the smith, he made me small enough. he chuckled. and what's your sad tale, m'lady? i am looking for my sister. she's highborn, only three-and-ten, a pretty maid with blue eyes and auburn hair. you may have seen her traveling with a man. a knight, perhaps a fool. there's gold for the man who helps me find her. gold? the brother gave her a red smile. a bowl of that crab stew would be enough reward for me, but i fear i cannot help you. fools i've met, and plenty, but not so many pretty maids. he cocked his head and thought a moment. there was a fool at maidenpool, now that i think of it. he was clad in rags and dirt, as near as i could tell, but under the dirt was motley. did dontos hollard wear motley? no one had told brienne that he did... but no one had ever said he didn't, either. why would the man be in rags, though? had some misfortune overtaken him and sansa after they fled king's landing? that could well be, with the roads so dangerous. it might not have been him at all. did this fool have a red nose, full of broken veins? i could not swear to that. i confess, i paid him little heed. i'd gone to maidenpool after burying my brothers, thinking that i might find a ship to take me to king's landing. i first glimpsed the fool down by the docks. he had a furtive air to him and took care to avoid lord tarly's soldiers. later, i encountered him again, at the stinking goose. the stinking goose? she said, uncertain. an unsavory place, the dwarf admitted. lord tarly's men patrol the port at maidenpool, but the goose is always full of sailors, and sailors have been known to smuggle men aboard their ships, if the price is right. this fool was seeking passage for three across the narrow sea. i oft saw him there, talking with oarsmen off the galleys. sometimes he would sing a funny song. seeking passage for three? not two? three, m'lady. that i'd swear to, by the seven. three, she thought. sansa, ser dontos... but who would be the third? the imp? did the fool find his ship? that i could not say, the dwarf told her, but one night some of lord tarly's soldiers visited the goose looking for him, and a few days later i heard another man boasting that he'd fooled a fool and had the gold to prove it. he was drunk, and buying ale for everyone. 'fooled a fool,' she said. what did he mean by that? i could not tell you. his name was nimble dick, though, that i do recall. the dwarf spread his hands. i fear that's all that i can offer you, aside from a small man's prayers. true to her word, brienne bought him his bowl of hot crab stew... and some hot fresh bread and a cup of wine as well. as he ate it, standing by her side, she mulled what he had told her. could the imp have joined them? if tyrion lannister were behind sansa's disappearance, and not dontos hollard, it stood to reason that they would need to flee across the narrow sea. when the little man was done with his bowl of stew, he finished what was left of hers as well. you should eat more, he said. a woman big as you needs t' keep her strength up. it is not far to maidenpool, but the road is perilous these days. i know. it was on that very road that ser cleos frey had died, and she and ser jaime had been taken by the bloody mummers. jaime tried to kill me, she remembered, though he was gaunt and weak, and his wrists were chained. it had been a close thing, even so, but that was before zollo hacked his hand off. zollo and rorge and shagwell would have raped her half a hundred times if ser jaime had not told them she was worth her weight in sapphires. m'lady? you look sad. are you thinking of your sister? the dwarf patted her on the hand. the crone will light your way to her, never fear. the maiden will keep her safe. i pray that you are right. i am. he bowed. but now i must be on my way. i've a long way yet to go to reach king's landing. do you have a horse? a mule? two mules. the little man laughed. there they are, at the bottom of my legs. they get me where i want t' go. he bowed, and waddled to the door, swaying with each step. she remained at the table after he had gone, lingering over a cup of watered wine. brienne did not oft drink wine, but once in a great while she found it helped to settle her belly. and where do i want to go? she asked herself. to maidenpool, to look for a man named nimble dick in a place called the stinking goose? when last she had seen maidenpool, the town had been a desolation, its lord shut up inside his castle, its smallfolk dead or fled or hiding. she remembered burned houses and empty streets, smashed and broken gates. feral dogs had skulked along behind their horses, whilst swollen corpses floated like huge pale water lilies atop the spring-fed pool that gave the town its name. jaime sang six maids in a pool, and laughed when i begged him to be quiet. and randyll tarly was at maidenpool as well, another reason for her to avoid the town. she might do better to take ship for gulltown or white harbor. i could do both, though. pay a call on the stinking goose and talk to this nimble dick, then find a ship at maidenpool to take me farther north. the common room had begun to empty. brienne tore a chunk of bread in half, listening to the talk at the other tables. most of it concerned the death of lord tywin lannister. murdered by his own son, they say, a local man was saying, a cobbler by the look of him, that vile little dwarf. and the king is just a boy, said the oldest of the four septas. who is to rule us till he comes of age? lord tywin' s brother, said a guardsman. or that lord tyrell, might be. or the kingslayer. not him, declared the innkeep. not that oathbreaker. he spat into the fire. brienne let the bread fall from her hands and wiped the crumbs off on her breeches. she'd heard enough. that night she dreamed herself in renly's tent again. all the candles were guttering out, and the cold was thick around her. something was moving through green darkness, something foul and horrible was hurtling toward her king. she wanted to protect him, but her limbs felt stiff and frozen, and it took more strength than she had just to lift her hand. and when the shadow sword sliced through the green steel gorget and the blood began to flow, she saw that the dying king was not renly after all but jaime lannister, and she had failed him. the captain's sister found her in the common room, drinking a cup of milk and honey with three raw eggs mixed in. you did beautifully, she said, when the woman showed her the freshly painted shield. it was more a picture than a proper coat of arms, and the sight of it took her back through the long years, to the cool dark of her father's armory. she remembered how she'd run her fingertips across the cracked and fading paint, over the green leaves of the tree, and along the path of the falling star. brienne paid the captain's sister half again the sum they had agreed, and slung the shield across one shoulder when she left the inn, after buying some hardbread, cheese, and flour from the cook. she left the town by the north gate, riding slowly through the fields and farms where the worst of the fighting had been, when the wolves came down on duskendale. lord randyll tarly had commanded joffrey's army, made up of westermen and stormlanders and knights from the reach. those men of his who had died here had been carried back inside the walls, to rest in heroes' tombs beneath the septs of duskendale. the northern dead, far more numerous, were buried in a common grave beside the sea. above the cairn that marked their resting place, the victors had raised a rough-hewn wooden marker. here lie the wolves was all it said. brienne stopped beside it and said a silent prayer for them, and for catelyn stark and her son robb and all the men who'd died with them as well. she remembered the night that lady catelyn had learned her sons were dead, the two young boys she'd left at winterfell to keep them safe. brienne had known that something was terribly amiss. she had asked her if there had been news of her sons. i have no sons but robb, lady catelyn had replied. she had sounded as if a knife were twisting her belly. brienne had reached across the table to give her comfort, but she stopped before her fingers brushed the older woman's, for fear that she would flinch away. lady catelyn had turned over her hands, to show brienne the scars on her palms and fingers where a knife once bit deep into her flesh. then she had begun to talk about her daughters. sansa was a little lady, she had said, always courteous and eager to please. she loved tales of knightly valor. she will grow into a woman far more beautiful than i, you can see that. i would often brush her hair myself. she had auburn hair, thick and soft... the red in it would shine like copper in the light of the torches. she had spoken of arya too, her younger daughter, but arya was lost, most likely dead by now. sansa, though... i will find her, my lady, brienne swore to lady catelyn' s restless shade. i will never stop looking. i will give up my life if need be, give up my honor, give up all my dreams, but i will find her. beyond the battleground the road ran beside the shore, between the surging grey-green sea and a line of low limestone hills. brienne was not the only traveler on the road. there were fishing villages up along the coast for many leagues, and the fisherfolk used this road to take their fish to market. she rode past a fishwife and her daughters, walking home with empty baskets on their shoulders. in her armor, they took her for a knight until they saw her face. then the girls whispered to one another and gave her looks. have you seen a maid of three-and-ten along the road? she asked them. a highborn maid with blue eyes and auburn hair? ser shadrich had made her wary, but she had to keep on trying. she may have been traveling with a fool. but they only shook their heads and giggled at her behind their hands. in the first village she came to, barefoot boys ran along beside her horse. she had donned her helm, stung by the giggles of the fisherfolk, so they took her for a man. one boy offered to sell her clams, one offered crabs, and one offered her his sister. brienne bought three crabs from the second boy. by the time she left the village it had begun to rain, and the wind was rising. storm coming, she thought, glancing out to sea. the raindrops pinged against the steel of her helm, making her ears ring as she rode, but it was better than being out there in a boat. an hour farther north, the road divided at a pile of tumbled stones that marked the ruins of a small castle. the right-hand fork followed the coast, meandering up along the shore toward crackclaw point, a dismal land of bogs and pine barrens; the left-hand ran through hills and fields and woods to maidenpool. the rain was falling more heavily by then. brienne dismounted and led her mare off the road to take shelter amongst the ruins. the course of the castle walls could still be discerned amongst the brambles, weeds, and wild elms, but the stones that had made them up were strewn like a child's blocks between the roads. part of the main keep still stood, however. its triple towers were grey granite, like the broken walls, but their merlons were yellow sandstone. three crowns, she realized, as she gazed at them through the rain. three golden crowns. this had been a hollard castle. ser dontos had been born here, like as not. she led her mare through the rubble to the keep's main entrance. of the door only rusted iron hinges remained, but the roof was still sound, and it was dry within. brienne tied her mare to a wall sconce, took off her helm, and shook out her hair. she was searching for some dry wood to light a fire when she heard the sound of another horse, coming closer. some instinct made her step back into the shadows, where she could not be seen from the road. this was the very road where she and ser jaime had been captured. she did not intend to suffer that again. the rider was a small man. the mad mouse, she thought, at her first sight of him. somehow he's followed me. her hand went to her sword hilt, and she found herself wondering if ser shadrich would think her easy prey just because she was a woman. lord grandison's castellan had once made that error. humfrey wagstaff was his name; a proud old man of five-and-sixty, with a nose like a hawk and a spotted head. the day they were betrothed, he warned brienne that he would expect her to be a proper woman once they'd wed. i will not have my lady wife cavorting about in man's mail. on this you shall obey me, lest i be forced to chastise you. she was sixteen and no stranger to a sword, but still shy despite her prowess in the yard. yet somehow she had found the courage to tell ser humfrey that she would accept chastisement only from a man who could outfight her. the old knight purpled, but agreed to don his own armor to teach her a woman's proper place. they fought with blunted tourney weapons, so brienne's mace had no spikes. she broke ser humfrey' s collarbone, two ribs, and their betrothal. he was her third prospective husband, and her last. her father did not insist again. if it was ser shadrich dogging her heels, she might well have a fight on her hands. she did not intend to partner with the man or let him follow her to sansa. he had the sort of easy arrogance that comes with skill at arms, she thought, but he was small. i'll have the reach on him, and i should be stronger too. brienne was as strong as most knights, and her old master-at-arms used to say that she was quicker than any woman her size had any right to be. the gods had given her stamina too, which ser goodwin deemed a noble gift. fighting with sword and shield was a wearisome business, and victory oft went to the man with most endurance. ser goodwin had taught her to fight cautiously, to conserve her strength while letting her foes spend theirs in furious attacks. men will always underestimate you, he said, and their pride will make them want to vanquish you quickly, lest it be said that a woman tried them sorely. she had learned the truth of that once she went into the world. even jaime lannister had come at her that way, in the woods by maidenpool. if the gods were good, the mad mouse would make the same mistake. he may be a seasoned knight, she thought, but he is no jaime lannister. she slid her sword out of its scabbard. but it was not ser shadrich's chestnut courser that drew up where the road forked, but a broken-down old piebald rounsey with a skinny boy upon his back. when brienne saw the horse she drew back in confusion. only some boy, she thought, until she glimpsed the face beneath his hood. the boy in duskendale, the one who bumped into me. it's him. the boy never gave the ruined castle a glance, but looked down one road, then the other. after a moment's hesitation, he turned the rounsey toward the hills and plodded on. brienne watched him vanish through the falling rain, and suddenly it came to her that she had seen this same boy in rosby. he is stalking me, she realized, but that's a game that two can play. she untied her mare, climbed back into the saddle, and went after him. the boy was staring at the ground as he rode, watching the ruts in the road fill up with water. the rain muffled the sound of her approach, and no doubt his hood played a part as well. he never looked back once, until brienne trotted up behind him and gave the rounsey a whack across the rump with the flat of her longsword. the horse reared, and the skinny boy went flying, his cloak flapping like a pair of wings. he landed in the mud and came up with dirt and dead brown grass between his teeth to find brienne standing over him. it was the same boy, beyond a doubt. she recognized the sty. who are you? she demanded. the boy's mouth worked soundlessly. his eyes were big as eggs. puh, was all he could manage. puh. his chainmail byrnie made a rattling sound when he shivered. puh. puh. please? said brienne. are you saying please? she laid the point of her sword on the apple of his throat. please tell me who you are, and why you're following me. not puh-puh-p lease. he stuck a finger in his mouth, and flicked away a clump of mud, spitting. puh-puh-pod. my name. puh-puh-podrick. puh-payne. brienne lowered her sword. she felt a rush of sympathy for the boy. she remembered a day at evenfall, and a young knight with a rose in his hand. he brought the rose to give to me. or so her septa told her. all she had to do was welcome him to her father's castle. he was eighteen, with long red hair that tumbled to his shoulders. she was twelve, tightly laced into a stiff new gown, its bodice bright with garnets. the two of them were of a height, but she could not look him in the eye, nor say the simple words her septa had taught her. ser ronnet. i welcome you to my lord father's hall. it is good to look upon your face at last. why are you following me? she demanded of the boy. were you told to spy upon me? do you belong to varys, or the queen? no. not neither. no one. brienne put his age at ten, but she was terrible at judging how old a child was. she always thought they were younger than they were, perhaps because she had always been big for her age. freakish big, septa roelle used to say, and mannish. this road is too dangerous for a boy alone. not for a squire. i'm his squire. the hand's squire. lord tywin? brienne sheathed her blade. no. not that hand. the one before. his son. i fought with him in the battle. i shouted 'halfman! halfman! ' the imp's squire. brienne had not even known he had one. tyrion lannister was no knight. he might have been expected to have a serving boy or two to attend him, she supposed, a page and a cupbearer, someone to help dress him. but a squire? why are you stalking after me? she said. what do you want? to find her. the boy got to his feet. his lady. you're looking for her. brella told me. she's his wife. not brella, lady sansa. so i thought, if you found her... his face twisted in sudden anguish. i'm his squire, he repeated, as the rain ran down his face, but he left me. the stone wall was old and crumbling, but the sight of it across the field made the hairs on brienne's neck stand up. that was where the archers hid and slew poor cleos frey, she thought... but half a mile farther on she passed another wall that looked much like the first and found herself uncertain. the rutted road turned and twisted, and the bare brown trees looked different from the green ones she remembered. had she ridden past the place where ser jaime had snatched his cousin's sword from its scabbard? where were the woods they'd fought in? the stream where they'd splashed and slashed at one another until they drew the brave companions down upon them? my lady? ser? podrick never seemed certain what to call her. what are you looking for? ghosts. a wall i rode by once. it does not matter. it was when ser jaime still had both his hands. how i loathed him, with all his taunts and smiles. stay quiet, podrick. there may still be outlaws in these woods. the boy looked at the bare brown trees, the wet leaves, the muddy road ahead. i have a longsword. i can fight. not well enough. brienne did not doubt the boy's courage, only his training. a squire he might be, in name at least, but the men he'd squired for had served him ill. she had gotten his story out of him in fits and starts on the road from duskendale. his was a lesser branch of house payne, an impoverished offshoot sprouted from the loins of a younger son. his father had spent his life squiring for richer cousins and had sired podrick upon a chandler's daughter he'd wed before going off to die in the greyjoy rebellion. his mother had abandoned him with one of those cousins when he was four, so she could run after a wandering singer who had put another baby in her belly. podrick did not remember what she looked like. ser cedric payne had been the nearest thing to a parent the boy had ever known, though from his stammered stories it seemed to brienne that cousin cedric had treated podrick more like a servant than a son. when casterly rock called its banners, the knight had taken him along to tend his horse and clean his mail. then ser cedric had been slain in the riverlands whilst fighting in lord tywin's host. far from home, alone, and penniless, the boy had attached himself to a fat hedge knight named ser lorimer the belly, who was part of lord lefford's contingent, charged with protecting the baggage train. the boys who guard the foodstuffs always eat the best, ser lorimer liked to say, until he was discovered with a salted ham he'd stolen from lord tywin's personal stores. tywin lannister chose to hang him as a lesson to other looters. podrick had shared the ham and might have shared the rope as well, but his name had saved him. ser kevan lannister took charge of him, and sometime later sent the boy to squire for his nephew tyrion. ser cedric had taught podrick how to groom a horse and check his shoes for stones, and ser lorimer had taught him how to steal, but neither had given him much training with a sword. the imp at least had dispatched him to the red keep's master-at-arms when they came to court. but during the bread riots ser aron santagar had been amongst those slain, and that had been the end of podrick's training. brienne cut two wooden swords from fallen branches to get a sense of podrick's skills. the boy was slow of speech but not of hand, she was pleased to learn. though fearless and attentive, he was also underfed and skinny, and not near strong enough. if he had survived the battle of the blackwater as he claimed, it could only be because no one thought him worth the killing. you may call yourself a squire, she told him, but i've seen pages half your age who could have beat you bloody. if you stay with me, you'll go to sleep with blisters on your hands and bruises on your arms most every night, and you'll be so stiff and sore you'll hardly sleep. you don't want that. i do, the boy insisted. i want that. the bruises and the blisters. i mean, i don't, but i do. ser. my lady. so far he had been true to his word, and brienne had been true to hers. podrick had not complained. every time he raised a new blister on his sword hand, he felt the need to show it to her proudly. he took good care of their horses too. he is still no squire, she reminded herself, but i am no knight, no matter how many times he calls me ser. she would have sent him on his way, but he had nowhere to go. besides, though podrick said he did not know where sansa stark had gone, it might be that he knew more than he realized. some chance remark, half- remembered, might hold the key to brienne's quest. ser? my lady? podrick pointed. there's a cart ahead. brienne saw it: a wooden oxcart, two-wheeled and high-sided. a man and a woman were laboring in the traces, pulling the cart along the ruts toward maidenpool. farm folk, by the look of them. slowly now, she told the boy. they may take us for outlaws. say no more than you must and be courteous. i will, ser. be courteous. my lady. the boy seemed almost pleased by the prospect of being taken for an outlaw. the farm folk watched them warily as they came trotting up, but once brienne made it plain that she meant them no harm, they let her ride beside them. we used to have an ox, the old man told her as they made their way through the weed-choked fields, lakes of soft mud, and burnt and blackened trees, but the wolves made off with him. his face was red from the effort of pulling the cart. they took off our daughter too and had their way with her, but she come wandering back after the battle down at duskendale. the ox never did. the wolves ate him, i expect. the woman had little to add. she was younger than the man by twenty years, but never spoke a word, only looked at brienne the same way she might have looked at a two-headed calf. the maid of tarth had seen such eyes before. lady stark had been kind to her, but most women were just as cruel as men. she could not have said which she found most hurtful, the pretty girls with their waspish tongues and brittle laughter or the cold-eyed ladies who hid their disdain behind a mask of courtesy. and common women could be worse than either. maidenpool was all in ruins when last i saw it, she said. the gates were broken and half the town was burned. they rebuilt it some. this tarly, he's a hard man, but a braver lord than mooton. there's still outlaws in the woods, but not so many as there was. tarly hunted down the worst o' them and shortened them with that big sword o' his. he turned his head and spat. you've seen no outlaws on the road? none. not this time. the farther they had come from duskendale, the emptier the road had been. the only travelers they'd glimpsed had melted away into the woods before they reached them, save for a big, bearded septon they met walking south with twoscore footsore followers. such inns as they passed had either been sacked and abandoned or turned into armed camps. yesterday they had encountered one of lord randyll's patrols, bristling with longbows and lances. the horsemen had surrounded them while their captain questioned brienne, but in the end he'd let them continue on their way. be wary, woman. the next men you meet may not be as honest as my lads. the hound has crossed the trident with a hundred outlaws, and it's said they're raping every wench they come upon and cutting off their teats for trophies. brienne felt obligated to pass along that warning to the farmer and his wife. the man nodded as she told him, but when she was done he spat again and said, dogs and wolves and lions, may the others take them all. these outlaws won't dare come too near to maidenpool. not so long as lord tarly has the rule there. brienne knew lord randyll tarly from her time with king renly's host. though she could not find it in herself to like the man, she could not forget the debt she owed him either. if the gods are good, we will pass maidenpool before he knows that i am there. the town will be restored to lord mooton once the fighting's done, she told the farmer. his lordship has been pardoned by the king. pardoned? the old man laughed. for what? sitting on his arse in his bloody castle? he sent men off to riverrun to fight but never went himself. lions sacked his town, then wolves, then sellswords, and his lordship just sat safe behind his walls. his brother 'ud never have hid like that. ser myles was bold as brass till that robert killed him. more ghosts, brienne thought. i am looking for my sister, a fair maid of three-and-ten. perhaps you've seen her? i've not seen no maids, fair nor foul. no one has. but she had to keep asking. mooton's daughter, she's a maid, the man went on. till the bedding, anyways. these eggs, they're for her wedding. her and tarly's son. the cooks will need eggs for cakes. they will. lord tarly's son. young dickon's to be wed. she tried to recall how old he was; eight or ten, she thought. brienne had been betrothed at seven, to a boy three years her senior, lord caron's younger son, a shy boy with a mole above his lip. they had only met the once, on the occasion of their betrothal. two years later he was dead, carried off by the same chill that took lord and lady caron and their daughters. had he lived, they would have been wed within a year of her first flowering, and her whole life would have been different. she would not be here now, dressed in man's mail and carrying a sword, hunting for a dead woman's child. more like she'd be at nightsong, swaddling a child of her own and nursing another. it was not a new thought for brienne. it always made her feel a little sad, but a little relieved as well. the sun was half- hidden behind a bank of clouds when they emerged from the blackened trees to find maidenpool before them, with the deep waters of the bay beyond. the town's gates had been rebuilt and strengthened, brienne saw at once, and crossbowmen walked its pink stone walls once more. above the gatehouse floated king tommen's royal banner, a black stag and golden lion combatant on a field divided gold and crimson. other banners displayed the tarly huntsman, but the red salmon of house mooton flew only from their castle on its hill. at the portcullis they came upon a dozen guards armed with halberds. their badges marked them for soldiers of lord tarly' s host, though none was tarly' s own. she saw two centaurs, a thunderbolt, a blue beetle and a green arrow, but not the striding huntsman of horn hill. their serjeant had a peacock on his breast, its bright tail faded by the sun. when the farmers drew their cart up he gave a whistle. what's this now? eggs? he tossed one up, caught it, and grinned. we'll take them. the old man squawked. our eggs is for lord mooton. for the wedding cakes and such. have your hens lay more. i haven't had an egg in half a year. here, don't say you weren't paid. he flung a handful of pennies at the old man's feet. the farmer's wife spoke up. that's not enough, she said. not near enough. i say it is, said the serjeant. for them eggs, and you as well. bring her here, boys. she's too young for that old man. two of the guards leaned their halberds against the wall and pulled the woman away from the cart, struggling. the farmer watched grey- faced, but dared not move. brienne spurred her mare forward. release her. her voice made the guards hesitate long enough for the farmer's wife to wrench free of their grasp. this is none of your concern, one man said. you mind your mouth, wench. brienne drew her sword instead. well now, the serjeant said, naked steel. seems to me i smell an outlaw. you know what lord tarly does with outlaws? he still held the egg he'd taken from the cart. his hand closed, and the yolk oozed through his fingers. i know what lord randyll does with outlaws, brienne said. i know what he does with rapers too. she had hoped the name might cow them, but the serjeant only flicked egg off his fingers and signaled to his men to spread out. brienne found herself surrounded by steel points. what was it you was saying, wench? what is it that lord tarly does to... ... rapers, a deeper voice finished. he gelds them or sends them to the wall. sometimes both. and he cuts fingers off thieves. a languid young man stepped from the gatehouse, a swordbelt buckled at his waist. the surcoat he wore above his steel had once been white, and here and there still was, beneath the grass stains and dried blood. his sigil was displayed across his chest: a brown deer, dead and bound and slung beneath a pole. him. his voice was a punch in her stomach, his face a blade in her bowels. ser hyle, she said stiffly. best let her by, lads, warned ser hyle hunt. this is brienne the beauty, the maid of tarth, who slew king renly and half his rainbow guard. she's as mean as she is ugly, and there's no one uglier... except perhaps for you, pisspot, but your father was the rear end of an aurochs, so you have a good excuse. her father is the evenstar of tarth. the guards laughed, but the halberds parted. shouldn't we seize her, ser? the serjeant asked. for killing renly? why? renly was a rebel. so were we all, rebels to a man, but now we're tommen's loyal lads. the knight waved the farm folk through the gate. his lordship's steward will be pleased to see those eggs. you'll find him in the market. the old man knuckled his forehead. my thanks, m'lord. you're a true knight, it's plain to see. come, wife. they put their shoulders to the cart again and rumbled through the gate. brienne trotted after them, with podrick at her heels. a true knight, she thought, frowning. inside the town she reined up. the ruins of a stable could be seen off to her left, fronting on a muddy alley. across from it three half-dressed whores stood on the balcony of a brothel, whispering to one another. one looked a bit like a camp follower who had once come up to brienne to ask if she had a cunt or a cock inside her breeches. that rounsey may be the most hideous horse i've ever seen, said ser hyle of podrick' s mount. i am surprised that you're not riding it, my lady. do you plan to thank me for my help? brienne swung down off her mare. she stood a head taller than ser hyle. one day i'll thank you in a melee, ser. the way you thanked red ronnet? hunt laughed. he had a full, rich laugh, though his face was plain. an honest face, she'd thought once, before she learned better; shaggy brown hair, hazel eyes, a little scar by his left ear. his chin had a cleft and his nose was crooked, but he did laugh well, and often. shouldn't you be watching your gate? he made a wry face at her. my cousin alyn is off hunting outlaws. doubtless he'll return with the hound's head, gloating and covered in glory. meanwhile, i am condemned to guard this gate, thanks to you. i hope you're pleased, my beauty. what is it that you're looking for? a stable. over by the east gate. this one burned. i can see that. what you said to those men... i was with king renly when he died, but it was some sorcery that slew him, ser. i swear it on my sword. she put her hand upon her hilt, ready to fight if hunt named her a liar to her face. aye, and it was the knight of flowers who carved up the rainbow guard. on a good day you might have been able to defeat ser emmon. he was a rash fighter, and he tired easily. royce, though? no. ser robar was twice the swordsman that you are... though you're not a swordsman, are you? is there such a word as swordswench? what quest brings the maid to maidenpool, i wonder? searching for my sister, a maid of three-and-ten, she almost said, but ser hyle would know she had no sisters. there's a man i seek, at a place called the stinking goose. i thought brienne the beauty had no use for men. there was a cruel edge to his smile. the stinking goose. an apt name, that... the stinking part, at least. it's by the harbor. first you will come with me to see his lordship. brienne did not fear ser hyle, but he was one of randyll tarly's captains. a whistle, and a hundred men would come running to defend him. am i to be arrested? what, for renly? who was he? we've changed kings since then, some of us twice. no one cares, no one remembers. he laid a hand lightly on her arm. this way, if you please. she wrenched away. i would thank you not to touch me. thanks at last, he said, with a wry smile. when last she had seen maidenpool, the town had been a desolation, a grim place of empty streets and burned homes. now the streets were full of pigs and children, and most of the burned buildings had been pulled down. vegetables had been planted in the lots where some once stood; merchant's tents and knight's pavilions took the place of others. brienne saw new houses going up, a stone inn rising where a wooden inn had burned, a new slate roof on the town sept. the cool autumn air rang to the sounds of saw and hammer. men carried timber through the streets, and quarrymen drove their wagons down muddy lanes. many wore the striding huntsman on their breasts. the soldiers are rebuilding the town, she said, surprised. they would sooner be dicing, drinking, and fucking, i don't doubt, but lord randyll believes in putting idle men to work. she had expected to be taken to the castle. instead, hunt led them toward the busy harbor. the traders had returned to maidenpool, she was pleased to see. a galley, a galleas, and a big two- masted cog were in port, along with a score of little fishing boats. more fishermen were visible out on the bay. if the stinking goose yields nothing, i will take passage on a ship, she decided. gulltown was only a short voyage away. from there she could make her way to the eyrie easily enough. they found lord tarly in the fishmarket, doing justice. a platform had been thrown up beside the water, from which his lordship could look down upon he men accused of crimes. to his left stood a long gallows, with ropes enough for twenty men. four corpses swung beneath it. one looked fresh, but the other three had plainly been there for some time. a crow was pulling strips of flesh from the ripe ruins of one of the dead men. the other crows had scattered, wary of the crowd of townsfolk who'd gathered in hopes of someone's being hanged. lord randyll shared the platform with lord mooton, a pale, soft, fleshy man in a white doublet and red breeches, his ermine cloak pinned at the shoulder by a red-gold brooch in the shape of a salmon. tarly wore mail and boiled leather, and a breastplate of grey steel. the hilt of a greatsword poked up above his left shoulder. heartsbane, it was named, the pride of his house. a stripling in a roughspun cloak and soiled jerkin was being heard when they came up. i never hurt no one, m'lord, brienne heard him say. i only took what the septons left when they run off. if you got to take my finger for that, do it. it is customary to take a finger from a thief, lord tarly replied in a hard voice, but a man who steals from a sept is stealing from the gods. he turned to his captain of guards. seven fingers. leave his thumbs. seven? the thief paled. when the guards seized hold of him he tried to fight, but feebly, as if he were already maimed. watching him, brienne could not help think of ser jaime, and the way he'd screamed when zollo's arakh came flashing down. the next man was a baker, accused of mixing sawdust in his flour. lord randyll fined him fifty silver stags. when the baker swore he did not have that much silver, his lordship declared that he could have a lash for every stag that he was short. he was followed by a haggard grey-faced whore, accused of giving the pox to four of tarly' s soldiers. wash out her private parts with lye and throw her in a dungeon, tarly commanded. as the whore was dragged off sobbing, his lordship saw brienne on the edge of the crowd, standing between podrick and ser hyle. he frowned at her, but his eyes betrayed not a flicker of recognition. a sailor off the galleas came next. his accuser was an archer of lord mooton's garrison, with a bandaged hand and a salmon on his breast. if it please m'lord, this bastid put his dagger through my hand. he said i was cheating him at dice. lord tarly took his gaze away from brienne to consider the men before him. were you? no, m'lord. i never. for theft, i will take a finger. lie to me and i will hang you. shall i ask to see these dice? the dice? the archer looked to mooton, but his lordship was gazing at the fishing boats. the bowman swallowed. might be i... them dice, they're lucky for me, 's true, but i... tarly had heard enough. take his little finger. he can choose which hand. a nail through the palm for the other. he stood. we're done. march the rest of them back to the dungeon, i'll deal with them on the morrow. he turned to beckon ser hyle forward. brienne followed. my lord, she said, when she stood before him. she felt eight years old again. my lady. to what do we owe this... honor? i have been sent to look for... for... she hesitated. how will you find him if you do not know his name? did you slay lord renly? no. tarly weighed the word. he is judging me, as he judged those others. no, he said at last, you only let him die. he had died in her arms, his life's blood drenching her. brienne flinched. it was sorcery. i never... you never? his voice became a whip. aye. you never should have donned mail, nor buckled on a sword. you never should have left your father's hall. this is a war, not a harvest ball. by all the gods, i ought to ship you back to tarth. do that and answer to the throne. her voice sounded high and girlish, when she wanted to sound fearless. podrick. in my bag you'll find a parchment. bring it to his lordship. tarly took the letter and unrolled it, scowling. his lips moved as he read. the king's business. what sort of business? lie to me and i will hang you. s-sansa stark. if the stark girl were here, i'd know it. she's run back north, i'll wager. hoping to find refuge with one of her father's bannermen. she had best hope she chooses the right one. she might have gone to the vale instead, brienne heard herself blurt out, to her mother's sister. lord randyll gave her a contemptuous look. lady lysa is dead. some singer pushed her off a mountain. littlefinger holds the eyrie now... though not for long. the lords of the vale are not the sort to bend their knees to some upjumped jackanapes whose only skill is counting coppers. he handed her back her letter. go where you want and do as you will... but when you're raped don't look to me for justice. you will have earned it with your folly. he glanced at ser hyle. and you, ser, should be at your gate. i gave you the command there, did i not? you did, my lord, said hyle hunt, but i thought you think too much. lord tarly strode away. lysa tully is dead. brienne stood beneath the gallows, the precious parchment in her hand. the crowd had dispersed, and the crows had returned to resume their feast. a singer pushed her off a mountain. had the crows dined on lady catelyn's sister too? you spoke of the stinking goose, my lady, said ser hyle. if you want me to show you   go back to your gate. a look of annoyance flashed across his face. a plain face, not an honest one. if that's your wish. it is. it was only a game to pass the time. we meant no harm. he hesitated. ben died, you know. cut down on the blackwater. farrow too, and will the stork. and mark mullendore took a wound that cost him half his arm. good, brienne wanted to say. good, he deserved it. but she remembered mullendore sitting outside his pavilion with his monkey on his shoulder in a little suit of chainmail, the two of them making faces at each other. what was it catelyn stark had called them, that night at bitterbridge? the knights of summer. and now it was autumn and they were falling like leaves... she turned her back on hyle hunt. podrick, come. the boy trotted after her, leading their horses. are we going to find the place? the stinking goose? i am. you are going to the stables, by the east gate. ask the stableman if there's an inn where we can spend the night. i will, ser. my lady. podrick stared at the ground as they went, kicking stones from time to time. do you know where it is? the goose? the stinking goose, i mean. no. he said he'd show us. that knight. ser kyle. hyle. hyle. what did he do to you, ser? i mean, my lady. the boy may be a stumbletongue, but he's not stupid. at highgarden, when king renly called his banners, some men played a game with me. ser hyle was one of them. it was a cruel game, hurtful and unchivalrous. she stopped. the east gate is that way. wait for me there. as you say, my lady. ser. no sign marked the stinking goose. it took her most of an hour to find it, down a flight of wooden steps beneath a knacker's barn. the cellar was dim and the ceiling low, and brienne thumped her head on a beam as she entered. no geese were in evidence. a few stools were scattered about, and a bench had been shoved up against one earthen wall. the tables were old wine casks, grey and wormholed. the promised stink pervaded everything. mostly it was wine and damp and mildew, her nose told her, but there was a little of the privy too, and something of the lichyard. the only drinkers were three tyroshi seamen in a corner, growling at each other through green and purple beards. they gave her a brief inspection, and one said something that made the others laugh. the proprietor stood behind a plank that had been placed across two barrels. she was a woman, round and pale and balding, with huge soft breasts swaying beneath a soiled smock. she looked as though the gods had made her out of uncooked dough. brienne did not dare to ask for water here. she bought a cup of wine and said, i am looking for a man called nimble dick. dick crabb. comes in most every night. the woman eyed brienne's mail and sword. if you're going to cut him, do it somewheres else. we don't want no trouble with lord tarly. i want to talk with him. why would i do him harm? the woman shrugged. if you would nod when he comes in i'd be thankful. how thankful? brienne put a copper star on the plank between them and found a place in the shadows with a good view of the steps. she tried the wine. it was oily on the tongue and there was a hair floating in it. a hair as slender as my hopes of finding sansa, she thought as she plucked it out. chasing after ser dontos had been fruitless, and with lady lysa dead the vale no longer seemed a likely refuge. where are you, lady sansa? did you run home to winterfell, or are you with your husband, as podrick seems to think? brienne did not want to chase the girl across the narrow sea, where even the language would be strange to her. i will be even more a freak there, grunting and gesturing to make myself understood. they will laugh at me, as they laughed at highgarden. a blush stole up her cheeks as she remembered. when renly donned his crown, the maid of tarth had ridden all the way across the reach to join him. the king himself had greeted her courteously and welcomed her to his service. not so his lords and knights. brienne had not expected a warm welcome. she was prepared for coldness, for mockery, for hostility. she had supped upon such meat before. it was not the scorn of the many that left her confused and vulnerable, but the kindness of the few. the maid of tarth had been betrothed three times, but she had never been courted until she came to highgarden. big ben bushy was the first, one of the few men in renly's camp who overtopped her. he sent his squire to her to clean her mail, and made her a gift of a silver drinking horn. ser edmund ambrose went him one better, bringing flowers and asking her to ride with him. ser hyle hunt outdid them both. he gave her a book, beautifully illuminated and filled with a hundred tales of knightly valor. he brought apples and carrots for her horses, and a blue silk plume for her helm. he told her the gossip of the camp and said clever, cutting things that made her smile. he even trained with her one day, which meant more than all the rest. she thought it was because of him that the others started being courteous. more than courteous. at table men fought for the place beside her, offering to fill her wine cup or fetch her sweetbreads. ser richard farrow played love songs on his lute outside her pavilion. ser hugh beesbury brought her a pot of honey as sweet as the maids of tarth. ser mark mullendore made her laugh with the antics of his monkey, a curious little black-and-white creature from the summer islands. a hedge knight called will the stork offered to rub the knots from her shoulders. brienne refused him. she refused them all. when ser owen inchfield seized her one night and pressed a kiss upon her, she knocked him arse-backwards into a cookfire. afterward she looked at herself in a glass. her face was as broad and bucktoothed and freckled as ever, big-lipped, thick of jaw, so ugly. all she wanted was to be a knight and serve king renly, yet now... it was not as if she were the only woman there. even the camp followers were prettier than she was, and up in the castle lord tyrell feasted king renly every night, whilst highborn maids and lovely ladies danced to the music of pipe and horn and harp. why are you being kind to me? she wanted to scream, every time some strange knight paid her a compliment. what do you want? randyll tarly solved the mystery the day he sent two of his men-at-arms to summon her to his pavilion. his young son dickon had overheard four knights laughing as they saddled up their horses, and had told his lord father what they said. they had a wager. three of the younger knights had started it, he told her: ambrose, bushy, and hyle hunt, of his own household. as word spread through the camp, however, others had joined the game. each man was required to buy into the contest with a golden dragon, the whole sum to go to whoever claimed her maidenhead. i have put an end to their sport, tarly told her. some of these... challengers... are less honorable than others, and the stakes were growing larger every day. it was only a matter of time before one of them decided to claim the prize by force. they were knights, she said, stunned, anointed knights. and honorable men. the blame is yours. the accusation made her flinch. i would never... my lord, i did nought to encourage them. your being here encouraged them. if a woman will behave like a camp follower, she cannot object to being treated like one. a war host is no place for a maiden. if you have any regard for your virtue or the honor of your house, you will take off that mail, return home, and beg your father to find a husband for you. i came to fight, she insisted. to be a knight. the gods made men to fight, and women to bear children, said randyll tarly. a woman's war is in the birthing bed. someone was coming down the cellar steps. brienne pushed her wine aside as a ragged, scrawny, sharp-faced man with dirty brown hair stepped into the goose. he gave the tyroshi sailors a quick look and brienne a longer one, then went up to the plank. wine, he said, and none o' your horse piss in it, thank'e. the woman gave brienne a look and nodded. i'll buy your wine, she called out, for a word. the man looked her over, his eyes wary. a word? i know a lot o' words. he sat down on the stool across from her. tell me which m'lady wants t' hear, and nimble dick will say it. i heard you fooled a fool. the ragged man sipped his wine, thinking. mighten be i did. or not. he wore a faded, torn doublet from which some lord's badge had been ripped. who is it wants t' know? king robert. she put a silver stag on the barrel between them. robert's head was on one side, the stag on the other. does he now? the man took the coin and spun it, smiling. i like to see a king dance, hey- nonny hey-nonny hey-nonny-ho. mighten be i saw this fool of yours. was there a girl with him? two girls, he said at once. two girls? could the other one be arya? well, the man said, i never seen the little sweets, mind you, but he was wanting passage for three. passage where? t'other side o' the sea, as i recall. do you remember what he looked like? a fool. he snatched the spinning coin off the table as it began to slow, and made it vanish. a frightened fool. frightened why? he shrugged. he never said, but old nimble dick knows the smell o' fear. he come here most every night, buying drinks for sailors, making japes, singing little songs. only one night some men come in with that hunter on their teats, and your fool went white as milk and got quiet till they left. he edged his stool closer to hers. that tarly's got soldiers crawling over the docks, watching every ship that comes or goes. man wants a deer, he goes t' the woods. he wants a ship, he goes t' the docks. your fool didn't dare. so i offered him some help. what sort of help? the sort that costs more than one silver stag. tell me, and you'll have another. let's see it, he said. she put another stag on the barrel. he spun it, smiled, scooped it up. a man who can't go t' the ships need for the ships t' come t' him. i told him i knew a place where that might happen. a hidden place, like. gooseprickles rose along brienne's arms. a smugglers' cove. you sent the fool to smugglers. him and them two girls. he chuckled. only thing, well, the place i sent them, been no ships there for a while. thirty years, say. he scratched his nose. what's this fool to you? those two girls are my sisters. are they, now? poor little things. had a sister once meself skinny girl with knobby knees, but then she grew a pair o' teats and a knight's son got between her legs. last i saw her she was off for king's landing t' make a living on her back. where did you send them? another shrug. as t' that, i can't recall. where? brienne slapped another silver stag down. he flicked the coin back at her with his forefinger. someplace no stag ever found... though a dragon might. silver would not get the truth from him, she sensed. gold might, or it might not. steel would be more certain. brienne touched her dagger, then reached into her purse instead. she found a golden dragon and put in on the barrel. where? the ragged man snatched up the coin and bit it. sweet. puts me in mind o' crackclaw point. up north o' here, 'tis a wild land o' hills and bogs, but it happens i was born and bred there. dick crabb, i'm named, though most call me nimble dick. she did not offer her own name. where in crackclaw point? the whispers. you heard o' clarence crabb, o' course. no. that seemed to surprise him. ser clarence crabb, i said. i got his blood in me. he was eight foot tall, and so strong he could uproot pine trees with one hand and chuck them half a mile. no horse could bear his weight, so he rode an aurochs. what does he have to do with this smugglers' cove? his wife was a woods witch. whenever ser clarence killed a man, he'd fetch his head back home and his wife would kiss it on the lips and bring it back t' life. lords, they were, and wizards, and famous knights and pirates. one was king o' duskendale. they gave old crabb good counsel. being they was just heads, they couldn't talk real loud, but they never shut up neither. when you're a head, talking's all you got to pass the day. so crabb's keep got named the whispers. still is, though it's been a ruin for a thousand years. a lonely place, the whispers. the man walked the coin deftly across his knuckles. one dragon by hisself gets lonely. ten, now... ten dragons are a fortune. do you take me for a fool? no, but i can take you to one. the coin danced one way, and back the other. take you to the whispers, m'lady. brienne did not like the way his fingers played with that gold coin. still... six dragons if we find my sister. two if we only find the fool. nothing if nothing is what we find. crabb shrugged. six is good. six will serve. too quick. she caught his wrist before he could tuck the gold away. do not play me false. you'll not find me easy meat. when she let go, crabb rubbed his wrist. bloody piss, he muttered. you hurt my hand. i am sorry for that. my sister is a girl of three-and-ten. i need to find her before     before some knight gets in her slit. aye, i hear you. she's good as saved. nimble dick is with you now. meet me by east gate at first light. i need t' see this man about a horse. east of maidenpool the hills rose wild, and the pines closed in about them like a host of silent grey-green soldiers. nimble dick said the coast road was the shortest way, and the easiest, so they were seldom out of sight of the bay. the towns and villages along the shore grew smaller as they went, and less frequent. at nightfall they would seek an inn. crabb would share the common bed with other travelers, whilst brienne took a room for her and podrick. cheaper if we all shared the same bed, m'lady, nimble dick would say. you could lay your sword between us. old dick's a harmless fellow. chivalrous as a knight, and honest as the day is long. the days are growing shorter, brienne pointed out. well, that may be. if you don't trust me in the bed, i could just curl up on the floor, m'lady. not on my floor. a man might think you don't trust me none. trust is earned. like gold. as you say, m'lady, said crabb, but up north where the road gives out, you'll need t' trust dick then. if i wanted t' take your gold at swordpoint, who's to stop me? you don't own a sword. i do. she shut the door between them and stood there listening until she was certain he had moved away. however nimble he might be, dick crabb was no jaime lannister, no mad mouse, not even a humfrey wagstaff he was scrawny and ill fed, his only armor a dinted halfhelm spotted with rust. in place of a sword, he carried an old, nicked dagger. so long as she was awake, he posed no danger to her. podrick, she said, there will come a time when there are no more inns to shelter us. i do not trust our guide. when we make camp, can you watch over me as i sleep? stay awake, my lady? ser. he thought. i have a sword. if crabb tries to hurt you, i could kill him. no, she said sternly. you are not to try and fight him. all i ask is that you watch him as i sleep, and wake me if he does anything suspicious. i wake quickly, you will find. crabb showed his true colors the next day, when they stopped to water the horses. brienne had to step behind some bushes to empty her bladder. as she was squatting, she heard podrick say, what are you doing? you get away from there. she finished her business, hiked up her breeches, and returned to the road to find nimble dick wiping flour off his fingers. you won't find any dragons in my saddlebags, she told him. i keep my gold upon my person. some of it was in the pouch at her belt, the rest hidden in a pair of pockets sewn inside her clothing. the fat purse inside her saddlebag was filled with coppers large and small, pennies and halfpennies, groats and stars... and fine white flour, to make it fatter still. she had bought the flour from the cook at the seven swords the morning she rode out from duskendale. dick meant no harm, m'lady. he wriggled his flour-spotted fingers to show he held no weapon. i was only looking to see if you had these dragons what you promised me. the world's full o' liars, ready to cheat an honest man. not that you're one. brienne hoped he was a better guide than he was a thief. we had best be going. she mounted up again. dick would oft sing as they rode along together; never a whole song, only a snatch of this and a verse of that. she suspected that he meant to charm her, to put her off her guard. sometimes he would try to get her and podrick to sing along with him, to no avail. the boy was too shy and tongue-tied, and brienne did not sing. did you sing for your father? lady stark had asked her once, at riverrun. did you sing for renly? she had not, not ever, though she had wanted... she had wanted... when he was not singing, nimble dick would talk, regaling them with tales of crackclaw point. every gloomy valley had its lord, he said, the lot of them united only by their mistrust of outsiders. in their veins the blood of the first men ran dark and strong. the andals tried t' take crackclaw, but we bled them in the valleys and drowned them in the bogs. only what their sons couldn't win with swords, their pretty daughters won with kisses. they married into the houses they couldn't conquer, aye. the darklyn kings of duskendale had tried to impose their rule on crackclaw point; the mootons of maidenpool had tried as well, and later the haughty celtigars of crab isle. but the crackclaws knew their bogs and forests as no outsider could, and if hard pressed would vanish into the caverns that honeycombed their hills. when not fighting would-be conquerors, they fought each other. their blood feuds were as deep and dark as the bogs between their hills. from time to time some champion would bring peace to the point, but it never lasted longer than his lifetime. lord lucifer hardy, he was a great one, and the brothers brune as well. old crackbones even more so, but the crabbs were the mightiest of all. dick still refused to believe that brienne had never heard of ser clarence crabb and his exploits. why would i lie? she asked him. every place has its local heroes. where i come from, the singers sing of ser galladon of morne, the perfect knight. ser gallawho of what? he snorted. never heard o' him. why was he so bloody perfect? ser galladon was a champion of such valor that the maiden herself lost her heart to him. she gave him an enchanted sword as a token of her love. the just maid, it was called. no common sword could check her, nor any shield withstand her kiss. ser galladon bore the just maid proudly, but only thrice did he unsheathe her. he would not use the maid against a mortal man, for she was so potent as to make any fight unfair. crabb thought that was hilarious. the perfect knight? the perfect fool, he sounds like. what's the point o' having some magic sword if you don't bloody well use it? honor, she said. the point is honor. that only made him laugh the louder. ser clarence crabb would have wiped his hairy arse with your perfect knight, m'lady. if they'd ever have met, there'd be one more bloody head sitting on the shelf at the whispers, you ask me. t should have used the magic sword,' it'd be saying to all the other heads. t should have used the bloody sword.' brienne could not help but smile. perhaps, she allowed, but ser galladon was no fool. against a foe eight feet tall mounted on an aurochs, he might well have unsheathed the just maid. he used her once to slay a dragon, they say. nimble dick was unimpressed. crackbones fought a dragon too, but he didn't need no magic sword. he just tied its neck in a knot, so every time it breathed fire it roasted its own arse. and what did crackbones do when aegon and his sisters came? brienne asked him. he was dead. m'lady must know that. crabb gave her a sideways look. aegon sent his sister up to crackclaw, that visenya. the lords had heard o' harren's end. being no fools, they laid their swords at her feet. the queen took them as her own men, and said they'd owe no fealty to maidenpool, crab isle, or duskendale. don't stop them bloody celtigars from sending men to t' eastern shore to collect his taxes. if he sends enough, a few come back to him... elsewise, we bow only to our own lords, and the king. the true king, not robert and his ilk. he spat. there was crabbs and brunes and boggses with prince rhaegar on the trident, and in the kingsguard too. a hardy, a cave, a pyne, and three crabbs, clement and rupert and clarence the short. six foot tall, he was, but short compared to the real ser clarence. we're all good dragon men, up crackclaw way. the traffic continued to dwindle as they moved north and east, until finally there were no inns to be found. by then the bayside road was more weeds than ruts. that night they took shelter in a fishing village. brienne paid the villagers a few coppers to allow them to bed down in a hay barn. she claimed the loft for podrick and herself, and pulled the ladder up after them. you leave me down here alone, i could bloody well steal your horses, crabb called up from below. best you get them up the ladder too, m'lady. when she ignored him, he went on to say, it's going to rain tonight. a cold hard rain. you and pods will sleep all snug and warm, and poor old dick will be shivering down here by myself. he shook his head, muttering, as he made a bed on a pile of hay. i never knew such a mistrustful maid as you. brienne curled up beneath her cloak, with podrick yawning at her side. i was not always wary, she might have shouted down at crabb. when i was a little girl i believed that all men were as noble as my father. even the men who told her what a pretty girl she was, how tall and bright and clever, how graceful when she danced. it was septa roelle who had lifted the scales from her eyes. they only say those things to win your lord father's favor, the woman had said. you'll find truth in your looking glass, not on the tongues of men. it was a harsh lesson, one that left her weeping, but it had stood her in good stead at harrenhal when ser hyle and his friends had played their game. a maid has to be mistrustful in this world, or she will not be a maid for long, she was thinking, as the rain began to fall. in the melee at bitterbridge she had sought out her suitors and battered them one by one, farrow and ambrose and bushy, mark mullendore and raymond nayland and will the stork. she had ridden over harry sawyer and broken robin potter's helm, giving him a nasty scar. and when the last of them had fallen, the mother had delivered connington to her. this time ser ronnet held a sword and not a rose. every blow she dealt him was sweeter than a kiss. loras tyrell had been the last to face her wroth that day. he'd never courted her, had hardly looked at her at all, but he bore three golden roses on his shield that day, and brienne hated roses. the sight of them had given her a furious strength. she went to sleep dreaming of the fight they'd had, and of ser jaime fastening a rainbow cloak about her shoulders. it was still raining the next morning. as they broke their fast, nimble dick suggested that they wait for it to stop. when will that be? on the morrow? in a fortnight? when summer comes again? no. we have cloaks, and leagues to ride. it rained all that day. the narrow track they followed soon turned to mud beneath them. what trees they saw were naked, and the steady rain had turned their fallen leaves into a sodden brown mat. despite its squirrel-skin lining, dick's cloak soaked through, and she could see him shivering. brienne felt a moment's pity for the man. he has not eaten well, that's plain. she wondered if there truly was a smugglers' cove, or a ruined castle called the whispers. hungry men do desperate things. this all might be some ploy to cozen her. suspicion soured her stomach. for a time it seemed as though the steady wash of rain was the only sound in the world. nimble dick plowed on, heedless. she watched closely, noting how he bent his back, as if huddling low in the saddle would keep him dry. this time there was no village close at hand when darkness came upon them. nor were there any trees to give them shelter. they were forced to camp amongst some rocks, fifty yards above the tideline. the rocks at least would keep the wind off. best we keep a watch tonight, m'lady, crabb told her, as she was struggling to get a driftwood fire lit. a place like this, there might be squishers. squishers? brienne gave him a suspicious look. monsters, nimble dick said, with relish. they look like men till you get close, but their heads is too big, and they got scales where a proper man's got hair. fish-belly white they are, with webs between their fingers. they're always damp and fishy-smelling, but behind these blubbery lips they got rows of green teeth sharp as needles. some say the first men killed them all, but don't you believe it. they come by night and steal bad little children, padding along on them webbed feet with a little squish-squish sound. the girls they keep to breed with, but the boys they eat, tearing at them with those sharp green teeth. he grinned at podrick. they'd eat you, boy. they'd eat you raw. if they try, i'll kill them. podrick touched his sword. you try that. you just try. squishers don't die easy. he winked at brienne. you a bad little girl, m'lady? no. just a fool. the wood was too damp to light, no matter how many sparks brienne struck off her flint and steel. the kindling sent up some smoke, but that was all. disgusted, she settled down with her back to a rock, pulled her cloak over herself, and resigned herself to a cold, wet night. dreaming of a hot meal, she gnawed on a strip of hard salt beef whilst nimble dick talked about the time ser clarence crabb had fought the squisher king. he tells a lively tale, she had to admit, but mark mullendore was amusing too, with his little monkey. it was too wet to see the sun go down, too grey to see the moon come up. the night was black and starless. crabb ran out of tales and went to sleep. podrick was soon snoring too. brienne sat with her back to the rock, listening to the waves. are you near the sea, sansa? she wondered. are you waiting at the whispers for a ship that will never come? who do you have with you? passage for three, he said. has the imp joined you and ser dontos, or did you find your little sister? the day had been a long one, and brienne was tired. even sitting up against the rock, with rain pattering softly all around her, she found her eyelids growing heavy. twice she dozed. the second time she woke all at once, heart pounding, convinced that someone was looming over her. her limbs were stiff, and her cloak had gotten tangled round her ankles. she kicked free of it and stood. nimble dick was curled against a rock, half-buried in wet, heavy sand, asleep. a dream. it was a dream. perhaps she had made a mistake in abandoning ser creighton and ser illifer. they had seemed like honest men. would that jaime had come with me, she thought... but he was a knight of the kingsguard, his rightful place was with his king. besides, it was renly that she wanted. i swore i would protect him, and i failed. then i swore i would avenge him, and i failed at that as well. i ran off with lady catelyn instead, and failed her too. the wind had shifted, and the rain was running down her face. the next day the road dwindled to a pebbled thread, and finally to a mere suggestion. near midday, it came to an abrupt end at the foot of a wind-carved cliff. above, a small castle stood frowning over the waves, its three crooked towers outlined against a leaden sky. is that the whispers? podrick asked. that look a bloody ruin t' you? crabb spat. that's the dyre den, where old lord brune keeps his seat. road ends here, though. it's the pines for us from here on. brienne studied the cliff. how do we get up there? easy. nimble dick turned his horse. stay close t' dick. the squishers are apt t' take the laggards. the way up proved to be a steep stony path hidden within a cleft in the rock. most of it was natural, but here and there steps had been carved to ease the climb. sheer walls of rock, eaten away by centuries of wind and spray, hemmed them in to either side. in some places they had assumed fantastic shapes. nimble dick pointed out a few as they climbed. there's an ogre's head, see? he said, and brienne smiled when she saw it. and that there's a stone dragon. t'other wing fell off when my father was a boy. above it, that's the dugs drooping down, like some hag's teats. he glanced back at her own chest. ser? my lady? said podrick. there's a rider. where? none of the rocks suggested a rider to her. on the road. not a rock rider. a real rider. following us. down there. he pointed. brienne twisted in her saddle. they had climbed high enough to see for leagues along the shore. the horse was coming up the same road they had taken, two or three miles behind them. again? she glanced at nimble dick suspiciously. don't squint at me, crabb said. he's naught t' do with old nimble dick, whoever he is. some man o' brune's, most like, come back from the wars. or one o' them singers, wandering from place to place. he turned his head and spat. he's no squisher, that's bloody certain. their sort don't ride horses. no, said brienne. on that, at least, they could agree. the last hundred feet of the climb proved the steepest and most treacherous. loose pebbles rolled beneath their horse's hooves and went rattling down the stony path behind them. when they emerged from the cleft in the rock, they found themselves under the castle walls. on a parapet above, a face peered down at them, then vanished. brienne thought it might have been a woman, and said as much to nimble dick. he agreed. brune's too old to go climbing wallwalks, and his sons and grandsons went off to the wars. no one left in there but wenches, and a snot-nosed babe or three. it was on her lips to ask her guide which king lord brune had espoused, but it made no matter any longer. brune's sons were gone; some might not be coming back. we will have no hospitality here tonight. a castle full of old men, women, and children was not like to open its doors to armed strangers. you speak of lord brune as if you know him, she said to nimble dick. might be i did, once. she glanced at the breast of his doublet. loose threads and a ragged patch of darker fabric showed where some badge had been torn away. her guide was a deserter, she did not doubt. could the rider behind them be one of his brothers-in-arms? we should ride on, he urged, before brune starts to wonder why we're here beneath his walls. even a wench can wind a bloody crossbow. dick gestured toward the limestone hills that rose beyond the castle, with their wooded slopes. no more roads from here on, only streams and game trails, but m'lady need not fear. nimble dick knows these parts. that was what brienne was afraid of. the wind was gusting along the top of the cliff, but all she could smell was a trap. what about that rider? unless his horse could walk on waves, he would soon be coming up the cliff. what about him? if he's some fool from maidenpool, he might not even find the bloody path. and if he does, we'll lose him in the woods. he won't have no road to follow there. only our tracks. brienne wondered if it wouldn't be better to meet the rider here, with her blade in hand. i'll look an utter fool if it is a wandering singer or one of lord brune's sons. crabb had the right of it, she supposed. if he is still behind us on the morrow, i can deal with him then. as you will, she said, turning her mare toward the trees. lord brune's castle dwindled at their backs, and soon was lost to sight. sentinels and soldier pines rose all around them, towering green-clad spears thrusting toward the sky. the forest floor was a bed of fallen needles as thick as a castle wall, littered with pinecones. the hooves of their horses seemed to make no sound. it rained a bit, stopped for a time, then started once again, but amongst the pines they scarce felt a drop. the going was much slower in the woods. brienne prodded her mare through the green gloom, weaving in and out amongst the trees. it would be very easy to get lost here, she realized. every way she looked appeared the same. the very air seemed grey and green and still. pine boughs scratched against her arms and scraped noisily against her newly painted shield. the eerie stillness grated on her more with every passing hour. it bothered nimble dick as well. late that day, as dusk was coming on, he tried to sing. a bear there was, a bear, a bear, all black and brown, and covered with hair, he sang, his voice as scratchy as a pair of woolen breeches. the pines drank his song, as they drank the wind and rain. after a little while he stopped. it's bad here, podrick said. this is a bad place. brienne felt the same, but it would not serve to admit it. a pine wood is a gloomy place, but in the end it's just a wood. there's naught here that we need fear. what about the squishers? and the heads? there's a clever lad, said nimble dick, laughing. brienne gave him a look of annoyance. there are no squishers, she told podrick, and no heads. the hills went up, the hills went down. brienne found herself praying that nimble dick was honest, and knew where he was taking them. by herself, she was not even certain she could have found the sea again. day or night, the sky was solid grey and overcast, with neither sun nor stars to help her find her way. they made camp early that night, after they came down a hill and found themselves on the edge of a glistening green bog. in the grey-green light, the ground ahead looked solid enough, but when they'd ridden out it had swallowed their horses up to their withers. they had to turn and fight their way back onto more solid footing. it's no matter, crabb assured them. we'll go back up the hill and come down another way. the next day was the same. they rode through pines and bogs, under dark skies and intermittent rain, past sinkholes and caves and the ruins of ancient strongholds whose stones were blanketed in moss. every heap of stones had a story, and nimble dick told them all. to hear him tell it, the men of crackclaw point had watered their pine trees with blood. brienne's patience soon began to fray. how much longer? she demanded finally. we must have seen every tree in crackclaw point by now. not hardly, said crabb. we're close now. see, the woods is thinning out. we're near the narrow sea. this fool he promised me is like to be my own reflection in a pond, brienne thought, but it seemed pointless to turn back when she had come so far. she was weary, though, she could not deny that. her thighs were hard as iron from the saddle, and of late she had been sleeping only four hours a night, whilst podrick watched over her. if nimble dick meant to try and murder them, she was convinced it would happen here, on ground that he knew well. he could be taking them to some robbers' den where he had kin as treacherous as he was. or perhaps he was just leading them in circles, waiting for that rider to catch up. they had not seen any sign of the man since leaving lord brune's castle, but that did not mean he had given up the hunt. it may be that i will need to kill him, she told herself one night as she paced about the camp. the notion made her queasy. her old master-at-arms had always questioned whether she was hard enough for battle. you have a man's strength in your arms, ser goodwin had said to her, more than once, but your heart is as soft as any maid's. it is one thing to train in the yard with a blunted sword in hand, and another to drive a foot of sharpened steel into a man's gut and see the light go out of his eyes. to toughen her, ser goodwin used to send her to her father's butcher to slaughter lambs and suckling pigs. the piglets squealed and the lambs screamed like frightened children. by the time the butchering was done brienne had been blind with tears, her clothes so bloody that she had given them to her maid to burn. but ser goodwin still had doubts. a piglet is a piglet. it is different with a man. when i was a squire young as you, i had a friend who was strong and quick and agile, a champion in the yard. we all knew that one day he would be a splendid knight. then war came to the stepstones. i saw my friend drive his foeman to his knees and knock the axe from his hand, but when he might have finished he held back for half a heartbeat. in battle half a heartbeat is a lifetime. the man slipped out his dirk and found a chink in my friend's armor. his strength, his speed, his valor, all his hard- won skill... it was worth less than a mummer's fart, because he flinched from killing. remember that, girl. i will, she promised his shade, there in the piney wood. she sat down on a rock, took out her sword, and began to hone its edge. i will remember, and i pray i will not flinch. the next day dawned bleak and cold and overcast. they never saw the sun come up, but when the blackness turned to grey brienne knew it was time to saddle up again. with nimble dick leading the way, they rode back into the pines. brienne followed close behind him, with podrick bringing up the rear upon his rounsey. the castle came upon them without warning. one moment they were in the depths of the forest, with nothing but pines to see for leagues and leagues. then they rode around a boulder, and a gap appeared ahead. a mile farther on, the forest ended abruptly. beyond was sky and sea... and an ancient, tumbledown castle, abandoned and overgrown on the edge of a cliff. the whispers, said nimble dick. have a listen. you can hear the heads. podrick's mouth gaped open. i hear them. brienne heard them too. a faint, soft murmuring that seemed to be coming from the ground as much as from the castle. the sound grew louder as she neared the cliffs. it was the sea, she realized suddenly. the waves had eaten holes in the cliffs below and were rumbling through caves and tunnels beneath the earth. there are no heads, she said. it's the waves you hear whispering. waves don't whisper. it's heads. the castle was built of old, unmortared stones, no two the same. moss grew thick in clefts between the rocks, and trees were growing up from the foundations. most old castles had a godswood. by the look of it, the whispers had little else. brienne walked her mare to the cliffs edge, where the curtain wall had collapsed. mounds of poisonous red ivy grew over the heap of broken stones. she tied the horse to a tree and edged as close to the precipice as she dared. fifty feet below, the waves were swirling in and over the remnants of a shattered tower. behind it, she glimpsed the mouth of a large cavern. that's the old beacon tower, said nimble dick as he came up behind her. it fell when i was half as old as pods here. used to be steps down to the cove, but when the cliff collapsed they went too. the smugglers stopped landing here after that. time was, they could row their boats into the cave, but no more. see? he put one hand on her back, and pointed with the other. brienne's flesh prickled. one shove, and i'll be down there with the tower. she stepped back. keep your hands off me. crabb made a face. i was only... i don't care what you were only. where's the gate? around t'other side. he hesitated. this fool o' yours, he's not a man to hold a grudge, is he? he said nervously. i mean, last night i got to thinking that he might be angry at old nimble dick, on account o' that map i sold him, and how i left out that the smugglers don't land here no more. with the gold that you've got coming, you can give him back whatever he paid you for your help. brienne could not imagine dontos hollard posing a threat. that is, if he's even here. they made a circuit of the walls. the castle had been triangular, with square towers at each corner. its gates were badly rotted. when brienne tugged at one, the wood cracked and peeled away in long wet splinters, and half the gate came down on her. she could see more green gloom inside. the forest had breached the walls, and swallowed keep and bailey. but there was a portcullis behind the gate, its teeth sunk deep into the soft muddy ground. the iron was red with rust, but it held when brienne rattled it. no one's used this gate for a long time. i could climb over, offered podrick. by the cliff. where the wall fell down. it's too dangerous. those stones looked loose to me, and that red ivy's poisonous. there has to be a postern gate. they found it on the north side of the castle, half- hidden behind a huge blackberry bramble. the berries had all been picked, and half the bush had been hacked down to cut a path to the door. the sight of the broken branches filled brienne with disquiet. someone's been through here, and recently. your fool and those girls, said crabb. i told you. sansa? brienne could not believe it. even a wine-soaked sot like dontos hollard would have better sense than to bring her to this bleak place. something about the ruins filled her with unease. she would not find the stark girl here... but she had to have a look. someone was here, she thought. someone who needed to stay hidden. i'm going in, she said. crabb, you'll come with me. podrick, i want you to watch the horses. i want to come too. i'm a squire. i can fight. that's why i want you to stay here. there may be outlaws in these woods. we dare not leave the horses unprotected. podrick scuffed at a rock with his boot. as you say. she shouldered through the blackberries and pulled at a rusted iron ring. the postern door resisted for a moment, then jerked open, its hinges screaming protest. the sound made the hairs on the back of brienne's neck stand up. she drew her sword. even in mail and boiled leather, she felt naked. go on, m'lady, urged nimble dick, behind her. what are you waiting for? old crabb's been dead a thousand years. what was she waiting for? brienne told herself that she was being foolish. the sound was just the sea, echoing endlessly through the caverns beneath the castle, rising and falling with each wave. it did sound like whispering, though, and for a moment she could almost see the heads, sitting on their shelves and muttering to one another. i should have used the sword one of them was saying. i should have used the magic sword. podrick, said brienne. there's a sword and scabbard wrapped up in my bedroll. bring them here to me. yes, ser. my lady. i will. the boy went running off. a sword? nimble dick scratched behind his ear. you got a sword in your hand. what do you need another for? this one's for you. brienne offered him the hilt. for true? crabb reached out hesitantly, as if the blade might bite him. the mistrustful maid's giving old dick a sword? you do know how to use one? i'm a crabb. he snatched the longsword from her hand. i got the same blood as old ser clarence. he slashed the air and grinned at her. it's the sword that makes the lord, some say. when podrick payne returned, he held oathkeeper as gingerly as if it were a child. nimble dick gave a whistle at the sight of the ornate scabbard with its row of lion's heads, but grew quiet when she drew the blade and tried a cut. even the sound of it is sharper than an ordinary sword. with me, she told crabb. she slipped sideways through the postern, ducking her head to pass beneath the doorway's arch. the bailey opened up before her, overgrown. to her left was the main gate, and the collapsed shell of what might have been a stable. saplings were poking out of half the stalls and growing up through the dry brown thatch of its roof. to her right she saw rotted wooden steps descending into the darkness of a dungeon or a root cellar. where the keep had been was a pile of collapsed stones, overgrown with green and purple moss. the yard was all weeds and pine needles. soldier pines were everywhere, drawn up in solemn ranks. in their midst was a pale stranger; a slender young weirwood with a trunk as white as a cloistered maid. dark red leaves sprouted from its reaching branches. beyond was the emptiness of sky and sea where the wall had collapsed... ... and the remnants of a fire. the whispers nibbled at her ears, insistent. brienne knelt beside the fire. she picked up a blackened stick, sniffed at it, stirred the ashes. someone was trying to keep warm last night. or else they were trying to send a signal to a passing ship. halloooooo, called nimble dick. anyone here? be quiet, brienne told him. someone might be hiding. wanting to get a look at us before they show themself. he walked to where the steps went down beneath the ground, and peered down into the darkness. hallooooo, he called again. anyone down there? brienne saw a sapling sway. from the bushes slid a man, so caked with dirt that he looked as if he had sprouted from the earth. a broken sword was in his hand, but it was his face that gave her pause, the small eyes and wide flat nostrils. she knew that nose. she knew those eyes. pyg, his friends had called him. everything seemed to happen in a heartbeat. a second man slipped over the lip of the well, making no more noise than a snake might make slithering across a pile of wet leaves. he wore an iron halfhelm wrapped in stained red silk, and had a short, thick throwing spear in hand. brienne knew him too. from behind her came a rustling as a head poked down through the red leaves. crabb was standing underneath the weirwood. he looked up and saw the face. here, he called to brienne. it's your fool. dick, she called urgently, to me. shagwell dropped from the weirwood, braying laughter. he was garbed in motley, but so faded and stained that it showed more brown than grey or pink. in place of a jester's flail he had a triple morningstar, three spiked balls chained to a wooden haft. he swung it hard and low, and one of crabb 's knees exploded in a spray of blood and bone. that's funny, shagwell crowed as dick fell. the sword she'd given him went flying from his hand and vanished in the weeds. he writhed on the ground, screaming and clutching at the ruins of his knee. oh, look, said shagwell, it's smuggler dick, the one who made the map for us. did you come all this way to give us back our gold? please, dick whimpered, please don't, my leg... does it hurt? i can make it stop. leave him be, said brienne. don't! shrieked dick, lifting bloody hands to shield his head. shagwell whirled the spiked ball once around his head and brought it down in the middle of crabb 's face. there was a sickening crunch. in the silence that followed, brienne could hear the sound of her own heart. bad shags, said the man who'd come creeping from the well. when he saw brienne's face, he laughed. you again, woman? what, come to hunt us down? or did you miss our friendly faces? shagwell danced from foot to foot and spun his flail. it's me she come for. she dreams of me every night, when she sticks her fingers up her slit. she wants me, lads, the big horse missed her merry shags! i'm going to fuck her up the arse and pump her full of motley seed, until she whelps a little me. you need to use a different hole for that, shags, said timeon, in his dornish drawl. i best use all her holes, then. just to make certain. he moved to her right as pyg was circling around to her left, forcing her back toward the ragged edge of the cliff. passage for three, brienne remembered. there are only three of you. timeon shrugged. we all went our own ways, after we left harrenhal. urswyck and his lot rode south for oldtown. rorge thought he might slip out at saltpans. me and my lads made for maidenpool, but we couldn't get near a ship. the dornishman hefted his spear. you did for vargo with that bite, you know. his ear turned black and started leaking pus. rorge and urswyck were for leaving, but the goat says we got to hold his castle. lord of harrenhal, he says he is, no one was going to take it off him. he said it slobbery, the way he always talked. we heard the mountain killed him piece by piece. a hand one day, a foot the next, lopped off neat and clean. they bandaged up the stumps so hoat didn't die. he was saving his cock for last, but some bird called him to king's landing, so he finished it and rode off. i am not here for you. i am looking for my... she almost said my sister. ... for a fool. i'm a fool, shagwell announced happily. the wrong fool, blurted brienne. the one i want is with a highborn girl, the daughter of lord stark of winterfell. then it's the hound you want, said timeon. he's not here neither, as it happens. just us. sandor clegane? said brienne. what do you mean? he's the one that's got the stark girl. the way i hear it, she was making for riverrun, and he stole her. damned dog. riverrun, thought brienne. she was making for riverrun. for her uncles. how do you know? had it from one of beric's bunch. the lightning lord is looking for her too. he's sent his men all up and down the trident, sniffing after her. we chanced on three of them after harrenhal, and winkled the tale from one before he died. he might have lied. he might have, but he didn't. later on, we heard how the hound slew three of his brother's men at an inn by the crossroads. the girl was with him there. the innkeep swore to it before rorge killed him, and the whores said the same. an ugly bunch, they were. not so ugly as you, mind you, but still... he is trying to distract me, brienne realized, to lull me with his voice. pyg was edging closer. shagwell took a hop toward her. she backed away from them. they will back me off the cliff if i let them. stay away, she warned them. i think i'm going to fuck you up the nose, wench, shagwell announced. won't that be amusing? he has a very small cock, timeon explained. drop that pretty sword and might be we'll go gentle on you, woman. we need gold to pay these smugglers, that's all. and if i give you gold, you'll let us go? we will. timeon smiled. once you've fucked the lot of us. we'll pay you like a proper whore. a silver for each fuck. or else we'll take the gold and rape you anyway, and do you like the mountain did lord vargo. what's your choice? this. brienne threw herself toward pyg. he jerked his broken blade up to protect his face, but as he went high she went low. oathkeeper bit through leather, wool, skin, and muscle, into the sellsword's thigh. pyg cut back wildly as his leg went out from under him. his broken sword scraped against her chainmail before he landed on his back. brienne stabbed him through the throat, gave the blade a hard turn, and slid it out, whirling just as timeon's spear came flashing past her face. i did not flinch, she thought, as blood ran red down her cheek. did you see, ser goodwin? she hardly felt the cut. your turn, she told timeon, as the dornishman pulled out a second spear, shorter and thicker than the first. throw it. so you can dance away and charge me? i'd end up dead as pyg. no. get her, shags. you get her, shagwell said. did you see what she did to pyg? she's mad with moon blood. the fool was behind her, timeon in front. no matter how she turned, one was at her back. get her, urged timeon, and you can fuck her corpse. oh, you do love me. the morningstar was whirling. choose one, brienne told herself. choose one and kill him quickly. then a stone came out of nowhere, and hit shagwell in the head. brienne did not hesitate. she flew at timeon. he was better than pyg, but he had only a short throwing spear, and she had a valyrian steel blade. oathkeeper was alive in her hands. she had never been so quick. the blade became a grey blur. he wounded her in the shoulder as she came at him, but she slashed off his ear and half his cheek, hacked the head off his spear, and put a foot of rippled steel into his belly through the links of the chainmail byrnie he was wearing. timeon was still trying to fight as she pulled her blade from him, its fullers running red with blood. he clawed at his belt and came up with a dagger, so brienne cut his hand off. that one was for jaime. mother have mercy, the dornishman gasped, the blood bubbling from his mouth and spurting from his wrist. finish it. send me back to dome, you bloody bitch. she did. shagwell was on his knees when she turned, looking dazed as he fumbled for the morningstar. as he staggered to his feet, another stone slammed him in the ear. podrick had climbed the fallen wall and was standing amongst the ivy glowering, a fresh rock in his hand. i told you i could fight! he shouted down. shagwell tried to crawl away. i yield, the fool cried, i yield. you mustn't hurt sweet shagwell, i'm too droll to die. you are no better than the rest of them. you have robbed and raped and murdered. oh, i have, i have, i shan't deny it... but i'm amusing, with all my japes and capers. i make men laugh. and women weep. is that my fault? women have no sense of humor. brienne lowered oathkeeper. dig a grave. there, beneath the weirwood. she pointed with her blade. i have no spade. you have two hands. one more than you left jaime. why bother? leave them for the crows. timeon and pyg can feed the crows. nimble dick will have a grave. he was a crabb. this is his place. the ground was soft from rain, but even so it took the fool the rest of the day to dig down deep enough. night was falling by the time he was done, and his hands were bloody and blistered. brienne sheathed oathkeeper, gathered up dick crabb, and carried him to the hole. his face was hard to look on. i'm sorry that i never trusted you. i don't know how to do that anymore. as she knelt to lay the body down, she thought, the fool will make his try now, whilst my back is turned. she heard his ragged breathing half a heartbeat before podrick cried out his warning. shagwell had a jagged chunk of rock clutched in one hand. brienne had her dagger up her sleeve. a dagger will beat a rock almost every time. she knocked aside his arm and punched the steel into his bowels. laugh, she snarled at him. he moaned instead. laugh, she repeated, grabbing his throat with one hand and stabbing at his belly with the other. laugh! she kept saying it, over and over, until her hand was red up to the wrist and the stink of the fool's dying was like to choke her. but shagwell never laughed. the sobs that brienne heard were all her own. when she realized that, she threw down her knife and shuddered. podrick helped her lower nimble dick into his hole. by the time they were done the moon was rising. brienne rubbed the dirt from her hands and tossed two dragons down into the grave. why did you do that, my lady? ser? asked pod. it was the reward i promised him for finding me the fool. laughter sounded from behind them. she ripped oathkeeper from her sheath and whirled, expecting more bloody mummers... but it was only hyle hunt atop the crumbling wall, his legs crossed. if there are brothels down in hell, the wretch will thank you, the knight called down. elsewise, that's a waste of good gold. i keep my promises. what are you doing here? lord randyll bid me follow you. if by some freak's chance you stumbled onto sansa stark, he told me to bring her back to maidenpool. have no fear, i was commanded not to harm you. brienne snorted. as if you could. what will you do now, my lady? cover him. about the girl, i meant. the lady sansa. brienne thought a moment. she was making for riverrun, if timeon told it true. somewhere along the way she was taken by the hound. if i find him... ...he'll kill you. or i'll kill him, she said stubbornly. will you help me cover up poor crabb, ser? no true knight could refuse such beauty. ser hyle climbed down from the wall. together, they shoved the dirt on top of nimble dick as the moon rose higher in the sky, and down below the ground the heads of forgotten kings whispered secrets. it was hyle hunt who insisted that they take the heads. tarly will want them for the walls, he said. we have no tar, brienne pointed out. the flesh will rot. leave them. she did not want to travel through the green gloom of the piney woods with the heads of the men she'd killed. hunt would not listen. he hacked through the dead men's necks himself, tied the three heads together by the hair, and slung them from his saddle. brienne had no choice but to try and pretend they were not there, but sometimes, especially at night, she could feel their dead eyes on her back, and once she dreamed she heard them whispering to one another. it was cold and wet on crackclaw point as they retraced their steps. some days it rained and some days it threatened rain. they were never warm. even when they made camp, it was hard to find enough dry wood for a fire. by the time they reached the gates of maidenpool, a host of flies attended them, a crow had eaten shagwell's eyes, and pyg and timeon were crawling with maggots. brienne and podrick had long since taken to riding a hundred yards ahead, to keep the smell of rot well behind them. ser hyle claimed to have lost all sense of smell by then. bury them, she told him every time they made camp for a night, but hunt was nothing if not stubborn. he will most like tell lord randyll that he slew all three of them. to his honor, though, the knight did nothing of the sort. the stammering squire threw a rock, he said, when he and brienne were ushered into tarly's presence in the yard of mooton's castle. the heads had been presented to a serjeant of the guard, who was told to have them cleaned and tarred and mounted above the gate. the swordswench did the rest. all three? lord randyll was incredulous. the way she fought, she could have killed three more. and did you find the stark girl? tarly demanded of her. no, my lord. instead you slew some rats. did you enjoy it? no, my lord. a pity. well, you've had your taste of blood. proved whatever it is you meant to prove. it's time you took off that mail and donned proper clothes again. there are ships in port. one's bound to stop at tarth. i'll have you on it. thank you, my lord, but no. lord tarly's face suggested he would have liked nothing better than to stick her own head on a spike and mount it above the gates of maidenpool with timeon, pyg, and shagwell. you mean to continue with this folly? i mean to find the lady sansa. if it please my lord, ser hyle said, i watched her fight the mummers. she is stronger than most men, and quick   the sword is quick, tarly snapped. that is the nature of valyrian steel. stronger than most men? aye. she's a freak of nature, far be it from me to deny it. his sort will never love me, brienne thought, no matter what i do. my lord, it may be that sandor clegane has some knowledge of the girl. if i could find him... clegane's turned outlaw. he rides with beric dondarrion now, it would seem. or not, the tales vary. show me where they're hiding, i will gladly slit their bellies open, pull their entrails out, and burn them. we've hanged dozens of outlaws, but the leaders still elude us. clegane, dondarrion, the red priest, and now this woman stoneheart... how do you propose to find them, when i cannot? my lord, i... she had no good answer for him. all i can do is try. try, then. you have your letter, you do not need my leave, but i'll give it nonetheless. if you're fortunate, all you'll get for your trouble are saddle sores. if not, perhaps clegane will let you live after he and his pack are done raping you. you can crawl back to tarth with some dog's bastard in your belly. brienne ignored that. if it please my lord, how many men ride with the hound? six or sixty or six hundred. it would seem to depend on whom we ask. randyll tarly had plainly had enough of the conversation. he started to turn away. if my squire and i might beg your hospitality until   beg all you want. i will not suffer you beneath my roof. ser hyle hunt stepped forward. if it please my lord, i had understood that it was still lord mooton's roof. tarly gave the knight a venomous look. mooton has the courage of a worm. you will not speak to me of mooton. as for you, my lady, it is said that your father is a good man. if so, i pity him. some men are blessed with sons, some with daughters. no man deserves to be cursed with such as you. live or die, lady brienne, do not return to maidenpool whilst i rule here. words are wind, brienne told herself. they cannot hurt you. let them wash over you. as you command, my lord, she tried to say, but tarly had gone before she got it out. she walked from the yard like one asleep, not knowing where she was going. ser hyle fell in beside her. there are inns. she shook her head. she did not want words with hyle hunt. do you recall the stinking goose? her cloak still smelled of it. why? meet me there on the morrow, at midday. my cousin alyn was one of those sent out to find the hound. i'll speak with him. why would you do that? why not? if you succeed where alyn failed, i shall be able to taunt him with that for years. there were still inns in maidenpool; ser hyle had not been wrong. some had burned during one sack or the other, however, and had yet to be rebuilt, and those that remained were full to bursting with men from lord tarly' s host. she and podrick visited all of them that afternoon, but there were no beds to be had anywhere. ser? my lady? podrick said as the sun was going down. there are ships. ships have beds. hammocks. or bunks. lord randylps men still prowled the docks, as thick as the flies had been on the heads of the three bloody mummers, but their serjeant knew brienne by sight and let her pass. the local fisherfolk were tying up for the night and crying the day's catch, but her interest was in the larger ships that plied the stormy waters of the narrow sea. haifa dozen were in port, though one, a galleas called the titan's daughter, was casting off her lines to ride out on the evening tide. she and podrick payne made the rounds of the ships that remained. the master of the gulltown girl took brienne for a whore and told them that his ship was not a bawdy house, and a harpooner on the ibbenese whaler offered to buy her boy, but they had better fortune elsewhere. she purchased podrick an orange on the seastrider, a cog just in from oldtown by way of tyrosh, pentos, and duskendale. gulltown next, her captain told her, thence around the fingers to sisterton and white harbor, if the storms allow. she's a clean ship, 'strider, not so many rats as most, and we'll have fresh eggs and new-churned butter aboard. is m'lady seeking passage north? no. not yet. she was tempted, but... as they were making their way to the next pier, podrick shuffled his feet, and said, ser? my lady? what if my lady did go home? my other lady, i mean. ser. lady sansa. they burned her home. still. that's where her gods are. and gods can't die. gods cannot die, but girls can. timeon was a cruel man and a murderer, but i do not think he lied about the hound. we cannot go north until we know for certain. there will be other ships. at the east end of the harbor they finally found shelter for the night, aboard a storm- wracked trading galley called the lady of myr. she was listing badly, having lost her mast and half her crew in a storm, but her master did not have the coin he needed to refit her, so he was glad to take a few pennies from brienne and allow her and pod to share an empty cabin. they had a restless night. thrice brienne woke. once when the rain began, and once at a creak that made her think nimble dick was creeping in to kill her. the second time, she woke with knife in hand, but it was nothing. in the darkness of the cramped little cabin, it took her a moment to remember that nimble dick was dead. when she finally drifted back to sleep, she dreamed about the men she'd killed. they danced around her, mocking her, pinching at her as she slashed at them with her sword. she cut them all to bloody ribbons, yet still they swarmed around her... shagwell, timeon, and pyg, aye, but randyll tarly too, and vargo hoat, and red ronnet connington. ronnet had a rose between his fingers. when he held it out to her, she cut his hand off. she woke sweating, and spent the rest of the night huddled under her cloak, listening to rain pound against the deck over her head. it was a wild night. from time to time she heard the sound of distant thunder, and thought of the braavosi ship that had sailed upon the evening tide. the next morning she found the stinking goose again, woke its slatternly proprietor, and paid her for some greasy sausages, fried bread, half a cup of wine, a flagon of boiled water, and two clean cups. the woman squinted at brienne as she was putting the water on to boil. you're the big one went off with nimble dick. i remember. he cheat you? no. rape you? no. steal your horse? no. he was slain by outlaws. outlaws? the woman seemed more curious than upset. i always figured dick would hang, or get sent off to that wall. they ate the fried bread and half the sausages. podrick payne washed his down with wine- flavored water whilst brienne nursed a cup of watered wine and wondered why she'd come. hyle hunt was no true knight. his honest face was just a mummer's mask. i do not need his help, i do not need his protection, and i do not need him, she told herself. he is probably not even coming. telling me to meet him here was just another jape. she was getting up to go when ser hyle arrived. my lady. podrick. he glanced at the cups and plates and the half-eaten sausages cooling in a puddle of grease, and said, gods, i hope you did not eat the food here. what we ate is no concern of yours, brienne said. did you find your cousin? what did he tell you? sandor clegane was last seen in saltpans, the day of the raid. afterward he rode west, along the trident. she frowned. the trident is a long river. aye, but i don't think our dog will have wandered too far from its mouth. westeros has lost its charm for him, it would seem. at saltpans he was looking for a ship. ser hyle drew a roll of sheepskin from his boot, pushed the sausages aside, and unrolled it. it proved to be a map. the hound butchered three of his brother's men at the old inn by the crossroads, here. he led the raid on saltpans, here. he tapped saltpans with his finger. he may be trapped. the freys are up here at the twins, darry and harrenhal are south across the trident, west he's got the blackwoods and the brackens fighting, and lord randyll's here at maidenpool. the high road to the vale is closed by snow, even if he could get past the mountain clans. where's a dog to go? if he is with dondarrion... ? he's not. alyn is certain of that. dondarrion's men are looking for him too. they have put out word that they mean to hang him for what he did at saltpans. they had no part of that. lord randyll is putting it about that they did in hopes of turning the commons against beric and his brotherhood. he will never take the lightning lord so long as the smallfolk are protecting him. and there's this other band, led by this woman stoneheart... lord beric's lover, according to one tale. supposedly she was hanged by the freys, but dondarrion kissed her and brought her back to life, and now she cannot die, no more than he can. brienne considered the map. if clegane was last seen at saltpans, that would be the place to find his trail. there is no one left at saltpans but an old knight hiding in his castle, alyn said. still, it would be a place to start. there's a man, ser hyle said. a septon. he came in through my gate the day before you turned up. meribald, his name is. river-born and river-bred and he's served here all his life. he's departing on the morrow to make his circuit, and he always calls at saltpans. we should go with him. brienne looked up sharply. we? i am going with you. you're not. well, i'm going with septon meribald to saltpans. you and podrick can go wherever you bloody well like. did lord randyll command you to follow me again? he commanded me to stay away from you. lord randyll is of the view that you might benefit from a good hard raping. then why would you come with me? it was that, or return to gate duty. if your lord commanded   he is no longer my lord. that took her aback. you left his service? his lordship informed me that he had no further need of my sword, or my insolence. it amounts to the same thing. henceforth i shall enjoy the adventuresome life of a hedge knight... though if we do find sansa stark, i imagine we will be well rewarded. gold and land, that's what he sees in this. i mean to save the girl, not sell her. i swore a vow. i don't recall that i did. that is why you will not be coming with me. they left the next morning, as the sun was coming up. it was a queer procession: ser hyle on a chestnut courser and brienne on her tall grey mare, podrick payne astride his swayback stot, and septon meribald walking beside them with his quarterstaff, leading a small donkey and a large dog. the donkey carried such a heavy load that brienne was half afraid its back would break. food for the poor and hungry of the riverlands, septon meribald told them at the gates of maidenpool. seeds and nuts and dried fruit, oaten porridge, flour, barley bread, three wheels of yellow cheese from the inn by the fool's gate, salt cod for me, salt mutton for dog... oh, and salt. onions, carrots, turnips, two sacks of beans, four of barley, and nine of oranges. i have a weakness for the orange, i confess. i got these from a sailor, and i fear they will be the last i'll taste till spring. meribald was a septon without a sept, only one step up from a begging brother in the hierarchy of the faith. there were hundreds like him, a ragged band whose humble task it was to trudge from one flyspeck of a village to the next, conducting holy services, performing marriages, and forgiving sins. those he visited were expected to feed and shelter him, but most were as poor as he was, so meribald could not linger in one place too long without causing hardship to his hosts. kindly innkeeps would sometimes allow him to sleep in their kitchens or their stables, and there were septries and holdfasts and even a few castles where he knew he would be given hospitality. where no such places were at hand, he slept beneath the trees or under hedges. there are many fine hedges in the riverlands, meribald said. the old ones are the best. there's nothing beats a hundred-year-old hedge. inside one of those a man can sleep as snug as at an inn, and with less fear of fleas. the septon could neither read nor write, as he cheerfully confessed along the road, but he knew a hundred different prayers and could recite long passages from the seven-pointed star from memory, which was all that was required in the villages. he had a seamed, windburnt face, a shock of thick grey hair, wrinkles at the corners of his eyes. though a big man, six feet tall, he had a way of hunching forward as he walked that made him seem much shorter. his hands were large and leathery, with red knuckles and dirt beneath the nails, and he had the biggest feet that brienne had ever seen, bare and black and hard as horn. i have not worn a shoe in twenty years, he told brienne. the first year, i had more blisters than i had toes, and my soles would bleed like pigs whenever i trod on a hard stone, but i prayed and the cobbler above turned my skin to leather. there is no cobbler above, podrick protested. there is, lad... though you may call him by another name. tell me, which of the seven gods do you love best? the warrior, said podrick without a moment's hesitation. brienne cleared her throat. at evenfall my father's septon always said that there was but one god. one god with seven aspects. that's so, my lady, and you are right to point it out, but the mystery of the seven who are one is not easy for simple folk to grasp, and i am nothing if not simple, so i speak of seven gods. meribald turned back to podrick. i have never known a boy who did not love the warrior. i am old, though, and being old, i love the smith. without his labor, what would the warrior defend? every town has a smith, and every castle. they make the plows we need to plant our crops, the nails we use to build our ships, iron shoes to save the hooves of our faithful horses, the bright swords of our lords. no one could doubt the value of a smith, and so we name one of the seven in his honor, but we might as easily have called him the farmer or the fisherman, the carpenter or the cobbler. what he works at makes no matter. what matters is, he works. the father rules, the warrior fights, the smith labors, and together they perform all that is rightful for a man. just as the smith is one aspect of the godhead, the cobbler is one aspect of the smith. it was he who heard my prayer and healed my feet. the gods are good, ser hyle said in a dry voice, but why trouble them, when you might just have kept your shoes? going barefoot was my penance. even holy septons can be sinners, and my flesh was weak as weak could be. i was young and full of sap, and the girls... a septon can seem as gallant as a prince if he is the only man you know who has ever been more than a mile from your village. i would recite to them from the seven-pointed star. the maiden's book worked best. oh, i was a wicked man, before i threw away my shoes. it shames me to think of all the maidens i deflowered. brienne shifted in the saddle uncomfortably, thinking back to the camp below the walls of highgarden and the wager ser hyle and the others had made to see who could bed her first. we're looking for a maiden, confided podrick payne. a highborn girl of three-and-ten, with auburn hair. i had understood that you were seeking outlaws. them too, podrick admitted. most travelers do all they can to avoid such men, said septon meribald, yet you would seek them out. we only seek one outlaw, brienne said. the hound. so ser hyle told me. may the seven save you, child. it's said he leaves a trail of butchered babes and ravished maids behind him. the mad dog of saltpans, i have heard him called. what would good folk want with such a creature? the maid that podrick spoke of may be with him. truly? then we must pray for the poor girl. and for me, thought brienne, a prayer for me as well. ask the crone to raise her lamp and lead me to the lady sansa, and the warrior to give strength to my arm so that i might defend her. she did not say the words aloud, though; not where hyle hunt might hear her and mock her for her woman's weakness. with septon meribald afoot and his donkey bearing such a heavy load, the going was slow all that day. they did not take the main road west, the road that brienne had once ridden with ser jaime when they came the other way to find maidenpool sacked and full of corpses. instead they struck off toward the northwest, following the shore of the bay of crabs on a crooked track so small that it did not appear on either of ser hyle's precious sheepskin maps. the steep hills, black bogs, and piney woods of crackclaw point were nowhere to be found this side of maidenpool. the lands they traveled through were low and wet, a wilderness of sandy dunes and salt marshes beneath a vast blue-grey vault of sky. the road was prone to vanishing amongst the reeds and tidal pools, only to appear again a mile farther on; without meribald, brienne knew, they surely would have lost their way. the ground was often soft, so in places the septon would walk ahead, tapping with his quarterstaff to make certain of the footing. there were no trees for leagues around, just sea and sky and sand. no land could have been more different from tarth, with its mountains and waterfalls, its high meadows and shadowed vales, yet this place had its own beauty, brienne thought. they crossed a dozen slow-flowing streams alive with frogs and crickets, watched terns floating high above the bay, heard the sandpipers calling from amongst the dunes. once a fox crossed their path, and set meribald 's dog to barking wildly. and there were people too. some lived amongst the reeds in houses built of mud and straw, whilst others fished the bay in leather coracles and built their homes on rickety wooden stilts above the dunes. most seemed to live alone, out of sight of any human habitation but their own. they seemed a shy folk for the most part, but near midday the dog began to bark again, and three women emerged from the reeds to give meribald a woven basket full of clams. he gave each of them an orange in return, though clams were as common as mud in this world, and oranges were rare and costly. one of the women was very old, one was heavy with child, and one was a girl as fresh and pretty as a flower in spring. when meribald took them off to hear their sins, ser hyle chuckled, and said, it would seem the gods walk with us... at least the maiden, the mother, and the crone. podrick looked so astonished that brienne had to tell him no, they were only three marsh women. afterward, when they resumed their journey, she turned to the septon, and said, these people live less than a day's ride from maidenpool, and yet the fighting has not touched them. they have little to touch, my lady. their treasures are shells and stones and leather boats, their finest weapons knives of rusted iron. they are born, they live, they love, they die. they know lord mooton rules their lands, but few have ever seen him, and riverrun and king's landing are only names to them. and yet they know the gods, said brienne. that is your work, i think. how long have you walked the riverlands? it will be forty years soon, the septon said, and his dog gave a loud bark. from maidenpool to maidenpool, my circuit takes me half a year and ofttimes more, but i will not say i know the trident. i glimpse the castles of the great lords only at a distance, but i know the market towns and holdfasts, the villages too small to have a name, the hedges and the hills, the rills where a thirsty man can drink and the caves where he can shelter. and the roads the smallfolk use, the crooked muddy tracks that do not appear on parchment maps, i know them too. he chuckled. i should. my feet have trod every mile of them, ten times over. the back roads are the ones the outlaws use, and the caves would make fine places for hunted men to hide. a prickle of suspicion made brienne wonder just how well ser hyle knew this man. it must make for a lonely life, septon. the seven are always with me, said meribald, and i have my faithful servant, and dog. does your dog have a name? asked podrick payne. he must, said meribald, but he is not my dog. not him. the dog barked and wagged his tail. he was a huge, shaggy creature, ten stone of dog at least, but friendly. who does he belong to? asked podrick. why, to himself, and to the seven. as to his name, he has not told me what it is. i call him dog. oh. podrick did not know what to make of a dog named dog, plainly. the boy chewed on that a while, then said, i used to have a dog when i was little. i called him hero. was he? was he what? a hero. no. he was a good dog, though. he died. dog keeps me safe upon the roads, even in such trying times as these. neither wolf nor outlaw dare molest me when dog is at my side. the septon frowned. the wolves have grown terrible of late. there are places where a man alone would do well to find a tree to sleep in. in all my years the biggest pack i ever saw had fewer than a dozen wolves in it, but the great pack that prowls along the trident now numbers in the hundreds. have you come on them yourself? ser hyle asked. i have been spared that, seven save me, but i have heard them in the night, and more than once. so many voices... a sound to curdle a man's blood. it even set dog to shivering, and dog has killed a dozen wolves. he ruffled the dog's head. some will tell you that they are demons. they say the pack is led by a monstrous she-wolf, a stalking shadow grim and grey and huge. they will tell you that she has been known to bring aurochs down all by herself, that no trap nor snare can hold her, that she fears neither steel nor fire, slays any wolf that tries to mount her, and devours no other flesh but man. ser hyle hunt laughed. now you've done it, septon. poor podrick's eyes are big as boiled eggs. they're not, said podrick, indignant. dog barked. that night they made a cold camp in the dunes. brienne sent podrick walking by the shore to find some driftwood for a fire, but he came back empty-handed, with mud up to his knees. the tide's out, ser. my lady. there's no water, only mudflats. stay off the mud, child, counseled septon meribald. the mud is not fond of strangers. if you walk in the wrong place, it will open up and swallow you. it's only mud, insisted podrick. until it fills your mouth and starts creeping up your nose. then it's death. he smiled to take the chill off his words. wipe off that mud and have a slice of orange, lad. the next day was more of the same. they broke their fast on salt cod and more orange slices, and were on their way before the sun was wholly risen, with a pink sky behind them and a purple sky ahead. dog led the way, sniffing at every clump of reeds and stopping every now and then to piss on one; he seemed to know the road as well as meribald. the cries of terns shivered through the morning air as the tide came rushing in. near midday they stopped at a tiny village, the first they had encountered, where eight of the stilt-houses loomed above a small stream. the men were out fishing in their coracles, but the women and young boys clambered down dangling rope ladders and gathered around septon meribald to pray. after the service he absolved their sins and left them with some turnips, a sack of beans, and two of his precious oranges. back on the road, the septon said, we would do well to keep a watch tonight, my friends. the villagers say they've seen three broken men skulking round the dunes, west of the old watchtower. only three? ser hyle smiled. three is honey to our swordswench. they're not like to trouble armed men. unless they're starving, the septon said. there is food in these marshes, but only for those with the eyes to find it, and these men are strangers here, survivors from some battle. if they should accost us, ser, i beg you, leave them to me. what will you do with them? feed them. ask them to confess their sins, so that i might forgive them. invite them to come with us to the quiet isle. that's as good as inviting them to slit our throats as we sleep, hyle hunt replied. lord randyll has better ways to deal with broken men  steel and hempen rope. ser? my lady? said podrick. is a broken man an outlaw? more or less, brienne answered. septon meribald disagreed. more less than more. there are many sorts of outlaws, just as there are many sorts of birds. a sandpiper and a sea eagle both have wings, but they are not the same. the singers love to sing of good men forced to go outside the law to fight some wicked lord, but most outlaws are more like this ravening hound than they are the lightning lord. they are evil men, driven by greed, soured by malice, despising the gods and caring only for themselves. broken men are more deserving of our pity, though they may be just as dangerous. almost all are common-born, simple folk who had never been more than a mile from the house where they were born until the day some lord came round to take them off to war. poorly shod and poorly clad, they march away beneath his banners, ofttimes with no better arms than a sickle or a sharpened hoe, or a maul they made themselves by lashing a stone to a stick with strips of hide. brothers march with brothers, sons with fathers, friends with friends. they've heard the songs and stories, so they go off with eager hearts, dreaming of the wonders they will see, of the wealth and glory they will win. war seems a fine adventure, the greatest most of them will ever know. then they get a taste of battle. for some, that one taste is enough to break them. others go on for years, until they lose count of all the battles they have fought in, but even a man who has survived a hundred fights can break in his hundred-and- first. brothers watch their brothers die, fathers lose their sons, friends see their friends trying to hold their entrails in after they've been gutted by an axe. they see the lord who led them there cut down, and some other lord shouts that they are his now. they take a wound, and when that's still half-healed they take another. there is never enough to eat, their shoes fall to pieces from the marching, their clothes are torn and rotting, and half of them are shitting in their breeches from drinking bad water. if they want new boots or a warmer cloak or maybe a rusted iron halfhelm, they need to take them from a corpse, and before long they are stealing from the living too, from the smallfolk whose lands they're fighting in, men very like the men they used to be. they slaughter their sheep and steal their chickens, and from there it's just a short step to carrying off their daughters too. and one day they look around and realize all their friends and kin are gone, that they are fighting beside strangers beneath a banner that they hardly recognize. they don't know where they are or how to get back home and the lord they're fighting for does not know their names, yet here he comes, shouting for them to form up, to make a line with their spears and scythes and sharpened hoes, to stand their ground. and the knights come down on them, faceless men clad all in steel, and the iron thunder of their charge seems to fill the world... and the man breaks. he turns and runs, or crawls off afterward over the corpses of the slain, or steals away in the black of night, and he finds someplace to hide. all thought of home is gone by then, and kings and lords and gods mean less to him than a haunch of spoiled meat that will let him live another day, or a skin of bad wine that might drown his fear for a few hours. the broken man lives from day to day, from meal to meal, more beast than man. lady brienne is not wrong. in times like these, the traveler must beware of broken men, and fear them... but he should pity them as well. when meribald was finished a profound silence fell upon their little band. brienne could hear the wind rustling through a clump of pussywillows, and farther off the faint cry of a loon. she could hear dog panting softly as he loped along beside the septon and his donkey, tongue lolling from his mouth. the quiet stretched and stretched, until finally she said, how old were you when they marched you off to war? why, no older than your boy, meribald replied. too young for such, in truth, but my brothers were all going, and i would not be left behind. willam said i could be his squire, though will was no knight, only a potboy armed with a kitchen knife he'd stolen from the inn. he died upon the stepstones, and never struck a blow. it was fever did for him, and for my brother robin. owen died from a mace that split his head apart, and his friend jon pox was hanged for rape. the war of the ninepenny kings? asked hyle hunt. so they called it, though i never saw a king, nor earned a penny. it was a war, though. that it was. the septry stood upon an upthrust island half a mile from the shore, where the wide mouth of the trident widened further still to kiss the bay of crabs. even from shore its prosperity was apparent. its slope was covered with terraced fields, with fishponds down below and a windmill above, its woo d-and-sailc loth blades turning slowly in the breeze off the bay. brienne could see sheep grazing on the hillside and storks wading in the shallow waters around the ferry landing. saltpans is just across the water, said septon meribald, pointing north across the bay. the brothers will ferry us over on the morning tide, though i fear what we shall find there. let us enjoy a good hot meal before we face that. the brothers always have a bone to spare for dog. dog barked and wagged his tail. the tide was going out now, and swiftly. the water that separated the island from the shore was receding, leaving behind a broad expanse of glistening brown mudflats dotted by tidal pools that glittered like golden coins in the afternoon sun. brienne scratched the back of her neck, where an insect had bitten her. she had pinned her hair up, and the sun had warmed her skin. why do they call it the quiet isle? asked podrick. those who dwell here are penitents, who seek to atone for their sins through contemplation, prayer, and silence. only the elder brother and his proctors are permitted to speak, and the proctors only for one day of every seven. the silent sisters never speak, said podrick. i heard they don't have any tongues. septon meribald smiled. mothers have been cowing their daughters with that tale since i was your age. there was no truth to it then and there is none now. a vow of silence is an act of contrition, a sacrifice by which we prove our devotion to the seven above. for a mute to take a vow of silence would be akin to a legless man giving up the dance. he led his donkey down the slope, beckoning them to follow. if you would sleep beneath a roof tonight, you must climb off your horses and cross the mud with me. the path of faith, we call it. only the faithful may cross safely. the wicked are swallowed by the quicksands, or drowned when the tide comes rushing in. none of you are wicked, i hope? even so, i would be careful where i set my feet. walk only where i walk, and you shall reach the other side. the path of faith was a crooked one, brienne could not help but note. though the island seemed to rise to the northeast of where they left the shore, septon meribald did not make directly for it. instead, he started due east, toward the deeper waters of the bay, which shimmered blue and silver in the distance. the soft brown mud squished up between his toes. as he walked he paused from time to time, to probe ahead with his quarterstaff dog stayed near his heels, sniffing at every rock, shell, and clump of seaweed. for once he did not bound ahead or stray. brienne followed, taking care to keep close to the line of prints left by the dog, the donkey, and the holy man. then came podrick, and last of all ser hyle. a hundred yards out, meribald turned abruptly toward the south, so his back was almost to the septry. he proceeded in that direction for another hundred yards, leading them between two shallow tidal pools. dog stuck his nose in one and yelped when a crab pinched it with his claw. a brief but furious struggle ensued before the dog came trotting back, wet and mud-spattered, with the crab between his jaws. isn't that where we want to go? ser hyle called out from behind them, pointing at the septry. we seem to be walking every way but toward it. faith, urged septon meribald. believe, persist, and follow, and we shall find the peace we seek. the flats shimmered wetly all about them, mottled in half a hundred hues. the mud was such a dark brown it appeared almost black, but there were swathes of golden sand as well, upthrust rocks both grey and red, and tangles of black and green seaweed. storks stalked through the tidal pools and left their footprints all around them, and crabs scuttled across the surface of shallow waters. the air smelled of brine and rot, and the ground sucked at their feet and let them go only reluctantly, with a pop and a squelchy sigh. septon meribald turned and turned again and yet again. his footprints filled up with water as soon as he moved on. by the time the ground grew firmer and began to rise beneath the feet, they had walked at least a mile and a half. three men were waiting for them as they clambered up the broken stones that ringed the isle's shoreline. they were clad in the brown-and-dun robes of brothers, with wide bell sleeves and pointed cowls. two had wound lengths of wool about the lower halves of their faces as well, so all that could be seen of them were their eyes. the third brother was the one to speak. septon meribald, he called. it has been nigh upon a year. you are welcome. your companions as well. dog wagged his tail, and meribald shook mud from his feet. might we beg your hospitality for a night? yes, of course. there's to be fish stew this evening. will you require the ferry in the morning? if it is not too much to ask. meribald turned to his fellow travelers. brother narbert is a proctor of the order, so he is allowed to speak one day of every seven. brother, these good folk helped me on my way. ser hyle hunt is a gallant from the reach. the lad is podrick payne, late of the westerland. and this is lady brienne, known as the maid of tarth. brother narbert drew up short. a woman. yes, brother. brienne unpinned her hair and shook it out. do you have no women here? not at present, said narbert. those women who do visit come to us sick or hurt, or heavy with child. the seven have blessed our elder brother with healing hands. he has restored many a man to health that even the maesters could not cure, and many a woman too. i am not sick or hurt or heavy with child. lady brienne is a warrior maid, confided septon meribald, hunting for the hound. aye? narbert seemed taken aback. to what end? brienne touched oathkeeper's hilt. his, she said. the proctor studied her. you are... brawny for a woman, it is true, but... mayhaps i should take you up to elder brother. he will have seen you crossing the mud. come. narbert led them along a pebbled path and through a grove of apple trees to a whitewashed stable with a peaked thatch roof. you may leave your animals here. brother gillam will see that they are fed and watered. the stable was more than three-quarters empty. at one end were half a dozen mules, being tended by a bandy-legged little brother whom brienne took for gillam. way down at the far end, well away from the other animals, a huge black stallion trumpeted at the sound of their voices and kicked at the door of his stall. ser hyle gave the big horse an admiring look as he was handing his reins to brother gillam. a handsome beast. brother narbert sighed. the seven send us blessings, and the seven send us trials. handsome he may be, but driftwood was surely whelped in hell. when we sought to harness him to a plow he kicked brother rawney and broke his shinbone in two places. we had hoped gelding might improve the beast's ill temper, but... brother gillam, will you show them? brother gillam lowered his cowl. underneath he had a mop of blond hair, a tonsured scalp, and a bloodstained bandage where he should have had an ear. podrick gasped. the horse bit off your ear? gillam nodded, and covered his head again. forgive me, brother, said ser hyle, but i might take the other ear, if you approached me with a pair of shears. the jest did not sit well with brother narbert. you are a knight, ser. driftwood is a beast of burden. the smith gave men horses to help them in their labors. he turned away. if you will. elder brother will no doubt be waiting. the slope was steeper than it had looked from across the mudflats. to ease it, the brothers had erected a flight of wooden steps that wandered back and forth across the hillside and amongst the buildings. after a long day in the saddle brienne was glad for a chance to stretch her legs. they passed a dozen brothers of the order on their way up; cowled men in dun-and-brown who gave them curious looks as they went by, but spoke no word of greeting. one was leading a pair of milk cows toward a low barn roofed in sod; another worked a butter churn. on the upper slopes they saw three boys driving sheep, and higher still they passed a lichyard where a brother bigger than brienne was struggling to dig a grave. from the way he moved, it was plain to see that he was lame. as he flung a spadeful of the stony soil over one shoulder, some chanced to spatter against their feet. be more watchful there, chided brother narbert. septon meribald might have gotten a mouthful of dirt. the gravedigger lowered his head. when dog went to sniff him he dropped his spade and scratched his ear. a novice, explained narbert. who is the grave for? asked ser hyle, as they resumed their climb up the wooden steps. brother clement, may the father judge him justly. was he old? asked podrick payne. if you consider eight-and- forty old, aye, but it was not the years that killed him. he died of wounds he got at saltpans. he had taken some of our mead to the market there, on the day the outlaws descended on the town. the hound? said brienne. another, just as brutal. he cut poor clement's tongue out when he would not speak. since he had taken a vow of silence, the raider said he had no need of it. the elder brother will know more. he keeps the worst of the tidings from outside to himself, so as not to disturb the tranquillity of the septry. many of our brothers came here to escape the horrors of the world, not to dwell upon them. brother clement was not the only wounded man amongst us. some wounds do not show. brother narbert gestured to their right. there lies our summer arbor. the grapes are small and tart, but make a drinkable wine. we brew our own ale as well, and our mead and cider are far famed. the war has never come here? brienne said. not this war, praise the seven. our prayers protect us. and your tides, suggested meribald. dog barked agreement. the brow of the hill was crowned by a low wall of unmortared stone, encircling a cluster of large buildings; the windmill, its sails creaking as they turned, the cloisters where the brothers slept and the common hall where they took their meals, a wooden sept for prayer and meditation. the sept had windows of leaded glass, wide doors carved with likenesses of the mother and the father, and a seven-sided steeple with a walk on top. behind it was a vegetable garden where some older brothers were pulling weeds. brother narbert led the visitors around a chestnut tree to a wooden door set in the side of the hill. a cave with a door? ser hyle said, surprised. septon meribald smiled. it is called the hermit's hole. the first holy man to find his way here lived therein, and worked such wonders that others came to join him. that was two thousand years ago, they say. the door came somewhat later. perhaps two thousand years ago the hermit's hole had been a damp, dark place, floored with dirt and echoing to the sounds of dripping water, but no longer. the cave that brienne and her companions entered had been turned into a warm, snug sanctum. woolen carpets covered the ground, tapestries the walls. tall beeswax candles gave more than ample light. the furnishings were strange but simple; a long table, a settle, a chest, several tall cases full of books, and chairs. all were made from driftwood, oddly shaped pieces cunningly joined together and polished till they shone a deep gold in the candlelight. the elder brother was not what brienne had expected. he could hardly be called elder, for a start; whereas the brothers weeding in the garden had had the stooped shoulders and bent backs of old men, he stood straight and tall, and moved with the vigor of a man in the prime of his years. nor did he have the gentle, kindly face she expected of a healer. his head was large and square, his eyes shrewd, his nose veined and red. though he wore a tonsure, his scalp was as stubbly as his heavy jaw. he looks more like a man made to break bones than to heal one, thought the maid of tarth, as the elder brother strode across the room to embrace septon meribald and pat dog. it is always a glad day when our friends meribald and dog honor us with another visit, he announced, before turning to his other guests. and new faces are always welcome. we see so few of them. meribald performed the customary courtesies before seating himself upon the settle. unlike septon narbert, the elder brother did not seem dismayed by brienne's sex, but his smile did flicker and fade when the septon told him why she and ser hyle had come. i see, was all he said, before he turned away with, you must be thirsty. please, have some of our sweet cider to wash the dust of travel from your throats. he poured for them himself. the cups were carved from driftwood too, no two the same. when brienne complimented them, he said, my lady is too kind. all we do is cut and polish the wood. we are blessed here. where the river meets the bay, the currents and the tides wrestle one against the other, and many strange and wondrous things are pushed toward us, to wash up on our shores. driftwood is the least of it. we have found silver cups and iron pots, sacks of wool and bolts of silk, rusted helms and shining swords... aye, and rubies. that interested ser hyle. rhaegar's rubies? it may be. who can say? the battle was long leagues from here, but the river is tireless and patient. six have been found. we are all waiting for the seventh. better rubies than bones. septon meribald was rubbing his foot, the mud flaking off beneath his finger. not all the river's gifts are pleasant. the good brothers collect the dead as well. drowned cows, drowned deer, dead pigs swollen up to half the size of horses. aye, and corpses. too many corpses, these days. the elder brother sighed. our gravedigger knows no rest. rivermen, westermen, northmen, all wash up here. knights and knaves alike. we bury them side by side, stark and lannister, blackwood and bracken, frey and darry. that is the duty the river asks of us in return for all its gifts, and we do it as best we can. sometimes we find a woman, though... or worse, a little child. those are the crudest gifts. he turned to septon meribald. i hope that you have time to absolve us of our sins. since the raiders slew old septon bennet, we have had no one to hear confession. i shall make time, said meribald, though i hope you have some better sins than the last time i came through. dog barked. you see? even dog was bored. podrick payne was puzzled. i thought no one could talk. well, not no one. the brothers. the other brothers, not you. we are allowed to break silence when confessing, said the elder brother. it is hard to speak of sin with signs and nods. did they burn the sept at saltpans? asked hyle hunt. the smile vanished. they burned everything at saltpans, save the castle. only that was made of stone... though it had as well been made of suet for all the good it did the town. it fell to me to treat some of the survivors. the fisherfolk brought them across the bay to me after the flames had gone out and they deemed it safe to land. one poor woman had been raped a dozen times, and her breasts... my lady, you wear man's mail, so i shall not spare you these horrors... her breasts had been torn and chewed and eaten, as if by some... cruel beast. i did what i could for her, though that was little enough. as she lay dying, her worst curses were not for the men who had raped her, nor the monster who devoured her living flesh, but for ser quincy cox, who barred his gates when the outlaws entered the town and sat safe behind stone walls as his people screamed and died. ser quincy is an old man, said septon meribald gently. his sons and good-sons are far away or dead, his grandsons are still boys, and he has two daughters. what could he have done, one man against so many? he could have tried, brienne thought. he could have died. old or young, a true knight is sworn to protect those who are weaker than himself, or die in the attempt. true words, and wise, the elder brother said to septon meribald. when you cross to saltpans, no doubt ser quincy will ask you for forgiveness. i am glad that you are here to give it. i could not. he put aside the driftwood cup, and stood. the supper bell will sound soon. my friends, will you come with me to the sept, to pray for the souls of the good folk of saltpans before we sit down to break bread and share some meat and mead? gladly, said meribald. dog barked. their supper in the septry was as strange a meal as brienne had ever eaten, though not at all unpleasant. the food was plain, but very good; there were loaves of crusty bread still warm from the ovens, crocks of fresh-churned butter, honey from the septry's hives, and a thick stew of crabs, mussels, and at least three different kinds offish. septon meribald and ser hyle drank the mead the brothers made, and pronounced it excellent, whilst she and podrick contented themselves with more sweet cider. nor was the meal a somber one. meribald pronounced a prayer before the food was served, and whilst the brothers ate at four long trestle tables, one of their number played for them on the high harp, filling the hall with soft sweet sounds. when the elder brother excused the musician to take his own meal, brother narbert and another proctor took turns reading from the seven-pointed star. by the time the readings were completed, the last of the food had been cleared away by the novices whose task it was to serve. most were boys near podrick's age, or younger, but there were grown men as well, amongst them the big gravedigger they had encountered on the hill, who walked with the awkward lurching gait of one half-crippled. as the hall emptied, the elder brother asked narbert to show podrick and ser hyle to their pallets in the cloisters. you will not mind sharing a cell, i hope? it is not large, but you will find it comfortable. i want to stay with ser, said podrick. i mean, my lady. what you and lady brienne may do elsewhere is between you and the seven, said brother narbert, but on the quiet isle, men and women do not sleep beneath the same roof unless they are wed. we have some modest cottages set aside for the women who visit us, be they noble ladies or common village girls, said the elder brother. they are not oft used, but we keep them clean and dry. lady brienne, would you allow me to show you the way? yes, thank you. podrick, go with ser hyle. we are guests of the holy brothers here. beneath their roof, their rules. the women's cottages were on the east side of the isle, looking out over a broad expanse of mud and the distant waters of the bay of crabs. it was colder here than on the sheltered side, and wilder. the hill was steeper, and the path meandered back and forth through weeds and briars, wind-carved rocks, and twisted, thorny trees that clung tenaciously to the stony hillside. the elder brother brought a lantern to light their way down. at one turn he paused. on a clear night you could see the fires of saltpans from here. across the bay, just there. he pointed. there's nothing, brienne said. only the castle remains. even the fisherfolk are gone, the fortunate few who were out on the water when the raiders came. they watched their houses burn and listened to screams and cries float across the harbor, too fearful to land their boats. when at last they came ashore, it was to bury friends and kin. what is there for them at saltpans now but bones and bitter memories? they have moved to maidenpool or other towns. he gestured with the lantern, and they resumed their descent. saltpans was never an important port, but ships did call there from time to time. that was what the raiders wanted, a galley or a cog to carry them across the narrow sea. when none was at hand, they took their rage and desperation out upon the townsfolk. i wonder, my lady... what do you hope to find there? a girl, she told him. a highborn maid of three-and-ten, with a fair face and auburn hair. sansa stark. the name was softly said. you believe this poor child is with the hound? the dornishman said that she was on her way to riverrun. timeon. he was a sellsword, one of the brave companions, a killer and a raper and a liar, but i do not think he lied about this. he said that the hound stole her and carried her away. i see. the path turned, and there were the cottages ahead of them. the elder brother had called them modest. that they were. they looked like beehives made of stone, low and rounded, windowless. this one, he said, indicating the nearest cottage, the only one with smoke rising from the smokehole in the center of its roof. brienne had to duck when entering to keep from banging her head against the lintel. inside she found a dirt floor, a straw pallet, furs and blankets to keep her warm, a basin of water, a flagon of cider, some bread and cheese, a small fire, and two low chairs. the elder brother sat in one, and put the lantern down. may i stay a while? i feel that we should talk. if you wish. brienne undid her swordbelt and hung it from the second chair, then sat cross- legged on the pallet. your dornishman did not lie, the elder brother began, but i fear you did not understand him. you are chasing the wrong wolf, my lady. eddard stark had two daughters. it was the other one that sandor clegane made off with, the younger one. arya stark? brienne stared open-mouthed, astonished. you know this? lady sansa' s sister is alive? then, said the elder brother. now... i do not know. she may have been amongst the children slain at saltpans. the words were a knife in her belly. no, brienne thought. no, that would be too cruel. may have been... meaning that you are not certain... ? i am certain that the child was with sandor clegane at the inn beside the crossroads, the one old masha heddle used to keep, before the lions hanged her. i am certain they were on their way to saltpans. beyond that... no. i do not know where she is, or even if she lives. there is one thing i do know, however. the man you hunt is dead. that was another shock. how did he die? by the sword, as he had lived. you know this for a certainty? i buried him myself. i can tell you where his grave lies, if you wish. i covered him with stones to keep the carrion eaters from digging up his flesh, and set his helm atop the cairn to mark his final resting place. that was a grievous error. some other wayfarer found my marker and claimed it for himself. the man who raped and killed at saltpans was not sandor clegane, though he may be as dangerous. the riverlands are full of such scavengers. i will not call them wolves. wolves are nobler than that... and so are dogs, i think. i know a little of this man, sandor clegane. he was prince joffrey's sworn shield for many a year, and even here we would hear tell of his deeds, both good and ill. if even half of what we heard was true, this was a bitter, tormented soul, a sinner who mocked both gods and men. he served, but found no pride in service. he fought, but took no joy in victory. he drank, to drown his pain in a sea of wine. he did not love, nor was he loved himself. it was hate that drove him. though he committed many sins, he never sought forgiveness. where other men dream of love, or wealth, or glory, this man sandor clegane dreamed of slaying his own brother, a sin so terrible it makes me shudder just to speak of it. yet that was the bread that nourished him, the fuel that kept his fires burning. ignoble as it was, the hope of seeing his brother's blood upon his blade was all this sad and angry creature lived for... and even that was taken from him, when prince oberyn of dome stabbed ser gregor with a poisoned spear. you sound as if you pity him, said brienne. i did. you would have pitied him as well, if you had seen him at the end. i came upon him by the trident, drawn by his cries of pain. he begged me for the gift of mercy, but i am sworn not to kill again. instead, i bathed his fevered brow with river water, and gave him wine to drink and a poultice for his wound, but my efforts were too little and too late. the hound died there, in my arms. you may have seen a big black stallion in our stables. that was his warhorse, stranger. a blasphemous name. we prefer to call him driftwood, as he was found beside the river. i fear he has his former master's nature. the horse. she had seen the stallion, had heard it kicking, but she had not understood. destriers were trained to kick and bite. in war they were a weapon, like the men who rode them. like the hound. it is true, then, she said dully. sandor clegane is dead. he is at rest. the elder brother paused. you are young, child. i have counted four-and- forty name days... which makes me more than twice your age, i think. would it surprise you to learn that i was once a knight? no. you look more like a knight than you do a holy man. it was written in his chest and shoulders, and across that thick square jaw. why would you give up knighthood? i never chose it. my father was a knight, and his before him. so were my brothers, every one. i was trained for battle since the day they deemed me old enough to hold a wooden sword. i saw my share of them, and did not disgrace myself. i had women too, and there i did disgrace myself, for some i took by force. there was a girl i wished to marry, the younger daughter of a petty lord, but i was my father's thirdborn son and had neither land nor wealth to offer her... only a sword, a horse, a shield. all in all, i was a sad man. when i was not fighting, i was drunk. my life was writ in red, in blood and wine. when did it change? asked brienne. when i died in the battle of the trident. i fought for prince rhaegar, though he never knew my name. i could not tell you why, save that the lord i served served a lord who served a lord who had decided to support the dragon rather than the stag. had he decided elsewise, i might have been on the other side of the river. the battle was a bloody thing. the singers would have us believe it was all rhaegar and robert struggling in the stream for a woman both of them claimed to love, but i assure you, other men were fighting too, and i was one. i took an arrow through the thigh and another through the foot, and my horse was killed from under me, yet i fought on. i can still remember how desperate i was to find another horse, for i had no coin to buy one, and without a horse i would no longer be a knight. that was all that i was thinking of, if truth be told. i never saw the blow that felled me. i heard hooves behind my back and thought, a horse! but before i could turn something slammed into my head and knocked me back into the river, where by rights i should have drowned. instead i woke here, upon the quiet isle. the elder brother told me i had washed up on the tide, naked as my name day. i can only think that someone found me in the shallows, stripped me of my armor, boots, and breeches, and pushed me back out into the deeper water. the river did the rest. we are all born naked, so i suppose it was only fitting that i come into my second life the same way. i spent the next ten years in silence. i see. brienne did not know why he was telling her all of this, or what else she ought to say. do you? he leaned forward, his big hands on his knees. if so, give up this quest of yours. the hound is dead, and in any case he never had your sansa stark. as for this beast who wears his helm, he will be found and hanged. the wars are ending, and these outlaws cannot survive the peace. randyll tarly is hunting them from maidenpool and walder frey from the twins, and there is a new young lord in darry, a pious man who will surely set his lands to rights. go home, child. you have a home, which is more than many can say in these dark days. you have a noble father who must surely love you. consider his grief if you should never return. perhaps they will bring your sword and shield to him, after you have fallen. perhaps he will even hang them in his hall and look on them with pride... but if you were to ask him, i know he would tell you that he would sooner have a living daughter than a shattered shield. a daughter. brienne 's eyes filled with tears. he deserves that. a daughter who could sing to him and grace his hall and bear him grandsons. he deserves a son too, a strong and gallant son to bring honor to his name. galladon drowned when i was four and he was eight, though, and alysanne and arianne died still in the cradle. i am the only child the gods let him keep. the freakish one, not fit to be a son or daughter. all of it came pouring out of brienne then, like black blood from a wound; the betrayals and betrothals, red ronnet and his rose, lord renly dancing with her, the wager for her maidenhead, the bitter tears she shed the night her king wed margaery tyrell, the melee at bitterbridge, the rainbow cloak that she had been so proud of, the shadow in the king's pavilion, renly dying in her arms, riverrun and lady catelyn, the voyage down the trident, dueling jaime in the woods, the bloody mummers, jaime crying sapphires, jaime in the tub at harrenhal with steam rising from his body, the taste of vargo hoat's blood when she bit down on his ear, the bear pit, jaime leaping down onto the sand, the long ride to king's landing, sansa stark, the vow she'd sworn to jaime, the vow she'd sworn to lady catelyn, oathkeeper, duskendale, maidenpool, nimble dick and crackclaw and the whispers, the men she'd killed... i have to find her, she finished. there are others looking, all wanting to capture her and sell her to the queen. i have to find her first. i promised jaime. oathkeeper, he named the sword. i have to try to save her... or die in the attempt. they came upon the first corpse a mile from the crossroads. he swung beneath the limb of a dead tree whose blackened trunk still bore the scars of the lightning that had killed it. the carrion crows had been at work on his face, and wolves had feasted on his lower legs where they dangled near the ground. only bones and rags remained below his knees... along with one well-chewed shoe, half-covered by mud and mold. what does he have in his mouth? asked podrick. brienne had to steel herself to look. his face was grey and green and ghastly, his mouth open and distended. someone had shoved a jagged white rock between his teeth. a rock, or... salt, said septon meribald. fifty yards farther on they spied the second body. the scavengers had torn him down, so what remained of him was strewn on the ground beneath a frayed rope looped about the limb of an elm. brienne might have ridden past him, unawares, if dog had not sniffed him out and loped into the weeds for a closer smell. what do you have there, dog? ser hyle dismounted, strode after the dog, and came up with a halfhelm. the dead man's skull was still inside it, along with some worms and beetles. good steel, he pronounced, and not too badly dinted, though the lion's lost his head. pod, would you like a helm? not that one. it's got worms in it. worms wash out, lad. you're squeamish as a girl. brienne scowled at him. it is too big for him. he'll grow into it. i don't want to, said podrick. ser hyle shrugged, and tossed the broken helm back into the weeds, lion crest and all. dog barked and went to lift his leg against the tree. after that, hardly a hundred yards went by without a corpse. they dangled under ash and alder, beech and birch, larch and elm, hoary old willows and stately chestnut trees. each man wore a noose around his neck, and swung from a length of hempen rope, and each man's mouth was packed with salt. some wore cloaks of grey or blue or crimson, though rain and sun had faded them so badly that it was hard to tell one color from another. others had badges sewn on their breasts. brienne spied axes, arrows, several salmon, a pine tree, an oak leaf, beetles, bantams, a boar's head, half a dozen tridents. broken men, she realized, dregs from a dozen armies, the leavings of the lords. some of the dead men had been bald and some bearded, some young and some old, some short, some tall, some fat, some thin. swollen in death, with faces gnawed and rotten, they all looked the same. on the gallows tree, all men are brothers. brienne had read that in a book, though she could not recall which one. it was hyle hunt who finally put words to what all of them had realized. these are the men who raided saltpans. may the father judge them harshly, said meribald, who had been a friend to the town's aged septon. who they were did not concern brienne half so much as who had hanged them. the noose was the preferred method of execution for beric dondarrion and his band of outlaws, it was said. if so, the so-called lightning lord might well be near. dog barked, and septon meribald glanced about and frowned. shall we keep a brisker pace? the sun will soon be setting, and corpses make poor company by night. these were dark and dangerous men, alive. i doubt that death will have improved them. there we disagree, said ser hyle. these are just the sort of fellows who are most improved by death. all the same, he put his heels into his horse, and they moved a little faster. farther on the trees began to thin, though not the corpses. the woods gave way to muddy fields, tree limbs to gibbets. clouds of crows rose screeching from the bodies as the travelers came near, and settled again once they had passed. these were evil men, brienne reminded herself, yet the sight still made her sad. she forced herself to look at every man in turn, searching for familiar faces. a few she thought she recognized from harrenhal, but their condition made it hard to be certain. none had a hound's head helm, but few had helms of any sort. most had been stripped of arms, armor, and boots before they were strung up. when podrick asked the name of the inn where they hoped to spend the night, septon meribald seized upon the question eagerly, perhaps to take their minds off the grisly sentinels along the roadside. the old inn, some call it. there has been an inn there for many hundreds of years, though this inn was only raised during the reign of the first jaehaerys, the king who built the kingsroad. jaehaerys and his queen slept there during their journeys, it is said. for a time the inn was known as the two crowns in their honor, until one innkeep built a bell tower, and changed it to the bellringer inn. later it passed to a crippled knight named long jon heddle, who took up ironworking when he grew too old to fight. he forged a new sign for the yard, a three-headed dragon of black iron that he hung from a wooden post. the beast was so big it had to be made in a dozen pieces, joined with rope and wire. when the wind blew it would clank and clatter, so the inn became known far and wide as the clanking dragon. is the dragon sign still there? asked podrick. no, said septon meribald. when the smith's son was an old man, a bastard son of the fourth aegon rose up in rebellion against his trueborn brother and took for his sigil a black dragon. these lands belonged to lord darry then, and his lordship was fiercely loyal to the king. the sight of the black iron dragon made him wroth, so he cut down the post, hacked the sign into pieces, and cast them into the river. one of the dragon's heads washed up on the quiet isle many years later, though by that time it was red with rust. the innkeep never hung another sign, so men forgot the dragon and took to calling the place the river inn. in those days, the trident flowed beneath its back door, and half its rooms were built out over the water. guests could throw a line out their window and catch trout, it's said. there was a ferry landing here as well, so travelers could cross to lord harroway's town and whitewalls. we left the trident south of here, and have been riding north and west... not toward the river but away from it. aye, my lady, the septon said. the river moved. seventy years ago, it was. or was it eighty? it was when old masha heddle's grandfather kept the place. it was her who told me all this history. a kindly woman, masha, fond of sourleaf and honey cakes. when she did not have a room for me, she would let me sleep beside the hearth, and she never sent me on my way without some bread and cheese and a few stale cakes. is she the innkeep now? asked podrick. no. the lions hanged her. after they moved on, i heard that one of her nephews tried opening the inn again, but the wars had made the roads too dangerous for common folk to travel, so there was little custom. he brought in whores, but even that could not save him. some lord killed him as well, i hear. ser hyle made a wry face. i never dreamed that keeping an inn could be so deadly dangerous. it is being common-born that is dangerous, when the great lords play their game of thrones, said septon meribald. isn't that so, dog? dog barked agreement. so, said podrick, does the inn have a name now? the smallfolk call it the crossroads inn. elder brother told me that two of masha heddle's nieces have opened it to trade once again. he raised his staff. if the gods are good, that smoke rising beyond the hanged men will be from its chimneys. they could call the place the gallows inn, ser hyle said. by any name the inn was large, rising three stories above the muddy roads, its walls and turrets and chimneys made of fine white stone that glimmered pale and ghostly against the grey sky. its south wing had been built upon heavy wooden pilings above a cracked and sunken expanse of weeds and dead brown grass. a thatch-roofed stable and a bell tower were attached to the north side. the whole sprawl was surrounded by a low wall of broken white stones overgrown by moss. at least no one has burned it down. at saltpans, they had found only death and desolation. by the time brienne and her companions were ferried over from the quiet isle, the survivors had fled and the dead had been given to the ground, but the corpse of the town itself remained, ashen and unburied. the air still smelled of smoke, and the cries of the seagulls floating overhead sounded almost human, like the lamentations of lost children. even the castle had seemed forlorn and abandoned. grey as the ashes of the town around it, the castle consisted of a square keep girded by a curtain wall, built so as to overlook the harbor. it was closed tight as brienne and the others led their horses off the ferry, nothing moving on its battlements but banners. it took a quarter hour of dog barking and septon meribald knocking on the front gate with his quarterstaff before a woman appeared above them to demand their business. by that time the ferry had departed and it had begun to rain. i am a holy septon, good lady, meribald had shouted up, and these are honest travelers. we seek shelter from the rain, and a place by your fire for the night. the woman had been unmoved by his appeals. the closest inn is at the crossroads, to the west, she replied. we want no strangers here. begone. once she vanished, neither meribald's prayers, dog's barks, nor ser hyle's curses could bring her back. in the end they had spent the night in the woods, beneath a shelter made of woven branches. there was life at the crossroads inn, though. even before they reached the gate, brienne heard the sound: a hammering, faint but steady. it had a steely ring. a forge, ser hyle said. either they have themselves a smith, or the old innkeep's ghost is making another iron dragon. he put his heels into his horse. i hope they have a ghostly cook as well. a crisp roast chicken would set the world aright. the inn's yard was a sea of brown mud that sucked at the hooves of the horses. the clang of steel was louder here, and brienne saw the red glow of the forge down past the far end of the stables, behind an oxcart with a broken wheel. she could see horses in the stables too, and a small boy was swinging from the rusted chains of the weathered gibbet that loomed above the yard. four girls stood on the inn's porch, watching him. the youngest was no more than two, and naked. the oldest, nine or ten, stood with her arms protectively about the little one. girls, ser hyle called to them, run and fetch your mother. the boy dropped from the chain and dashed off toward the stables. the four girls stood fidgeting. after a moment one said, we have no mothers, and another added, i had one but they killed her. the oldest of the four stepped forward, pushing the little one behind her skirts. who are you? she demanded. honest travelers seeking shelter. my name is brienne, and this is septon meribald, who is well-known through the riverlands. the boy is my squire, podrick payne, the knight ser hyle hunt. the hammering stopped suddenly. the girl on the porch looked them over, wary as only a ten- year-old can be. i'm willow. will you be wanting beds? beds, and ale, and hot food to fill our bellies, said ser hyle hunt as he dismounted. are you the innkeep? she shook her head. that's my sister jeyne. she's not here. all we have to eat is horse meat. if you come for whores, there are none. my sister run them off. we have beds, though. some featherbeds, but more are straw. and all have fleas, i don't doubt, said ser hyle. do you have coin to pay? silver? ser hyle laughed. silver? for a night's bed and a haunch of horse? do you mean to rob us, child? we'll have silver. else you can sleep in the woods with the dead men. willow glanced toward the donkey, and the casks and bundles on his back. is that food? where did you get it? maidenpool, said meribald. dog barked. do you question all your guests this way? asked ser hyle. we don't have so many guests. not like before the war. it's mostly sparrows on the roads these days, or worse. worse? brienne asked. thieves, said a boy's voice from the stables. robbers. brienne turned, and saw a ghost. renly. no hammerblow to the heart could have felled her half so hard. my lord? she gasped. lord? the boy pushed back a lock of black hair that had fallen across his eyes. i'm just a smith. he is not renly, brienne realized. renly is dead. renly died in my arms, a man of one-and- twenty. this is a only a boy. a boy who looked as renly had, the first time he came to tarth. no, younger. his jaw is squarer, his brows bushier. renly had been lean and lithe, whereas this boy had the heavy shoulders and muscular right arm so often seen on smiths. he wore a long leather apron, but under it his chest was bare. a dark stubble covered his cheeks and chin, and his hair was a thick black mop that grew down past his ears. king renly' s hair had been that same coal black, but his had always been washed and brushed and combed. sometimes he cut it short, and sometimes he let it fall loose to his shoulders, or tied it back behind his head with a golden ribbon, but it was never tangled or matted with sweat. and though his eyes had been that same deep blue, lord renly's eyes had always been warm and welcoming, full of laughter, whereas this boy's eyes brimmed with anger and suspicion. septon meribald saw it too. we mean no harm, lad. when masha heddle owned this inn she always had a honey cake for me. sometimes she even let me have a bed, if the inn was not full. she's dead, the boy said. the lions hanged her. hanging seems your favorite sport in these parts, said ser hyle hunt. would that i had some land hereabouts. i'd plant hemp, sell rope, and make my fortune. all these children, brienne said to the girl willow. are they your... sisters? brothers? kin and cousins? no. willow was staring at her, in a way that she knew well. they're just... i don't know... the sparrows bring them here, sometimes. others find their own way. if you're a woman, why are you dressed up like a man? septon meribald answered. lady brienne is a warrior maid upon a quest. just now, though, she is in need of a dry bed and a warm fire. as are we all. my old bones say it's going to rain again, and soon. do you have rooms for us? no, said the boy smith. yes, said the girl willow. they glared at one another. then willow stomped her foot. they have food, gendry. the little ones are hungry. she whistled, and more children appeared as if by magic; ragged boys with unshorn locks crept from under the porch, and furtive girls appeared in the windows overlooking the yard. some clutched crossbows, wound and loaded. they could call it crossbow inn, ser hyle suggested. orphan inn would be more apt, thought brienne. wat, you help them with those horses, said willow. will, put down that rock, they've not come to hurt us. tansy, pate, run get some wood to feed the fire. jon penny, you help the septon with those bundles. i'll show them to some rooms. in the end they took three rooms adjoining one another, each boasting a featherbed, a chamber pot, and a window. brienne's room had a hearth as well. she paid a few pennies more for some wood. will i sleep in your room, or ser hyle's? podrick asked as she was opening the shutters. this is not the quiet isle, she told him. you can stay with me. come the morrow she meant for the two of them to strike out on their own. septon meribald was going on to nutten, riverbend, and lord harroway's town, but brienne saw no sense in following him any farther. he had dog to keep him company, and the elder brother had persuaded her that she would not find sansa stark along the trident. i mean to rise before the sun comes up, whilst ser hyle is still sleeping. brienne had not forgiven him for highgarden... and as he himself had said, hunt had sworn no vows concerning sansa. where will we go, ser? i mean, my lady? brienne had no ready answer for him. they had come to the crossroads, quite literally; the place where the kingsroad, the river road, and the high road all came together. the high road would take them east through the mountains to the vale of arryn, where lady s ansa's aunt had ruled until her death. west ran the river road, which followed the course of the red fork to riverrun and sansa's great-uncle, who was besieged but still alive. or they could ride the kingsroad north, past the twins and through the neck with its bogs and marshes. if she could find a way past moat cailin and whoever held it now, the kingsroad would bring them all the way to winterfell. or i could take the kingsroad south, brienne thought. i could slink back to king's landing, confess my failure to ser jaime, give him back his sword, and find a ship to carry me home to tarth, as the elder brother urged. the thought was a bitter one, yet there was part of her that yearned for evenfall and her father, and another part that wondered if jaime would comfort her should she weep upon his shoulder. that was what men wanted, wasn't it? soft helpless women that they needed to protect? ser? my lady? i asked, where are we going? down to the common room, to supper. the common room was crawling with children. brienne tried to count them, but they would not stand still even for an instant, so she counted some of them twice or thrice and others not at all, until she finally gave it up. they had pushed the tables together in three long rows, and the older boys were wrestling benches from the back. older here meant ten or twelve. gendry was the closest thing to a man grown, but it was willow shouting all the orders, as if she were a queen in her castle and the other children were no more than servants. if she were highborn, command would come naturally to her, and deference to them. brienne wondered whether willow might be more than she appeared. the girl was too young and too plain to be sansa stark, but she was of the right age to be the younger sister, and even lady catelyn had said that arya lacked her sister's beauty. brown hair, brown eyes, skinny... could it be? arya stark's hair was brown, she recalled, but brienne was not sure of the color of her eyes. brown and brown, was that it? could it be that she did not die at saltpans after all? outside, the last light of day was fading. inside, willow had four greasy tallow candles lit and told the girls to keep the hearthfire burning high and hot. the boys helped podrick payne unpack the donkey and carried in the salt cod, mutton, vegetables, nuts, and wheels of cheese, whilst septon meribald repaired to the kitchens to take charge of the porridge. alas, my oranges are gone, and i doubt that i shall see another till the spring, he told one small boy. have you ever had an orange, lad? squeezed one and sucked down that fine juice? when the boy shook his head no, the septon mussed his hair. then i'll bring you one, come spring, if you will be a good lad and help me stir the porridge. ser hyle pulled off his boots to warm his feet by the fire. when brienne sat down next to him, he nodded at the far end of the room. there are bloodstains on the floor over there where dog is sniffing. they've been scrubbed, but the blood soaked deep into the wood, and there's no getting it out. this is the inn where sandor clegane killed three of his brother's men, she reminded him. 'tis that, hunt agreed, but who is to say that they were the first to die here... or that they'll be the last. are you afraid of a few children? four would be a few. ten would be a surfeit. this is a cacophony. children should be wrapped in swaddling clothes and hung upon the wall until the girls grow breasts and the boys are old enough to shave. i feel sorry for them. all of them have lost their mothers and fathers. some have seen them slain. hunt rolled his eyes. i forgot that i was talking to a woman. your heart is as mushy as our septon's porridge. can it be? somewhere inside our swordswench is a mother just squirming to give birth. what you really want is a sweet pink babe to suckle at your teat. ser hyle grinned. you need a man for that, i hear. a husband, preferably. why not me? if you still hope to win your wager   what i want to win is you, lord selwyn's only living child. i've known men to wed lackwits and suckling babes for prizes a tenth the size of tarth. i am not renly baratheon, i confess it, but i have the virtue of being still amongst the living. some would say that is my only virtue. marriage would serve the both of us. lands for me, and a castle full of these for you. he waved his hand at the children. i am capable, i assure you. i've sired at least one bastard that i know of. have no fear, i shan't inflict her upon you. the last time i went to see her, her mother doused me with a kettle of soup. a flush crept up her neck. my father's only four-and-fifty. not too old to wed again and get a son by his new wife. that's a risk... if your father weds again and if his bride proves fertile and if the babe's a boy. i've made worse wagers. and lost them. play your game with someone else, ser. so speaks a maid who has never played the game with anyone. once you do you'll take a different view. in the dark you'd be as beautiful as any other woman. your lips were made for kissing. they are lips, said brienne. all lips are the same. and all lips are made for kissing, hunt agreed pleasantly. leave your chamber door unbarred tonight, and i will steal into your bed and prove the truth of what i say. if you do, you'll be a eunuch when you leave. brienne got up and walked away from him. septon meribald asked if he might lead the children in a grace, ignoring the small girl crawling naked across the table. aye, said willow, snatching up the crawler before she reached the porridge. so they bowed their heads together and thanked the father and the mother for their bounty... all but the black-haired boy from the forge, who crossed his arms against his chest and sat glowering as the others prayed. brienne was not the only one to notice. when the prayer was done septon meribald looked across the table, and said, do you have no love for the gods, son? not for your gods. gendry stood abruptly. i have work to do. he stalked out without a bite of food. is there some other god he loves? asked hyle hunt. the lord of light, piped one scrawny boy, nigh to six. willow hit him with her spoon. ben big mouth. there's food. you should be eating it, not bothering m'lords with talk. the children fell upon the supper like wolves upon a wounded deer, quarreling over codfish, tearing the barley bread to pieces, and getting porridge everywhere. even the huge wheel of cheese did not long survive. brienne contented herself with fish and bread and carrots, whilst septon meribald fed two morsels to dog for every one he ate himself. outside, a rain began to fall. inside, the fire crackled, and the common room was filled by the sounds of chewing, and willow smacking children with her spoon. one day that little girl will make some man a frightful wife, ser hyle observed. that poor 'prentice boy, most like. someone should take him some food before it's all gone. you're someone. she wrapped a wedge of cheese, a heel of bread, a dried apple, and two chunks of flaky fried cod in a square of cloth. when podrick got up to follow her outside, she told him to sit back down and eat. i will not be long. the rain was coming down heavy in the yard. brienne covered the food with a fold of her cloak. some of the horses whinnied at her as she made her way past the stables. they are hungry too. gendry was at his forge, bare-chested beneath his leather apron. he was beating on a sword as if he wished it were a foe, his sweat-soaked hair falling across his brow. she watched him for a moment. he has renly's eyes and renly's hair, but not his build. lord renly was more lithe than brawny... not like his brother robert, whose strength was fabled. it was not until he stopped to wipe his brow that gendry saw her standing there. what do you want? i brought supper. she opened the cloth for him to see. if i wanted food, i would have eaten some. a smith needs to eat to keep his strength up. are you my mother? no. she put down the food. who was your mother? what's that to you? you were born in king's landing. the way he spoke made her certain of it. me and many more. he plunged the sword into a tub of rainwater to quench it. the hot steel hissed angrily. how old are you? brienne asked. is your mother still alive? and your father, who was he? you ask too many questions. he set down the sword. my mother's dead and i never knew my father. you're a bastard. he took it for an insult. i'm a knight. that sword will be mine own, once it's done. what would a knight be doing working at a smithy? you have black hair and blue eyes, and you were born in the shadow of the red keep. has no one ever remarked upon your face? what's wrong with my face? it's not as ugly as yours. in king's landing you must have seen king robert. he shrugged. sometimes. at tourneys, from afar. once at baelor's sept. the gold cloaks shoved us aside so he could pass. another time i was playing near the mud gate when he come back from a hunt. he was so drunk he almost rode me down. a big fat sot, he was, but a better king than these sons of his. they are not his sons. stannis told it true, that day he met with renly. joffrey and tommen were never robert's sons. this boy, though... listen to me, brienne began. then she heard dog barking, loud and frantic. someone is coming. friends, said gendry, unconcerned. what sort of friends? brienne moved to the door of the smithy to peer out through the rain. he shrugged. you'll meet them soon enough. i may not want to meet them, brienne thought, as the first riders came splashing through the puddles into the yard. beneath the patter of the rain and dog's barking, she could hear the faint clink of swords and mail from beneath their ragged cloaks. she counted them as they came. two, four, six, seven. some of them were wounded, judging from the way they rode. the last man was massive and hulking, as big as two of the others. his horse was blown and bloody, staggering beneath his weight. all the riders had their hoods up against the lashing rain, save him alone. his face was broad and hairless, maggot white, his round cheeks covered with weeping sores. brienne sucked in her breath and drew oathkeeper. too many, she thought, with a start of fear, they are too many. gendry, she said in a low voice, you'll want a sword, and armor. these are not your friends. they're no one's friends. what are you talking about? the boy came and stood beside her, his hammer in his hand. lightning cracked to the south as the riders swung down off their horses. for half a heartbeat darkness turned to day. an axe gleamed silvery blue, light shimmered off mail and plate, and beneath the dark hood of the lead rider brienne glimpsed an iron snout and rows of steel teeth, snarling. gendry saw it too. him. not him. his helm. brienne tried to keep the fear from her voice, but her mouth was dry as dust. she had a pretty good notion who wore the hound's helm. the children, she thought. the door to the inn banged open. willow stepped out into the rain, a crossbow in her hands. the girl was shouting at the riders, but a clap of thunder rolled across the yard, drowning out her words. as it faded, brienne heard the man in the hound's helm say, loose a quarrel at me and i'll shove that crossbow up your cunt and fuck you with it. then i'll pop your fucking eyes out and make you eat them. the fury in the man's voice drove willow back a step, trembling. seven, brienne thought again, despairing. she had no chance against seven, she knew. no chance, and no choice. she stepped out into the rain, oathkeeper in hand. leave her be. if you want to rape someone, try me. the oulaws turned as one. one laughed, and another said something in a tongue brienne did not know. the huge one with the broad white face gave a malevolent hissssssssssssssss. the man in the hound's helm began to laugh. you're even uglier than i remembered. i'd sooner rape your horse. horses, that's what we want, one of the wounded men said. fresh horses, and some food. there are outlaws after us. give us your horses and we'll be gone. we won't do you harm. fuck that. the outlaw in the hound's helm yanked a battle axe off his saddle. i want to cut her bloody legs off. i'll set her on her stumps so she can watch me fuck the crossbow girl. with what? taunted brienne. shagwell said they cut your manhood off when they took your nose. she meant it to provoke him, and it did. bellowing curses, he came at her, his feet sending up splashes of black water as he charged. the others stood back to watch the show, as she had prayed they might. brienne stayed as still as stone, waiting. the yard was dark, the mud slippery underfoot. better to let him come to me. if the gods are good, he'll slip and fall. the gods were not that good, but her sword was. five steps, four steps, now, brienne counted, and oathkeeper swept up to meet his rush. steel crashed against steel as her blade bit through his rags and opened a gash in his chainmail, even as his axe came crashing down at her. she twisted aside, slashing at his chest again as she retreated. he followed, staggering and bleeding, roaring rage. whore! he boomed. freak! bitch! i'll give you to my dog to fuck, you bloody bitch! his axe whirled in murderous arcs, a brutal black shadow that turned silver every time the lightning flashed. brienne had no shield to catch the blows. all she could do was slide back away from him, darting this way and that as the axehead flew at her. once the mud gave way under her heel and she almost fell, but somehow she recovered herself, though the axe grazed her left shoulder that time and left a blaze of pain in its wake. you got the bitch! one of the others called, and another said, let's see her dance away from that one. dance she did, relieved that they were watching. better that than have them interfere. she could not fight seven, not alone, even if one or two were wounded. old ser goodwin was long in his grave, yet she could hear him whispering in her ear. men will always underestimate you, he said, and their pride will make them want to vanquish you quickly, lest it be said that a woman tried them sorely. let them spend their strength in furious attacks, whilst you conserve your own. wait and watch, girl, wait and watch. she waited, watching, moving sideways, then backwards, then sideways again, slashing now at his face, now at his legs, now at his arm. his blows came more slowly as his axe grew heavier. brienne turned him so the rain was in his eyes, and stepped back two quick steps. he wrenched his axe up once more, cursing, and lurched after her, one foot sliding in the mud... ... and she leapt to meet his rush, both hands on her sword hilt. his headlong charge brought him right onto her point, and oathkeeper punched through cloth and mail and leather and more cloth, deep into his bowels and out his back, rasping as it scraped along his spine. his axe fell from limp fingers, and the two of them slammed together, brienne's face mashed up against the dog's head helm. she felt the cold wet metal against her cheek. rain ran down the steel in rivers, and when the lightning flashed again she saw pain and fear and rank disbelief through the eye slits. sapphires, she whispered at him, as she gave her blade a hard twist that made him shudder. his weight sagged heavily against her, and all at once it was a corpse that she embraced, there in the black rain. she stepped back and let him fall... ... and biter crashed into her, shrieking. he fell on her like an avalanche of wet wool and milk-white flesh, lifting her off her feet and slamming her down into the ground. she landed in a puddle with a splash that sent water up her nose and into her eyes. all the air was driven out of her, and her head snapped down against some half-buried stone with a crack. no, was all that she had time to say before he fell on top of her, his weight driving her deeper into the mud. one of his hands was in her hair, pulling her head back. the other groped for her throat. oathkeeper was gone, torn from her grasp. she had only her hands to fight him off, but when she slammed a fist into his face it was like punching a ball of wet white dough. he hissed at her. she hit him again, again, again, smashing the heel of her hand into his eye, but he did not seem to feel her blows. she clawed at his wrists, but his grip just grew tighter, though blood ran from the gouges where she scratched him. he was crushing her, smothering her. she pushed at his shoulders to get him off her, but he was heavy as a horse, impossible to move. when she tried to knee him in the groin, all she did was drive her knee into his belly. grunting, biter tore out a handful of her hair. my dagger. brienne clutched at the thought, desperate. she worked her hand down between them, fingers squirming under his sour, suffocating flesh, searching until they finally found the hilt. biter locked both his hands about her neck and began to slam her head against the ground. the lightning flashed again, this time inside her skull, yet somehow her fingers tightened, pulled the dagger from its sheath. with him on top of her, she could not raise the blade to stab, so she drew it hard across his belly. something warm and wet gushed between her fingers. biter hissed again, louder than before, and let go of her throat just long enough to smash her in the face. she heard bones crack, and the pain blinded her for an instant. when she tried to slash at him again, he wrenched the dagger from her fingers and slammed a knee down onto her forearm, breaking it. then he seized her head again and resumed trying to tear it off her shoulders. brienne could hear dog barking, and men were shouting all about her, and between the claps of thunder she heard the clash of steel on steel. ser hyle, she thought, ser hyle has joined the fight, but all that seemed far away and unimportant. her world was no larger than the hands at her throat and the face that loomed above her. the rain ran off his hood as he leaned closer. his breath stank like cheese gone rotten. brienne 's chest was burning, and the storm was behind her eyes, blinding her. bones ground against each other inside of her. biter's mouth gaped open, impossibly wide. she saw his teeth, yellow and crooked, filed into points. when they closed on the soft meat of her cheek, she hardly felt it. she could feel herself spiraling down into the dark. i cannot die yet, she told herself, there is something i still need to do. biter's mouth tore free, full of blood and flesh. he spat, grinned, and sank his pointed teeth into her flesh again. this time he chewed and swallowed. he is eating me, she realized, but she had no strength left to fight him any longer. she felt as if she were floating above herself, watching the horror as if it were happening to some other woman, to some stupid girl who thought she was a knight. it will be finished soon, she told herself. then it will not matter if he eats me. biter threw back his head and opened his mouth again, howling, and stuck his tongue out at her. it was sharply pointed, dripping blood, longer than any tongue should be. sliding from his mouth, out and out and out, red and wet and glistening, it made a hideous sight, obscene. his tongue is a foot long, brienne thought, just before the darkness took her. why, it looks almost like a sword. this is an evil dream, she thought. but if she were dreaming, why did it hurt so much? the rain had stopped falling, but all the world was wet. her cloak felt as heavy as her mail. the ropes that bound her wrists were soaked through, but that only made them tighter. no matter how brienne turned her hands, she could not slip free. she did not understand who had bound her, or why. she tried to ask the shadows, but they did not answer. perhaps they did not hear her. perhaps they were not real. under her layers of wet wool and rusting mail, her skin was flushed and feverish. she wondered whether all of this was just a fever dream. she had a horse beneath her, though she could not remember mounting. she lay facedown across his hindquarters, like a sack of oats. her wrists and ankles had been lashed together. the air was damp, the ground cloaked in mist. her head pounded with every step. she could hear voices, but all she could see was the earth beneath the horse's hooves. there were things broken inside of her. her face felt swollen, her cheek was sticky with blood, and every jounce and bounce send a stab of agony through her arm. she could hear podrick calling her, as if from far away. ser? he kept saying. ser? my lady? ser? my lady? his voice was faint and hard to hear. finally, there was only silence. she dreamt she was at harrenhal, down in the bear pit once again. this time it was biter facing her, huge and bald and maggot-white, with weeping sores upon his cheeks. naked he came, fondling his member, gnashing his filed teeth together. brienne fled from him. my sword, she called. oathkeeper. please. the watchers did not answer. renly was there, with nimble dick and catelyn stark. shagwell, pyg, and timeon had come, and the corpses from the trees with their sunken cheeks, swollen tongues, and empty eye sockets. brienne wailed in horror at the sight of them, and biter grabbed her arm and yanked her close and tore a chunk from her face. jaime, she heard herself scream, jaime. even in the depths of dream the pain was there. her face throbbed. her shoulder bled. breathing hurt. the pain crackled up her arm like lightning. she cried out for a maester. we have no maester, said a girl's voice. only me. i am looking for a girl, brienne remembered. a highborn maid of three-and-ten, with blue eyes and auburn hair. my lady? she said. lady sansa? a man laughed. she thinks you're sansa stark. she can't go much farther. she'll die. one less lion. i won't weep. brienne heard the sound of someone praying. she thought of septon meribald, but all the words were wrong. the night is dark and full of terrors, and so are dreams. they were riding through a gloomy wood, a dank, dark, silent place where the pines pressed close. the ground was soft beneath her horse's hooves, and the tracks she left behind filled up with blood. beside her rode lord renly, dick crabb, and vargo hoat. blood ran from renly' s throat. the goat's torn ear oozed pus. where are we going? brienne asked. where are you taking me? none of them would answer. how can they answer? all of them are dead. did that mean that she was dead as well? lord renly was ahead of her, her sweet smiling king. he was leading her horse through the trees. brienne called out to tell him how much she loved him, but when he turned to scowl at her, she saw that he was not renly after all. renly never scowled. he always had a smile for me, she thought... except... cold, her king said, puzzled, and a shadow moved without a man to cast it, and her sweet lord's blood came washing through the green steel of his gorget to drench her hands. he had been a warm man, but his blood was cold as ice. this is not real, she told herself. this is another bad dream, and soon i'll wake. her mount came to a sudden halt. rough hands seized hold of her. she saw shafts of red afternoon light slanting through the branches of a chestnut tree. a horse rooted amongst the dead leaves after chestnuts, and men moved nearby, talking in quiet voices. ten, twelve, maybe more. brienne did not recognize their faces. she was stretched out on the ground, her back against a tree trunk. drink this, m'lady, said the girl's voice. she lifted a cup to brienne's lips. the taste was strong and sour. brienne spat it out. water, she gasped. please. water. water won't help the pain. this will. a little. the girl put the cup to brienne's lips again. it even hurt to drink. wine ran down her chin and dribbled on her chest. when the cup was empty the girl filled it from a skin. brienne sucked it down until she sputtered. no more. more. you have a broken arm, and some of your ribs is cracked. two, maybe three. biter, brienne said, remembering the weight of him, the way his knee had slammed into her chest. aye. a real monster, that one. it all came back to her; lightning above and mud below, the rain pinging softly against the dark steel of the hound's helm, the terrible strength in biter's hands. suddenly she could not stand being bound. she tried to wrench free of her ropes, but all that did was chafe her worse. her wrists were tied too tightly. there was dried blood on the hemp. is he dead? she trembled. biter. is he dead? she remembered his teeth tearing into the flesh of her face. the thought that he might still be out there somewhere, breathing, made brienne want to scream. he's dead. gendry shoved a spearpoint through the back of his neck. drink, m'lady, or i'll pour it down your throat. she drank. i am looking for a girl, she whispered, between swallows. she almost said my sister. a highborn maid of three-and-ten. she has blue eyes and auburn hair. i'm not her. no. brienne could see that. the girl was thin to the point of looking starved. she wore her brown hair in a braid, and her eyes were older than her years. brown hair, brown eyes, plain. willow, six years older. you're the sister. the innkeep. i might be. the girl squinted. what if i am? do you have a name? brienne asked. her stomach gurgled. she was afraid that she might retch. heddle. same as willow. jeyne heddle. jeyne. untie my hands. please. have pity. the ropes are chafing my wrists. i'm bleeding. it's not allowed. you're to stay bound, till... ... till you stand before m'lady. renly stood behind the girl, pushing his black hair out of his eyes. not renly. gendry. m'lady means for you to answer for your crimes. m'lady. the wine was making her head spin. it was hard to think. stoneheart. is that who you mean? lord randyll had spoken of her, back at maidenpool. lady stoneheart. some call her that. some call her other things. the silent sister. mother merciless. the hangwoman. the hangwoman. when brienne closed her eyes, she saw the corpses swaying underneath the bare brown limbs, their faces black and swollen. suddenly she was desperately afraid. podrick. my squire. where is podrick? and the others... ser hyle, septon meribald. dog. what did you do with dog? gendry and the girl exchanged a look. brienne fought to rise, and managed to get one knee under her before the world began to spin. it was you killed the dog, m'lady, she heard gendry say, just before the darkness swallowed her again. then she was back at the whispers, standing amongst the ruins and facing clarence crabb. he was huge and fierce, mounted on an aurochs shaggier than he was. the beast pawed the ground in fury, tearing deep furrows in the earth. crabb's teeth had been filed into points. when brienne went to draw her sword, she found her scabbard empty. no, she cried, as ser clarence charged. it wasn't fair. she could not fight without her magic sword. ser jaime had given it to her. the thought of failing him as she had failed lord renly made her want to weep. my sword. please, i have to find my sword. the wench wants her sword back, a voice declared. and i want cersei lannister to suck my cock. so what? jaime called it oathkeeper. please. but the voices did not listen, and clarence crabb thundered down on her and swept off her head. brienne spiraled down into a deeper darkness. she dreamed that she was lying in a boat, her head pillowed on someone's lap. there were shadows all around them, hooded men in mail and leather, paddling them across a foggy river with muffled oars. she was drenched in sweat, burning, yet somehow shivering too. the fog was full of faces. beauty, whispered the willows on the bank, but the reeds said, freak, freak. brienne shuddered. stop, she said. someone make them stop. the next time she woke, jeyne was holding a cup of hot soup to her lips. onion broth, brienne thought. she drank as much of it as she could, until a bit of carrot caught in her throat and made her choke. coughing was agony. easy, the girl said. gendry, she wheezed. i have to talk with gendry. he turned back at the river, m'lady. he's gone back to his forge, to willow and the little ones, to keep them safe. no one can keep them safe. she began to cough again. ah, let her choke. save us a rope. one of the shadow men shoved the girl aside. he was clad in rusted rings and a studded belt. at his hip hung longsword and dirk. a yellow greatcloak was plastered to his shoulders, sodden and filthy. from his shoulders rose a steel dog's head, its teeth bared in a snarl. no, brienne moaned. no, you're dead, i killed you. the hound laughed. you got that backwards. it'll be me killing you. i'd do it now, but m'lady wants to see you hanged. hanged. the word sent a jolt of fear through her. she looked at the girl, jeyne. she is too young to be so hard. bread and salt, brienne gasped. the inn... septon meribald fed the children... we broke bread with your sister... guest right don't mean so much as it used to, said the girl. not since m'lady come back from the wedding. some o' them swinging down by the river figured they was guests too. we figured different, said the hound. they wanted beds. we gave 'em trees. we got more trees, though, put in another shadow, one-eyed beneath a rusty pothelm. we always got more trees. when it was time to mount again, they yanked a leather hood down over her face. there were no eyeholes. the leather muffled the sounds around her. the taste of onions lingered on her tongue, sharp as the knowledge of her failure. they mean to hang me. she thought of jaime, of sansa, of her father back on tarth, and was glad for the hood. it helped hide the tears welling in her eyes. from time to time she heard the outlaws talking, but she could not make out their words. after a while she gave herself up to weariness and the slow, steady motion of her horse. this time she dreamed that she was home again, at evenfall. through the tall arched windows of her lord father's hall she could see the sun just going down. i was safe here. i was safe. she was dressed in silk brocade, a quartered gown of blue and red decorated with golden suns and silver crescent moons. on another girl it might have been a pretty gown, but not on her. she was twelve, ungainly and uncomfortable, waiting to meet the young knight her father had arranged for her to marry, a boy six years her senior, sure to be a famous champion one day. she dreaded his arrival. her bosom was too small, her hands and feet too big. her hair kept sticking up, and there was a pimple nestled in the fold beside her nose. he will bring a rose for you, her father promised her, but a rose was no good, a rose could not keep her safe. it was a sword she wanted. oathkeeper. i have to find the girl. i have to find his honor. finally the doors opened, and her betrothed strode into her father's hall. she tried to greet him as she had been instructed, only to have blood come pouring from her mouth. she had bitten her tongue off as she waited. she spat it at the young knight's feet, and saw the disgust on his face. brienne the beauty, he said in a mocking tone. i have seen sows more beautiful than you. he tossed the rose in her face. as he walked away, the griffins on his cloak rippled and blurred and changed to lions. jaime! she wanted to cry. jaime, come back for me! but her tongue lay on the floor by the rose, drowned in blood. brienne woke suddenly, gasping. she did not know where she was. the air was cold and heavy, and smelled of earth and worms and mold. she was lying on a pallet beneath a mound of sheepskins, with rock above her head and roots poking through the walls. the only light came from a tallow candle, smoking in a pool of melted wax. she pushed aside the sheepskins. someone had stripped her of her clothes and armor, she saw. she was clad in a brown woolen shift, thin but freshly washed. her forearm had been splinted and bound up with linen, though. one side of her face felt wet and stiff. when she touched herself, she found some sort of damp poultice covering her cheek and jaw and ear. biter... brienne got to her feet. her legs felt weak as water, her head as light as air. is anyone there? something moved in one of the shadowed alcoves behind the candle; an old grey man clad in rags. the blankets that had covered him slipped to the floor. he sat up and rubbed his eyes. lady brienne? you gave me a fright. i was dreaming. no, she thought, that was me. what place is this? is this a dungeon? a cave. like rats, we must run back to our holes when the dogs come sniffing after us, and there are more dogs every day. he was clad in the ragged remains of an old robe, pink and white. his hair was long and grey and tangled, the loose skin of his cheeks and chin was covered with coarse stubble. are you hungry? could you keep down a cup of milk? perhaps some bread and honey? i want my clothes. my sword. she felt naked without her mail, and she wanted oathkeeper at her side. the way out. show me the way out. the floor of the cave was dirt and stone, rough beneath the soles of her feet. even now she felt light-headed, as if she were floating. the flickering light cast queer shadows. spirits of the slain, she thought, dancing all about me, hiding when i turn to look at them. everywhere she saw holes and cracks and crevices, but there was no way to know which passages led out, which would take her deeper into the cave, and which went nowhere. all were black as pitch. might i feel your brow, my lady? her gaoler's hand was scarred and hard with callus, yet strangely gentle. your fever has broken, he announced, in a voice flavored with the accents of the free cities. well and good. just yesterday your flesh felt as if it were on fire. jeyne feared that we might lose you. jeyne. the tall girl? the very one. though she is not so tall as you, my lady. long jeyne, the men call her. it was she who set your arm and splinted it, as well as any maester. she did what she could for your face as well, washing out the wounds with boiled ale to stop the mortification. even so... a human bite is a filthy thing. that is where the fever came from, i am certain. the grey man touched her bandaged face. we had to cut away some of the flesh. your face will not be pretty, i fear. it has never been pretty. scars, you mean? my lady, that creature chewed off half your cheek. brienne could not help but flinch. every knight has battle scars, ser goodwin had warned her, when she asked him to teach her the sword. is that what you want, child? her old master-at-arms had been talking about sword cuts, though; he could never have anticipated biter's pointed teeth. why set my bones and wash my wounds if you only mean to hang me? why indeed? he glanced at the candle, as if he could no longer bear to look at her. you fought bravely at the inn, they tell me. lem should not have left the crossroads. he was told to stay close, hidden, to come at once if he saw smoke rising from the chimney... but when word reached him that the mad dog of saltpans had been seen making his way north along the green fork, he took the bait. we have been hunting that lot for so long... still, he ought to have known better. as it was, it was half a day before he realized that the mummers had used a stream to hide their tracks and doubled back behind him, and then he lost more time circling around a column of frey knights. if not for you, only corpses might have remained at the inn by the time that lem and his men got back. that was why jeyne dressed your wounds, mayhaps. whatever else you may have done, you won those wounds honorably, in the best of causes. whatever else you may have done. what is it that you think i've done? she said. who are you? we were king's men when we began, the man told her, but king's men must have a king, and we have none. we were brothers too, but now our brotherhood is broken. i do not know who we are, if truth be told, nor where we might be going. i only know the road is dark. the fires have not shown me what lies at its end. i know where it ends. i have seen the corpses in the trees. fires, brienne repeated. all at once she understood. you are the myrish priest. the red wizard. he looked down at his ragged robes, and smiled ruefully. the pink pretender, rather. i am thoros, late of myr, aye... a bad priest and a worse wizard. you ride with the dondarrion. the lightning lord. lightning comes and goes and then is seen no more. so too with men. lord beric's fire has gone out of this world, i fear. a grimmer shadow leads us in his place. the hound? the priest pursed his lips. the hound is dead and buried. i saw him. in the woods. a fever dream, my lady. he said that he would hang me. even dreams can lie. my lady, how long has it been since you have eaten? surely you are famished? she was, she realized. her belly felt hollow. food... food would be welcome, thank you. a meal, then. sit. we will talk more, but first a meal. wait here. thoros lit a taper from the sagging candle, and vanished into a black hole beneath a ledge of rock. brienne found herself alone in the small cave. for how long, though? she prowled the chamber, looking for a weapon. any sort of weapon would have served; a staff, a club, a dagger. she found only rocks. one fit her fist nicely... but she remembered the whispers, and what happened when shagwell tried to pit a stone against a knife. when she heard the priest's returning footsteps, she let the rock fall to the cavern floor and resumed her seat. thoros had bread and cheese and a bowl of stew. i am sorry, he said. the last of the milk had soured, and the honey is all gone. food grows scant. still, this will fill you. the stew was cold and greasy, the bread hard, the cheese harder. brienne had never eaten anything half so good. are my companions here? she asked the priest, as she was spooning up the last of the stew. the septon was set free to go upon his way. there was no harm in him. the others are here, awaiting judgment. judgment? she frowned. podrick payne is just a boy. he says he is a squire. you know how boys will boast. the imp's squire. he has fought in battles, by his own admission. he has even killed, to hear him tell it. a boy, she said again. have pity. my lady, thoros said, i do not doubt that kindness and mercy and forgiveness can still be found somewhere in these seven kingdoms, but do not look for them here. this is a cave, not a temple. when men must live like rats in the dark beneath the earth, they soon run out of pity, as they do of milk and honey. and justice? can that be found in caves? justice. thoros smiled wanly. i remember justice. it had a pleasant taste. justice was what we were about when beric led us, or so we told ourselves. we were king's men, knights, and heroes... but some knights are dark and full of terror, my lady. war makes monsters of us all. are you saying you are monsters? i am saying we are human. you are not the only one with wounds, lady brienne. some of my brothers were good men when this began. some were... less good, shall we say? though there are those who say it does not matter how a man begins, but only how he ends. i suppose it is the same for women. the priest got to his feet. our time together is at an end, i fear. i hear my brothers coming. our lady sends for you. brienne heard their footsteps and saw torchlight flickering in the passage. you told me she had gone to fairmarket. and so she had. she returned whilst we were sleeping. she never sleeps herself. i will not be afraid, she told herself, but it was too late for that. i will not let them see my fear, she promised herself instead. there were four of them, hard men with haggard faces, clad in mail and scale and leather. she recognized one of them; the man with one eye, from her dreams. the biggest of the four wore a stained and tattered yellow cloak. enjoy the food? he asked. i hope so. it's the last food you're ever like to eat. he was brown-haired, bearded, brawny, with a broken nose that had healed badly. i know this man, brienne thought. you are the hound. he grinned. his teeth were awful; crooked, and streaked brown with rot. i suppose i am. seeing as how m'lady went and killed the last one. he turned his head and spat. she remembered lightning flashing, the mud beneath her feet. it was rorge i killed. he took the helm from clegane's grave, and you stole it off his corpse. i didn't hear him objecting. thoros sucked in his breath in dismay. is this true? a dead man's helm? have we fallen that low? the big man scowled at him. it's good steel. there is nothing good about that helm, nor the men who wore it, said the red priest. sandor clegane was a man in torment, and rorge a beast in human skin. i'm not them. then why show the world their face? savage, snarling, twisted... is that who you would be, lem? the sight of it will make my foes afraid. the sight of it makes me afraid. close your eyes, then. the man in the yellow cloak made a sharp gesture. bring the whore. brienne did not resist. there were four of them, and she was weak and wounded, naked beneath the woolen shift. she had to bend her neck to keep from hitting her head as they marched her through the twisting passage. the way ahead rose sharply, turning twice before emerging in a much larger cavern full of outlaws. a fire pit had been dug into the center of the floor, and the air was blue with smoke. men clustered near the flames, warming themselves against the chill of the cave. others stood along the walls or sat cross-legged on straw pallets. there were women too, and even a few children peering out from behind their mothers' skirts. the one face brienne knew belonged to long jeyne heddle. a trestle table had been set up across the cave, in a cleft in the rock. behind it sat a woman all in grey, cloaked and hooded. in her hands was a crown, a bronze circlet ringed by iron swords. she was studying it, her fingers stroking the blades as if to test their sharpness. her eyes glimmered under her hood. grey was the color of the silent sisters, the handmaidens of the stranger. brienne felt a shiver climb her spine. stoneheart. mtady, said the big man. here she is. aye, added the one-eyed man. the kingslayer's whore. she flinched. why would you call me that? if i had a silver stag for every time you said his name, i'd be as rich as your friends the lannisters. that was only... you do not understand... don't we, though? the big man laughed. i think we might. there's a stink of lion about you, lady. that's not so. another of the outlaws stepped forward, a younger man in a greasy sheepskin jerkin. in his hand was oathkeeper. this says it is. his voice was frosted with the accents of the north. he slid the sword from its scabbard and placed it in front of lady stoneheart. in the light from the firepit the red and black ripples in the blade almost seem to move, but the woman in grey had eyes only for the pommel: a golden lion's head, with ruby eyes that shone like two red stars. there is this as well. thoros of myr drew a parchment from his sleeve, and put it down next to the sword. it bears the boy king's seal and says the bearer is about his business. lady stoneheart set the sword aside to read the letter. the sword was given me for a good purpose, said brienne. ser jaime swore an oath to catelyn stark... ... before his friends cut her throat for her, that must have been, said the big man in the yellow cloak. we all know about the kingslayer and his oaths. it is no good, brienne realized. no words of mine will sway them. she plunged ahead despite that. he promised lady catelyn her daughters, but by the time we reached king's landing they were gone. jaime sent me out to seek the lady sansa... ... and if you had found the girl, asked the young northman, what were you to do with her? protect her. take her somewhere safe. the big man laughed. where's that? cersei's dungeon? no. deny it all you want. that sword says you're a liar. are we supposed to believe the lannisters are handing out gold and ruby swords to foes? that the kingslayer meant for you to hide the girl from his own twin? i suppose the paper with the boy king's seal was just in case you needed to wipe your arse? and then there's the company you keep... the big man turned and beckoned, the ranks of outlaws parted, and two more captives were brought forth. the boy was the imp's own squire, m'lady, he said to lady stoneheart. t'other is one of randyll bloody tarly's bloody household knights. hyle hunt had been beaten so badly that his face was swollen almost beyond recognition. he stumbled as they shoved him, and almost fell. podrick caught him by the arm. ser, the boy said miserably, when he saw brienne. my lady, i mean. sorry. you have nothing to be sorry for. brienne turned to lady stoneheart. whatever treachery you think i may have done, my lady, podrick and ser hyle were no part of it. they're lions, said the one-eyed man. that's enough. i say they hang. tarly's hanged a score o' ours, past time we strung up some o' his. ser hyle gave brienne a faint smile. my lady, he said, you should have wed me when i made my offer. now i fear you're doomed to die a maid, and me a poor man. let them go, brienne pleaded. the woman in grey gave no answer. she studied the sword, the parchment, the bronze-and-iron crown. finally she reached up under her jaw and grasped her neck, as if she meant to throttle herself. instead she spoke... her voice was halting, broken, tortured. the sound seemed to come from her throat, part croak, part wheeze, part death rattle. the language of the damned, thought brienne. i don't understand. what did she say? she asked the name of this blade of yours, said the young northman in the sheepskin jerkin. oathkeeper, brienne answered. the woman in grey hissed through her fingers. her eyes were two red pits burning in the shadows. she spoke again. no, she says. call it oathbreaker, she says. it was made for treachery and murder. she names it false friend. like you. to whom have i been false? to her, the northman said. can it be that my lady has forgotten that you once swore her your service? there was only one woman that the maid of tarth had ever sworn to serve. that cannot be, she said. she's dead. death and guest right, muttered long jeyne heddle. they don't mean so much as they used to, neither one. lady stoneheart lowered her hood and unwound the grey wool scarf from her face. her hair was dry and brittle, white as bone. her brow was mottled green and grey, spotted with the brown blooms of decay. the flesh of her face clung in ragged strips from her eyes down to her jaw. some of the rips were crusted with dried blood, but others gaped open to reveal the skull beneath. her face, brienne thought. her face was so strong and handsome, her skin so smooth and soft. lady catelyn? tears filled her eyes. they said... they said that you were dead. she is, said thoros of myr. the freys slashed her throat from ear to ear. when we found her by the river she was three days dead. harwin begged me to give her the kiss of life, but it had been too long. i would not do it, so lord beric put his lips to hers instead, and the flame of life passed from him to her. and... she rose. may the lord of light protect us. she rose. am i dreaming still? brienne wondered. is this another nightmare born from biter's teeth? i never betrayed her. tell her that. i swear it by the seven. i swear it by my sword. the thing that had been catelyn stark took hold of her throat again, fingers pinching at the ghastly long slash in her neck, and choked out more sounds. words are wind, she says, the northman told brienne. she says that you must prove your faith. how? asked brienne. with your sword. oathkeeper, you call it? then keep your oath to her, milady says. what does she want of me? she wants her son alive, or the men who killed him dead, said the big man. she wants to feed the crows, like they did at the red wedding. freys and boltons, aye. we'll give her those, as many as she likes. all she asks from you is jaime lannister. jaime. the name was a knife, twisting in her belly. lady catelyn, i... you do not understand, jaime... he saved me from being raped when the bloody mummers took us, and later he came back for me, he leapt into the bear pit empty-handed... i swear to you, he is not the man he was. he sent me after sansa to keep her safe, he could not have had a part in the red wedding. lady catelyn' s fingers dug deep into her throat, and the words came rattling out, choked and broken, a stream as cold as ice. the northman said, she says that you must choose. take the sword and slay the kingslayer, or be hanged for a betrayer. the sword or the noose, she says. choose, she says. choose. brienne remembered her dream, waiting in her father's hall for the boy she was to marry. in the dream she had bitten off her tongue. my mouth was full of blood. she took a ragged breath and said, i will not make that choice. there was a long silence. then lady stoneheart spoke again. this time brienne understood her words. there were only two. hang them, she croaked. as you command, m'lady, said the big man. they bound brienne's wrists with rope again and led her from the cavern, up a twisting stony path to the surface. it was morning outside, she was surprised to see. shafts of pale dawn light were slanting through the trees. so many trees to choose from, she thought. they will not need to take us far. nor did they. beneath a crooked willow, the outlaws slipped a noose about her neck, jerked it tight, and tossed the other end of the rope over a limb. hyle hunt and podrick payne were given elms. ser hyle was shouting that he would kill jaime lannister, but the hound cuffed him across the face and shut him up. he had donned the helm again. if you got crimes to confess to your gods, this would be the time to say them. podrick has never harmed you. my father will ransom him. tarth is called the sapphire isle. send podrick with my bones to evenfall, and you'll have sapphires, silver, whatever you want. i want my wife and daughter back, said the hound. can your father give me that? if not, he can get buggered. the boy will rot beside you. wolves will gnaw your bones. do you mean to hang her, lem? asked the one-eyed man. or do you figure to talk the bitch to death? the hound snatched the end of the rope from the man holding it. let's see if she can dance, he said, and gave a yank. brienne felt the hemp constricting, digging into her skin, jerking her chin upward. ser hyle was cursing them eloquently, but not the boy. podrick never lifted his eyes, not even when his feet were jerked up off the ground. if this is another dream, it is time for me to awaken. if this is real, it is time for me to die. all she could see was podrick, the noose around his thin neck, his legs twitching. her mouth opened. pod was kicking, choking, dying. brienne sucked the air in desperately, even as the rope was strangling her. nothing had ever hurt so much. she screamed a word. 