she dreamt she sat the iron throne, high above them all. the courtiers were brightly colored mice below. great lords and proud ladies knelt before her. bold young knights laid their swords at her feet and pleaded for her favors, and the queen smiled down at them. until the dwarf appeared as if from nowhere, pointing at her and howling with laughter. the lords and ladies began to chuckle too, hiding their smiles behind their hands. only then did the queen realize she was naked. horrified, she tried to cover herself with her hands. the barbs and blades of the iron throne bit into her flesh as she crouched to hide her shame. blood ran red down her legs, as steel teeth gnawed at her buttocks. when she tried to stand, her foot slipped through a gap in the twisted metal. the more she struggled the more the throne engulfed her, tearing chunks of flesh from her breasts and belly, slicing at her arms and legs until they were slick and red, glistening. and all the while her brother capered below, laughing. his merriment still echoed in her ears when she felt a light touch on her shoulder, and woke suddenly. for half a heartbeat the hand seemed part of the nightmare, and cersei cried out, but it was only senelle. the maid's face was white and frightened. we are not alone, the queen realized. shadows loomed around her bed, tall shapes with chainmail glimmering beneath their cloaks. armed men had no business here. where are my guards? her bedchamber was dark, but for the lantern one of the intruders held on high. i must show no fear. cersei pushed back sleep-tousled hair, and said, what do you want of me? a man stepped into the lantern light, and she saw his cloak was white. jaime? i dreamt of one brother, but the other has come to wake me. your grace. the voice was not her brother's. the lord commander said come get you. his hair curled, as jaime's did, but her brother's hair was beaten gold, like hers, where this man's was black and oily. she stared at him, confused, as he muttered about a privy and a crossbow, and said her father's name. i am dreaming still, cersei thought. i have not woken, nor has my nightmare ended. tyrion will creep out from under the bed soon and begin to laugh at me. but that was folly. her dwarf brother was down in the black cells, condemned to die this very day. she looked down at her hands, turning them over to make certain all her fingers were still there. when she ran a hand down her arm the skin was covered with gooseprickles, but unbroken. there were no cuts on her legs, no gashes on the soles of her feet. a dream, that's all it was, a dream. i drank too much last night, these fears are only humors born of wine. i will be the one laughing, come dusk. my children will be safe, tommen's throne will be secure, and my twisted little valonqar will be short a head and rotting. jocelyn swyft was at her elbow, pressing a cup on her. cersei took a sip: water, mixed with lemon squeezings, so tart she spit it out. she could hear the night wind rattling the shutters, and she saw with a strange sharp clarity. jocelyn was trembling like a leaf, as frightened as senelle. ser osmund kettleblack loomed over her. behind him stood ser boros blount, with a lantern. at the door were lannister guardsmen with gilded lions shining on the crests of their helmets. they looked afraid as well. can it be? the queen wondered. can it be true? she rose, and let senelle slip a bedrobe over her shoulders to hide her nakedness. cersei belted it herself, her fingers stiff and clumsy. my lord father keeps guards about him, night and day, she said. her tongue felt thick. she took another swallow of lemon water and sloshed it round her mouth to freshen her breath. a moth had gotten into the lantern ser boros was holding; she could hear it buzzing and see the shadow of its wings as it beat against the glass. the guards were at their posts, your grace, said osmund kettleblack. we found a hidden door behind the hearth. a secret passage. the lord commander's gone down to see where it goes. jaime? terror seized her, sudden as a storm. jaime should be with the king... the lad's not been harmed. ser jaime sent a dozen men to look in on him. his grace is sleeping peaceful. let him have a sweeter dream than mine, and a kinder waking. who is with the king? ser loras has that honor, if it please you. it did not please her. the tyrells were only stewards that the dragon-kings had upjumped far above their station. their vanity was exceeded only by their ambition. ser loras might be as pretty as a maiden's dream, but underneath his white cloak he was tyre 11 to the bone. for all she knew, this night's foul fruit had been planted and nurtured in highgarden. but that was a suspicion she dare not speak aloud. allow me a moment to dress. ser osmund, you shall accompany me to the tower of the hand. ser boros, roust the gaolers and make certain the dwarf is still in his cell. she would not say his name. he would never have found the courage to lift a hand against father, she told herself, but she had to be certain. as your grace commands. blount surrendered the lantern to ser osmund. cersei was not displeased to see the back of him. father should never have restored him to the white. the man had proved himself a craven. by the time they left maegor's holdfast, the sky had turned a deep cobalt blue, though the stars still shone. all but one, cersei thought. the bright star of the west has fallen, and the nights will be darker now. she paused upon the drawbridge that spanned the dry moat, gazing down at the spikes below. they would not dare lie to me about such a thing. who found him? one of his guards, said ser osmund. lum. he felt a call of nature, and found his lordship in the privy. no, that cannot be. that is not the way a lion dies. the queen felt strangely calm. she remembered the first time she had lost a tooth, when she was just a little girl. it hadn't hurt, but the hole in her mouth felt so odd she could not stop touching it with her tongue. now there is a hole in the world where father stood, and holes want filling. if tywin lannister was truly dead, no one was safe... least of all her son upon his throne. when the lion falls the lesser beasts move in: the jackals and the vultures and the feral dogs. they would try to push her aside, as they always had. she would need to move quickly, as she had when robert died. this might be the work of stannis baratheon, through some catspaw. it could well be the prelude to another attack upon the city. she hoped it was. let him come. i will smash him, just as father did, and this time he will die. stannis did not frighten her, no more than mace tyre 11 did. no one frightened her. she was a daughter of the rock, a lion. there will be no more talk of forcing me to wed again. casterly rock was hers now, and all the power of house lannister. no one would ever disregard her again. even when tommen had no further need of a regent, the lady of casterly rock would remain a power in the land. the rising sun had painted the tower tops a vivid red, but beneath the walls the night still huddled. the outer castle was so hushed that she could have believed all its people dead. they should be. it is not fitting for tywin lannister to die alone. such a man deserves a retinue to attend his needs in hell. four spearmen in red cloaks and lion-crested helms were posted at the door of the tower of the hand. no one is to enter or leave without my permission, she told them. the command came easily to her. my father had steel in his voice as well. within the tower, the smoke from the torches irritated her eyes, but cersei did not weep, no more than her father would have. i am the only true son he ever had. her heels scraped against the stone as she climbed, and she could still hear the moth fluttering wildly inside ser osmund's lantern. die, the queen thought at it, in irritation, fly into the flame and be done with it. two more red-cloaked guardsmen stood atop the steps. red lester muttered a condolence as she passed. the queen's breath was coming fast and short, and she could feel her heart fluttering in her chest. the steps, she told herself, this cursed tower has too many steps. she had half a mind to tear it down. the hall was full of fools speaking in whispers, as if lord tywin were asleep and they were afraid to wake him. guards and servants alike shrank back before her, mouths flapping. she saw their pink gums and waggling tongues, but their words made no more sense than the buzzing of the moth. what are they doing here? how did they know? by rights they should have called her first. she was the queen regent, had they forgotten that? before the hand's bedchamber stood ser meryn trant in his white armor and cloak. the visor of his helm was open, and the bags beneath his eyes made him look still half-asleep. clear these people away, cersei told him. is my father in the privy? they carried him back to his bed, m'lady. ser meryn pushed the door open for her to enter. morning light slashed through the shutters to paint golden bars upon the rushes strewn across the floor of the bedchamber. her uncle kevan was on his knees beside the bed, trying to pray, but he could scarcely get the words out. guardsmen clustered near the hearth. the secret door that ser osmund had spoken of gaped open behind the ashes, no bigger than an oven. a man would need to crawl. but tyrion is only half a man. the thought made her angry. no, the dwarf is locked in a black cell. this could not be his work. stannis, she told herself, stannis was behind it. he still has adherents in the city. him, or the tyre lis... there had always been talk of secret passages within the red keep. maegor the cruel was supposed to have killed the men who built the castle to keep the knowledge of them secret. how many other bedchambers have hidden doors? cersei had a sudden vision of the dwarf crawling out from behind a tapestry in tommen's bedchamber with blade in hand. tommen is well guarded, she told herself. but lord tywin had been well guarded too. for a moment she did not recognize the dead man. he had hair like her father, yes, but this was some other man, surely, a smaller man, and much older. his bedrobe was hiked up around his chest, leaving him naked below the waist. the quarrel had taken him in his groin between his navel and his manhood, and was sunk so deep that only the fletching showed. his pubic hair was stiff with dried blood. more was congealing in his navel. the smell of him made her wrinkle her nose. take the quarrel out of him, she commanded. this is the king's hand! and my father. my lord father. should i scream and tear my hair? they said catelyn stark had clawed her own face to bloody ribbons when the freys slew her precious robb. would you like that, father? she wanted to ask him. or would you want me to be strong? did you weep for your own father? her grandfather had died when she was only a year old, but she knew the story. lord tytos had grown very fat, and his heart burst one day when he was climbing the steps to his mistress. her father was off in king's landing when it happened, serving as the mad king's hand. lord tywin was often away in king's landing when she and jaime were young. if he wept when they brought him word of his father's death, he did it where no one could see the tears. the queen could feel her nails digging into her palms. how could you leave him like this? my father was hand to three kings, as great a man as ever strode the seven kingdoms. the bells must ring for him, as they rang for robert. he must be bathed and dressed as befits his stature, in ermine and cloth-of-gold and crimson silk. where is pycelle? where is pycelle? she turned to the guardsmen. puckens, bring grand maester pycelle. he must see to lord tywin. he's seen him, your grace, said puckens. he came and saw and went, to summon the silent sisters. they sent for me last. the realization made her almost too angry for words. and pycelle runs off to send a message rather than soil his soft, wrinkled hands. the man is useless. find maester ballabar, she commanded. find maester frenken. any of them. puckens and shortear ran to obey. where is my brother? down the tunnel. there's a shaft, with iron rungs set in the stone. ser jaime went to see how deep it goes. he has only one hand, she wanted to shout at them. one of you should have gone. he has no business climbing ladders. the men who murdered father might be down there, waiting for him. her twin had always been too rash, and it would seem that even losing a hand had not taught him caution. she was about to command the guards to go down after him and bring him back when puckens and shortear returned with a grey-haired man between them. your grace, said shortear, this here claims he was a maester. the man bowed low. how may i serve your grace? his face was vaguely familiar, though cersei could not place him. old, but not so old as pycelle. this one has some strength in him still. he was tall, though slightly stooped, with crinkles around his bold blue eyes. his throat is naked. you wear no maester's chain. it was taken from me. my name is qyburn, if it please your grace. i treated your brother's hand. his stump, you mean. she remembered him now. he had come with jaime from harrenhal. i could not save ser jaime's hand, it is true. my arts saved his arm, however, mayhaps his very life. the citadel took my chain, but they could not take my knowledge. you may suffice, she decided. if you fail me you will lose more than a chain, i promise you. remove the quarrel from my father's belly and make him ready for the silent sisters. as my queen commands. qyburn went to the bedside, paused, looked back. and how shall i deal with the girl, your grace? girl? cersei had overlooked the second body. she strode to the bed, flung aside the heap of bloody coverlets, and there she was, naked, cold, and pink... save for her face, which had turned as black as joff s had at his wedding feast. a chain of linked golden hands was half-buried in the flesh of her throat, twisted so tight that it had broken the skin. cersei hissed like an angry cat. what is she doing here? we found her there, your grace, said shortear. it's the imp's whore. as if that explained why she was here. my lord father had no use for whores, she thought. after our mother died he never touched a woman. she gave the guardsman a chilly look. this is not... when lord tywin's father died he returned to casterly rock to find a... a woman of this sort... bedecked in his lady mother's jewels, wearing one of her gowns. he stripped them off her, and all else as well. for a fortnight she was paraded naked through the streets of lannisport, to confess to every man she met that she was a thief and a harlot. that was how lord tywin lannister dealt with whores. he never... this woman was here for some other purpose, not for... perhaps his lordship was questioning the girl about her mistress, qyburn suggested. sansa stark vanished the night the king was murdered, i have heard. that's so. cersei seized on the suggestion eagerly. he was questioning her, to be sure. there can be no doubt. she could see tyrion leering, his mouth twisted into a monkey's grin beneath the ruin of his nose. and what better way to question her than naked, with her legs well spread? the dwarf whispered. that's how i like to question her too. the queen turned away. i will not look at her. suddenly it was too much even to be in the same room as the dead woman. she pushed past qyburn, out into the hall. ser osmund had been joined by his brothers osney and osfryd. there is a dead woman in the hand's bedchamber, cersei told the three kettleblacks. no one is ever to know that she was here. aye, m'lady. ser osney had faint scratches on his cheek where another of tyrion's whores had clawed him. and what shall we do with her? feed her to your dogs. keep her for a bedmate. what do i care? she was never here. i'll have the tongue of any man who dares to say she was. do you understand me? osney and osfryd exchanged a look. aye, your grace. she followed them back inside and watched as they bundled the girl up in her father's bloody blankets. shae, her name was shae. they had last spoken the night before the dwarfs trial by combat, after that smiling dornish snake offered to champion him. shae had been asking about some jewels tyrion had given her, and certain promises cersei might have made, a manse in the city and a knight to marry her. the queen made it plain that the whore would have nothing of her until she told them where sansa stark had gone. you were her maid. do you expect me to believe that you knew nothing of her plans? she had said. shae left in tears. ser osfryd slung the bundled corpse up over his shoulder. i want that chain, cersei said. see that you do not scratch the gold. osfryd nodded and started toward the door. no, not through the yard. she gestured toward the secret passage. there's a shaft down to the dungeons. that way. as ser osfryd went down on one knee before the hearth, the light brightened within, and the queen heard noises. jaime emerged bent over like an old woman, his boots kicking up puffs of soot from lord tywin's last fire. get out of my way, he told the kettleblacks. cersei rushed toward him. did you find them? did you find the killers? how many were there? surely there had been more than one. one man alone could not have killed her father. her twin's face had a haggard look. the shaft goes down to a chamber where half a dozen tunnels meet. they're closed off by iron gates, chained and locked. i need to find keys. he glanced around the bedchamber. whoever did this might still be lurking in the walls. it's a maze back there, and dark. she imagined tyrion creeping between the walls like some monstrous rat. no. you are being silly. the dwarf is in his cell. take hammers to the walls. knock this tower down, if you must. i want them found. whoever did this. i want them killed. jaime hugged her, his good hand pressing against the small of her back. he smelled of ash, but the morning sun was in his hair, giving it a golden glow. she wanted to draw his face to hers for a kiss. later, she told herself, later he will come to me, for comfort. we are his heirs, jaime, she whispered. it will be up to us to finish his work. you must take father's place as hand. you see that now, surely. tommen will need you... he pushed away from her and raised his arm, forcing his stump into her face. a hand without a hand? a bad jape, sister. don't ask me to rule. their uncle heard the rebuff. qyburn as well, and the kettleblacks, wrestling their bundle through the ashes. even the guardsmen heard, puckens and hoke the horseleg and shortear. it will be all over the castle by nightfall. cersei felt the heat rising up her cheeks. rule? i said naught of ruling. i shall rule until my son comes of age. i don't know who i pity more, her brother said. tommen, or the seven kingdoms. she slapped him. jaime's arm rose to catch the blow, cat-quick... but this cat had a cripple's stump in place of a right hand. her fingers left red marks on his cheek. the sound brought their uncle to his feet. your father lies here dead. have the decency to take your quarrel outside. jaime inclined his head in apology. forgive us, uncle. my sister is sick with grief. she forgets herself. she wanted to slap him again for that. i must have been mad to think he could be hand. she would sooner abolish the office. when had a hand ever brought her anything but grief? jon arryn put robert baratheon in her bed, and before he died he'd begun sniffing about her and jaime as well. eddard stark took up right where arryn had left off; his meddling had forced her to rid herself of robert sooner than she would have liked, before she could deal with his pestilential brothers. tyrion sold myrcella to the dornishmen, made one of her sons his hostage, and murdered the other. and when lord tywin returned to king's landing... the next hand will know his place, she promised herself. it would have to be ser kevan. her uncle was tireless, prudent, unfailingly obedient. she could rely on him, as her father had. the hand does not argue with the head. she had a realm to rule, but she would need new men to help her rule it. pycelle was a doddering lickspittle, jaime had lost his courage with his sword hand, and mace tyrell and his cronies redwyne and rowan could not be trusted. for all she knew they might have had a part in this. lord tyrell had to know that he would never rule the seven kingdoms so long as tywin lannister lived. i will need to move carefully with that one. the city was full of his men, and he'd even managed to plant one of his sons in the kingsguard, and meant to plant his daughter in tommen's bed. it still made her furious to think that father had agreed to betroth tommen to margaery tyrell. the girl is twice his age and twice widowed. mace tyrell claimed his daughter was still virgin, but cersei had her doubts. joffrey had been murdered before he could bed the girl, but she had been wed to renly first... a man may prefer the taste of hippocras, yet if you set a tankard of ale before him, he will quaff it quick enough. she must command lord varys to find out what he could. that stopped her where she stood. she had forgotten about varys. he should be here. he is always here. whenever anything of import happened in the red keep, the eunuch appeared as if from nowhere. jaime is here, and uncle kevan, and pycelle has come and gone, but not varys. a cold finger touched her spine. he was part of this. he must have feared that father meant to have his head, so he struck first. lord tywin had never had any love for the simpering master of whisperers. and if any man knew the red keep's secrets, it was surely the master of whisperers. he must have made common cause with lord stannis. they served together on robert's council, after all... cersei strode to the door of the bedchamber, to ser meryn trant. trant, bring me lord varys. squealing and squirming if need be, but unharmed. as your grace commands. but no sooner had one kingsguard departed than another one returned. ser boros blount was red-faced and puffing from his headlong rush up the steps. gone, he panted, when he saw the queen. he sank to one knee. the imp... his cell's open, your grace... no sign of him anywhere... the dream was true. i gave orders, she said. he was to be kept under guard, night and day... blount's chest was heaving. one of the gaolers has gone missing too. rugen, his name was. two other men we found asleep. it was all she could do not to scream. i hope you did not wake them, ser boros. let them sleep. sleep? he looked up, jowly and confused. aye, your grace. how long shall —  forever. see that they sleep forever, ser. i will not suffer guards to sleep on watch. he is in the walls. he killed father as he killed mother, as he killed joff the dwarf would come for her as well, the queen knew, just as the old woman had promised her in the dimness of that tent. i laughed in her face, but she had powers. i saw my future in a drop of blood. my doom. her legs were weak as water. ser boros tried to take her by the arm, but the queen recoiled from his touch. for all she knew he might be one of tyrion's creatures. get away from me, she said. get away! she staggered to a settle. your grace? said blount. shall i fetch a cup of water? it is blood i need, not water. tyrion's blood, the blood of the valonqar. the torches spun around her. cersei closed her eyes, and saw the dwarf grinning at her. no, she thought, no, i was almost rid of you. but his fingers had closed around her neck, and she could feel them beginning to tighten. a cold rain was falling, turning the walls and ramparts of the red keep dark as blood. the queen held the king's hand and led him firmly across the muddy yard to where her litter waited with its escort. uncle jaime said i could ride my horse and throw pennies to the smallfolk, the boy objected. do you want to catch a chill? she would not risk it; tommen had never been as robust as joffrey. your grandfather would want you to look a proper king at his wake. we will not appear at the great sept wet and bedraggled. bad enough i must wear mourning again. black had never been a happy color on her. with her fair skin, it made her look half a corpse herself. cersei had risen an hour before dawn to bathe and fix her hair, and she did not intend to let the rain destroy her efforts. inside the litter, tommen settled back against his pillows and peered out at the falling rain. the gods are weeping for grandfather. lady jocelyn says the raindrops are their tears. jocelyn swyft is a fool. if the gods could weep, they would have wept for your brother. rain is rain. close the curtain before you let any more in. that mantle is sable, would you have it soaked? tommen did as he was bid. his meekness troubled her. a king had to be strong. joffrey would have argued. he was never easy to cow. don't slump so, she told tommen. sit like a king. put your shoulders back and straighten your crown. do you want it to tumble off your head in front of all your lords? no, mother. the boy sat straight and reached up to fix the crown. joff s crown was too big for him. tommen had always inclined to plumpness, but his face seemed thinner now. is he eating well? she must remember to ask the steward. she could not risk tommen growing ill, not with myrcella in the hands of the dornishmen. he will grow into joff s crown in time. until he did, a smaller one might be needed, one that did not threaten to swallow his head. she would take it up with the goldsmiths. the litter made its slow way down aegon's high hill. two kingsguard rode before them, white knights on white horses with white cloaks hanging sodden from their shoulders. behind came fifty lannister guardsmen in gold and crimson. tommen peered through the drapes at the empty streets. i thought there would be more people. when father died, all the people came out to watch us go by. this rain has driven them inside. king's landing had never loved lord tywin. he never wanted love, though. you cannot eat love, nor buy a horse with it, nor warm your halls on a cold night, she heard him tell jaime once, when her brother had been no older than tommen. at the great sept of baelor, that magnificence in marble atop visenya's hill, the little knot of mourners were outnumbered by the gold cloaks that ser addam marbrand had drawn up across the plaza. more will turn out later, the queen told herself as ser meryn trant helped her from the litter. only the highborn and their retinues were to be admitted to the morning service; there would be another in the afternoon for the commons, and the evening prayers were open to all. cersei would need to return for that, so that the smallfolk might see her mourn. the mob must have its show. it was a nuisance. she had offices to fill, a war to win, a realm to rule. her father would have understood that. the high septon met them at the top of the steps. a bent old man with a wispy grey beard, he was so stooped by the weight of his ornate embroidered robes that his eyes were on a level with the queen's breasts... though his crown, an airy confection of cut crystal and spun gold, added a good foot and a half to his height. lord tywin had given him that crown to replace the one that was lost when the mob killed the previous high septon. they had pulled the fat fool from his litter and torn him apart, the day myrcella sailed for dome. that one was a great glutton, and biddable. this one... this high septon was of tyrion's making, cersei recalled suddenly. it was a disquieting thought. the old man's spotted hand looked like a chicken claw as it poked from a sleeve encrusted with golden scrollwork and small crystals. cersei knelt on the wet marble and kissed his fingers, and bid tommen to do the same. what does he know of me? how much did the dwarf tell him? the high septon smiled as he escorted her into the sept. but was it a threatening smile full of unspoken knowledge, or just some vacuous twitch of an old man's wrinkled lips? the queen could not be certain. they made their way through the hall of lamps beneath colored globes of leaded glass, tommen' s hand in hers. trant and kettleblack flanked them, water dripping from their wet cloaks to puddle on the floor. the high septon walked slowly, leaning on a weirwood staff topped by a crystal orb. seven of the most devout attended him, shimmering in cloth-of-silver. tommen wore cloth-of-gold beneath his sable mantle, the queen an old gown of black velvet lined with ermine. there'd been no time to have a new one made, and she could not wear the same dress she had worn for joffrey, nor the one she'd buried robert in. at least i will not be expected to don mourning for tyrion. i shall dress in crimson silk and cloth-of-gold for that, and wear rubies in my hair. the man who brought her the dwarfs head would be raised to lordship, she had proclaimed, no matter how mean and low his birth or station. ravens were carrying her promise to every part of the seven kingdoms, and soon enough word would cross the narrow sea to the nine free cities and the lands beyond. let the imp run to the ends of the earth, he will not escape me. the royal procession passed through the inner doors into the cavernous heart of the great sept, and down a wide aisle, one of seven that met beneath the dome. to right and left, highborn mourners sank to their knees as the king and queen went by. many of her father's bannermen were here, and knights who had fought beside lord tywin in half a hundred battles. the sight of them made her feel more confident. i am not without friends. under the great sept's lofty dome of glass and gold and crystal, lord tywin lannister's body rested upon a stepped marble bier. at its head jaime stood at vigil, his one good hand curled about the hilt of a tall golden greatsword whose point rested on the floor. the hooded cloak he wore was as white as freshly fallen snow, and the scales of his long hauberk were mother-of- pearl chased with gold. lord tywin would have wanted him in lannister gold and crimson, she thought. it always angered him to see jaime all in white. her brother was growing his beard again as well. the stubble covered his jaw and cheeks, and gave his face a rough, uncouth look. he might at least have waited till father's bones were interred beneath the rock. cersei led the king up three short steps, to kneel beside the body. tommen's eyes were filled with tears. weep quietly, she told him, leaning close. you are a king, not a squalling child. your lords are watching you. the boy swiped the tears away with the back of his hand. he had her eyes, emerald green, as large and bright as jaime's eyes had been when he was tommen's age. her brother had been such a pretty boy... but fierce as well, as fierce as joffrey, a true lion cub. the queen put her arm around tommen and kissed his golden curls. he will need me to teach him how to rule and keep him safe from his enemies. some of them stood around them even now, pretending to be friends. the silent sisters had armored lord tywin as if to fight some final battle. he wore his finest plate, heavy steel enameled a deep, dark crimson, with gold inlay on his gauntlets, greaves, and breastplate. his rondels were golden sunbursts; a golden lioness crouched upon each shoulder; a maned lion crested the greathelm beside his head. upon his chest lay a longsword in a gilded scabbard studded with rubies, his hands folded about its hilt in gloves of gilded mail. even in death his face is noble, she thought, although the mouth... the corners of her father's lips curved upward ever so slightly, giving him a look of vague bemusement. that should not be. she blamed pycelle; he should have told the silent sisters that lord tywin lannister never smiled. the man is as useless as nipples on a breastplate. that half smile made lord tywin seem less fearful, somehow. that, and the fact that his eyes were closed. her father's eyes had always been unsettling; pale green, almost luminous, flecked with gold. his eyes could see inside you, could see how weak and worthless and ugly you were down deep. when he looked at you, you knew. unbidden, a memory came to her, of the feast king aerys had thrown when cersei first came to court, a girl as green as summer grass. old merryweather had been nattering about raising the duty on wine when lord rykker said, if we need gold, his grace should sit lord tywin on his chamber pot. aerys and his lickspittles laughed loudly, whilst father stared at rykker over his wine cup. long after the merriment had died that gaze had lingered. rykker turned away, turned back, met father's eyes, then ignored them, drank a tankard of ale, and stalked off red-faced, defeated by a pair of unflinching eyes. lord tywin' s eyes are closed forever now, cersei thought. it is my look they will flinch from now, my frown that they must fear. i am a lion too. it was gloomy within the sept with the sky so grey outside. if the rain ever stopped, the sun would slant down through the hanging crystals to drape the corpse in rainbows. the lord of casterly rock deserved rainbows. he had been a great man. i shall be greater, though. a thousand years from now, when the maesters write about this time, you shall be remembered only as queen cersei' s sire. mother. tommen tugged her sleeve. what smells so bad? my lord father. death. she could smell it too; a faint whisper of decay that made her want to wrinkle her nose. cersei paid it no mind. the seven septons in the silver robes stood behind the bier, beseeching the father above to judge lord tywin justly. when they were done, seventy- seven septas gathered before the altar of the mother and began to sing to her for mercy. tommen was fidgeting by then, and even the queen's knees had begun to ache. she glanced at jaime. her twin stood as if he had been carved from stone, and would not meet her eyes. on the benches, their uncle kevan knelt with his shoulders slumped, his son beside him. lancel looks worse than father. though only seventeen, he might have passed for seventy; grey- faced, gaunt, with hollow cheeks, sunken eyes, and hair as white and brittle as chalk. how can lancel be among the living when tywin lannister is dead? have the gods taken leave of their wits? lord gyles was coughing more than usual and covering his nose with a square of red silk. he can smell it too. grand maester pycelle had his eyes closed. if he has fallen asleep, i swear i will have him whipped. to the right of the bier knelt the tyrells: the lord of highgarden, his hideous mother and vapid wife, his son garlan and his daughter margaery. queen margaery, she reminded herself; joff s widow and tommen's wife-to-be. margaery looked very like her brother, the knight of flowers. the queen wondered if they had other things in common. our little rose has a good many ladies waiting attendance on her, night and day. they were with her now, almost a dozen of them. cersei studied their faces, wondering. who is the most fearful, the most wanton, the hungriest for favor? who has the loosest tongue? she would need to make a point of finding out. it was a relief when the singing finally ended. the smell coming off her father's corpse seemed to have grown stronger. most of the mourners had the decency to pretend that nothing was amiss, but cersei saw two of lady margaery' s cousins wrinkling their little tyrell noses. as she and tommen were walking back down the aisle the queen thought she heard someone mutter privy and chortle, but when she turned her head to see who had spoken a sea of solemn faces gazed at her blankly. they would never have dared make japes about him when he was still alive. he would have turned their bowels to water with a look. back out in the hall of lamps, the mourners buzzed about them thick as flies, eager to shower her with useless condolences. the redwyne twins both kissed her hand, their father her cheeks. hallyne the pyromancer promised her that a flaming hand would burn in the sky above the city on the day her father's bones went west. between coughs, lord gyles told her that he had hired a master stonecarver to make a statue of lord tywin, to stand eternal vigil beside the lion gate. ser lambert turnberry appeared with a patch over his right eye, swearing that he would wear it until he could bring her the head of her dwarf brother. no sooner had the queen escaped the clutches of that fool than she found herself cornered by lady falyse of stokeworth and her husband, ser balman byrch. my lady mother sends her regrets, your grace, falyse burbled at her. lollys has been taken to bed with the child and she felt the need to stay with her. she begs that you forgive her, and said i should ask you... my mother admired your late father above all other men. should my sister have a little boy, it is her wish that we might name him tywin, if... if it please you. cersei stared at her, aghast. your lackwit sister gets herself raped by half of king's landing, and tanda thinks to honor the bastard with my lord father's name? i think not. falyse flinched back as if she'd been slapped, but her husband only stroked his thick blond mustache with a thumb. i told lady tanda as much. we shall find a more, ah... a more fitting name for lollys's bastard, you have my word. see that you do. cersei showed them a shoulder and moved away. tommen had fallen into the clutches of margaery tyrell and her grandmother, she saw. the queen of thorns was so short that for an instant cersei took her for another child. before she could rescue her son from the roses, the press brought her face-to-face with her uncle. when the queen reminded him of their meeting later, ser kevan gave a weary nod and begged leave to withdraw. but lancel lingered, the very picture of a man with one foot in the grave. but is he climbing in or climbing out? cersei forced herself to smile. lancel, i am happy to see you looking so much stronger. maester ballabar brought us such dire reports, we feared for your life. but i would have thought you on your way to darry by now, to take up your lordship. her father had made lancel a lord after the battle of the blackwater, as a sop to his brother kevan. not as yet. there are outlaws in my castle. her cousin's voice was as wispy as the mustache on his upper lip. though his hair had gone white, his mustache fuzz remained a sandy color. cersei had often gazed up at it while the boy was inside her, pumping dutifully away. it looks like a smudge of dirt on his lip. she used to threaten to scrub it off with a little spit. the riverlands have need of a strong hand, my father says. a pity that they're getting yours, she wanted to say. instead she smiled. and you are to be wed as well. a gloomy look passed across the young knight's ravaged face. a frey girl, and not of my choosing. she is not even maiden. a widow, of darry blood. my father says that will help me with the peasants, but the peasants are all dead. he reached for her hand. it is cruel, cersei. your grace knows that i love —   — house lannister, she finished for him. no one can doubt that, lancel. may your wife give you strong sons. best not let her lord grandfather host the wedding, though. i know you will do many noble deeds in darry. lancel nodded, plainly miserable. when it seemed that i might die, my father brought the high septon to pray for me. he is a good man. her cousin's eyes were wet and shiny, a child's eyes in an old man's face. he says the mother spared me for some holy purpose, so i might atone for my sins. cersei wondered how he intended to atone for her. knighting him was a mistake, and bedding him a bigger one. lancel was a weak reed, and she liked his newfound piety not at all; he had been much more amusing when he was trying to be jaime. what has this mewling fool told the high septon? and what will he tell his little frey when they lie together in the dark? if he confessed to bedding cersei, well, she could weather that. men were always lying about women; she would put it down as the braggadocio of a callow boy smitten by her beauty. if he sings of robert and the strongwine, though... atonement is best achieved through prayer, cersei told him. silent prayer. she left him to think about that and girded herself to face the tyrell host. margaery embraced her like a sister, which the queen found presumptuous, but this was not the place to reproach her. lady alerie and the cousins contented themselves with kissing fingers. lady graceford, who was large with child, asked the queen's leave to name it tywin if it were a boy, or lanna if it were a girl. another one? she almost groaned. the realm will drown in tywins. she gave consent as graciously as she could, feigning delight. it was lady merryweather who truly pleased her. your grace, that one said, in her sultry myrish tones, i have sent word to my friends across the narrow sea, asking them to seize the imp at once should he show his ugly face in the free cities. do you have many friends across the water? in myr, many. in lys as well, and tyrosh. men of power. cersei could well believe it. the myrish woman was too beautiful by half; long-legged and full- breasted, with smooth olive skin, ripe lips, huge dark eyes, and thick black hair that always looked as if she'd just come from bed. she even smells of sin, like some exotic lotus. lord merryweather and i wish only to serve your grace and the little king, the woman purred, with a look that was as pregnant as lady graceford. this one is ambitious, and her lord is proud but poor. we must speak again, my lady. taena, is it? you are most kind. i know that we shall be great friends. then the lord of highgarden descended on her. mace tyrell was no more than ten years older than cersei, yet she thought of him as her father's age, not her own. he was not quite so tall as lord tywin had been, but elsewise he was bigger, with a thick chest and a gut grown even thicker. his hair was chestnut-colored, but there were specks of white and grey in his beard. his face was often red. lord tywin was a great man, an extraordinary man, he declared ponderously after he had kissed both her cheeks. we shall never see his like again, i fear. you are looking at his like, fool, cersei thought. it is his daughter standing here before you. but she needed tyrell and the strength of highgarden to keep tommen on his throne, so all she said was, he will be greatly missed. tyrell put a hand upon her shoulder. no man alive is fit to don lord tywin' s armor, that is plain. still, the realm goes on, and must be ruled. if there is aught that i might do to serve in this dark hour, your grace need only ask. if you want to be the king's hand, my lord, have the courage to say it plainly. the queen smiled. let him read into that as much as he likes. surely my lord is needed in the reach? my son willas is an able lad, the man replied, refusing to take her perfectly good hint. his leg may be twisted but he has no want of wits. and garlan will soon take brightwater. between them the reach will be in good hands, if it happens that i am needed elsewhere. the governance of the realm must come first, lord tywin often said. and i am pleased to bring your grace good tidings in that regard. my uncle garth has agreed to serve as master of coin, as your lord father wished. he is making his way to oldtown to take ship. his sons will accompany him. lord tywin mentioned something about finding places for the two of them as well. perhaps in the city watch. the queen's smile had frozen so hard she feared her teeth might crack. garth the gross on the small council and his two bastards in the gold cloaks... do the tyrells think i will just serve the realm up to them on a gilded platter? the arrogance of it took her breath away. garth has served me well as lord seneschal, as he served my father before me, tyrell was going on. littlefinger had a nose for gold, i grant you, but garth —  my lord, cersei broke in, i fear there has been some misunderstanding. i have asked lord gyles rosby to serve as our new master of coin, and he has done me the honor of accepting. mace gaped at her. rosby? that... cougher? but... the matter was agreed, your grace. garth is on his way to oldtown. best send a raven to lord hightower and ask him to make certain your uncle does not take ship. we would hate for garth to brave an autumn sea for nought. she smiled pleasantly. a flush crept up tyrell's thick neck. this... your lord father assured me... he began to sputter. then his mother appeared and slid her arm through his own. it would seem that lord tywin did not share his plans with our regent, i can't imagine why. still, there'tis, no use hectoring her grace. she is quite right, you must write lord leyton before garth boards a ship. you know the sea will sicken him and make his farting worse. lady olenna gave cersei a toothless smile. your council chambers will smell sweeter with lord gyles, though i daresay that coughing would drive me to distraction. we all adore dear old uncle garth, but the man is flatulent, that cannot be gainsaid. i do abhor foul smells. her wrinkled face wrinkled up even more. i caught a whiff of something unpleasant in the holy sept, in truth. mayhaps you smelled it too? no, cersei said coldly. a scent, you say? more like a stink. perhaps you miss your autumn roses. we have kept you here too long. the sooner she rid the court of lady olenna the better. lord tyrell would doubtless dispatch a goodly number of knights to see his mother safely home, and the fewer tyrell swords in the city, the more soundly the queen would sleep. i do long for the fragrances of highgarden, i confess it, said the old lady, but of course i cannot leave until i have seen my sweet margaery wed to your precious little tommen. i await that day eagerly as well, tyrell put in. lord tywin and i were on the point of setting a date, as it happens. perhaps you and i might take up that discussion, your grace. soon. soon will serve, said lady olenna with a sniff. now come along, mace, let her grace get on with her... grief. i will see you dead, old woman, cersei promised herself as the queen of thorns tottered off between her towering guardsmen, a pair of seven- footers that it amused her to call left and right. we'll see how sweet a corpse you make. the old woman was twice as clever as her lord son, that was plain. the queen rescued her son from margaery and her cousins, and made for the doors. outside, the rain had finally stopped. the autumn air smelled sweet and fresh. tommen took his crown off. put that back on, cersei commanded him. it makes my neck hurt, the boy said, but he did as he was bid. will i be married soon? margaery says that as soon as we're wed we can go to highgarden. you are not going to highgarden, but you can ride back to the castle. cersei beckoned to ser meryn trant. bring his grace a mount, and ask lord gyles if he would do me the honor of sharing my litter. things were moving more quickly than she had anticipated; there was no time to be squandered. tommen was happy at the prospect of a ride, and of course lord gyles was honored by her invitation... though when she asked him to be her master of coin, he began coughing so violently that she feared he might die right then and there. but the mother was merciful, and gyles eventually recovered sufficiently to accept, and even began coughing out the names of men he wanted to replace, customs officers and wool factors appointed by littlefinger, even one of the keepers of the keys. name the cow what you will, so long as the milk flows. and should the question arise, you joined the council yesterday. yester — a fit of coughing bent him over. yesterday. to be sure. lord gyles coughed into a square of red silk, as if to hide the blood in his spittle. cersei pretended not to notice. when he dies i will find someone else. perhaps she would recall littlefinger. the queen could not imagine that petyr baelish would be allowed to remain lord protector of the vale for very long, with lysa arryn dead. the vale lords were already stirring, if what pycelle said was true. once they take that wretched boy away from him, lord petyr will come crawling back. your grace? lord gyles coughed, and dabbed his mouth. might i... he coughed again. ... ask who... another series of coughs racked him. ... who will be the king's hand? my uncle, she replied absently. it was a relief to see the gates of the red keep looming large before her. she gave tommen over to the charge of his squires and retired gratefully to her own chambers to rest. no sooner had she eased off her shoes than jocelyn entered timidly to say that qyburn was without and craved audience. send him in, the queen commanded. a ruler gets no rest. qyburn was old, but his hair still had more ash than snow in it, and the laugh lines around his mouth made him look like some little girl's favorite grandfather. a rather shabby grandfather, though. the collar of his robe was frayed, and one sleeve had been torn and badly sewn. i must beg your grace's pardon for my appearance, he said. i have been down in the dungeons making inquiries into the imp's escape, as you commanded. and what have you discovered? the night that lord varys and your brother disappeared, a third man also vanished. yes, the gaoler. what of him? rugen was the man's name. an undergaoler who had charge of the black cells. the chief undergaoler describes him as portly, unshaven, gruff of speech. he held his appointment of the old king, aerys, and came and went as he pleased. the black cells have not oft been occupied in recent years. the other turnkeys were afraid of him, it seems, but none knew much about him. he had no friends, no kin. nor did he drink or frequent brothels. his sleeping cell was damp and dreary, and the straw he slept upon was mildewed. his chamber pot was overflowing. i know all this. jaime had examined rugen's cell, and ser addam's gold cloaks had examined it again. aye, your grace, said qyburn, but did you know that under that stinking chamber pot was a loose stone, which opened on a small hollow? the sort of place where a man might hide valuables that he did not wish to be discovered? valuables? this was new. coin, you mean? she had suspected all along that tyrion had somehow bought this gaoler. beyond a doubt. to be sure, the hole was empty when i found it. no doubt rugen took his ill- gotten treasure with him when he fled. but as i crouched over the hole with my torch, i saw something glitter, so i scratched in the dirt until i dug it out. qyburn opened his palm. a gold coin. gold, yes, but the moment cersei took it she could tell that it was wrong. too small, she thought, too thin. the coin was old and worn. on one side was a king's face in profile, on the other side the imprint of a hand. this is no dragon, she said. no, qyburn agreed. it dates from before the conquest, your grace. the king is garth the twelfth, and the hand is the sigil of house gardener. of highgarden. cersei closed her hand around the coin. what treachery is this? mace tyre 11 had been one of tyrion' s judges, and had called loudly for his death. was that some ploy? could he have been plotting with the imp all the while, conspiring at father's death? with tywin lannister in his grave, lord tyre 11 was an obvious choice to be king's hand, but even so... you will not speak of this with anyone, she commanded. your grace may trust in my discretion. any man who rides with a sellsword company learns to hold his tongue, else he does not keep it long. in my company as well. the queen put the coin away. she would think about it later. what of the other matter? ser gregor. qyburn shrugged. i have examined him, as you commanded. the poison on the viper's spear was manticore venom from the east, i would stake my life on that. pycelle says no. he told my lord father that manticore venom kills the instant it reaches the heart. and so it does. but this venom has been thickened somehow, so as to draw out the mountain's dying. thickened? thickened how? with some other substance? it may be as your grace suggests, though in most cases adulterating a poison only lessens its potency. it may be that the cause is... less natural, let us say. a spell, i think. is this one as big a fool as pycelle? so are you telling me that the mountain is dying of some black sorcery? qyburn ignored the mockery in her voice. he is dying of the venom, but slowly, and in exquisite agony. my efforts to ease his pain have proved as fruitless as pycelle's. ser gregor is overly accustomed to the poppy, i fear. his squire tells me that he is plagued by blinding headaches and oft quaffs the milk of the poppy as lesser men quaff ale. be that as it may, his veins have turned black from head to heel, his water is clouded with pus, and the venom has eaten a hole in his side as large as my fist. it is a wonder that the man is still alive, if truth be told. his size, the queen suggested, frowning. gregor is a very large man. also a very stupid one. too stupid to know when he should die, it seems. she held out her cup, and senelle filled it once again. his screaming frightens tommen. it has even been known to wake me of a night. i would say it is past time we summoned ilyn payne. your grace, said qyburn, mayhaps i might move ser gregor to the dungeons? his screams will not disturb you there, and i will be able to tend to him more freely. tend to him? she laughed. let ser ilyn tend to him. if that is your grace's wish, qyburn said, but this poison... it would be useful to know more about it, would it not? send a knight to slay a knight and an archer to kill an archer, the smallfolk often say. to combat the black arts... he did not finish the thought, but only smiled at her. he is not pycelle, that much is plain. the queen weighed him, wondering. why did the citadel take your chain? the archmaesters are all craven at heart. the grey sheep, marwyn calls them. i was as skilled a healer as ebrose, but aspired to surpass him. for hundreds of years the men of the citadel have opened the bodies of the dead, to study the nature of life. i wished to understand the nature of death, so i opened the bodies of the living. for that crime the grey sheep shamed me and forced me into exile... but i understand the nature of life and death better than any man in oldtown. do you? that intrigued her. very well. the mountain is yours. do what you will with him, but confine your studies to the black cells. when he dies, bring me his head. my father promised it to dome. prince doran would no doubt prefer to kill gregor himself, but we all must suffer disappointments in this life. very good, your grace. qyburn cleared his throat. i am not so well provided as pycelle, however. i must needs equip myself with certain... i shall instruct lord gyles to provide you with gold sufficient for your needs. buy yourself some new robes as well. you look as though you've wandered up from flea bottom. she studied his eyes, wondering how far she dared trust this one. need i say that it will go ill for you if any word of your... labors... should pass beyond these walls? no, your grace. qyburn gave her a reassuring smile. your secrets are safe with me. when he was gone, cersei poured herself a cup of strongwine and drank it by the window, watching the shadows lengthen across the yard and thinking about the coin. gold from the reach. why would an undergaoler in king's landing have gold from the reach, unless he were paid to help bring about father's death? try as she might, she could not seem to bring lord tywin's face to mind without seeing that silly little half smile and remembering the foul smell coming off his corpse. she wondered whether tyrion was somehow behind that as well. it is small and cruel, like him. could tyrion have made pycelle his catspaw? he sent the old man to the black cells, and this rugen had charge of those cells, she remembered. all the strings were tangled up together in ways she did not like. this high septon is tyrion's creature too, cersei recalled suddenly, and father's poor body was in his care from dark till dawn. her uncle arrived promptly at sunset, wearing a quilted doublet of charcoal-colored wool as somber as his face. like all the lannisters, ser kevan was fair-skinned and blond, though at five-and- fifty he had lost most of his hair. no one would ever call him comely. thick of waist, round of shoulder, with a square jutting chin that his close-cropped yellow beard did little to conceal, he reminded her of some old mastiff... but a faithful old mastiff was the very thing that she required. they ate a simple supper of beets and bread and bloody beef with a flagon of dornish red to wash it all down. ser kevan said little and scarce touched his wine cup. he broods too much, she decided. he needs to be put to work to get beyond his grief. she said as much, when the last of the food had been cleared away and the servants had departed. i know how much my father relied on you, uncle. now i must do the same. you need a hand, he said, and jaime has refused you. he is blunt. very well. jaime... i felt so lost with father dead, i scarce knew what i was saying. jaime is gallant, but a bit of a fool, let us be frank. tommen needs a more seasoned man. someone older... mace tyrell is older. her nostrils flared. never. cersei pushed a lock of hair off her brow. the tyrells overreach themselves. you would be a fool to make mace tyrell your hand, ser kevan admitted, but a bigger fool to make him your foe. i've heard what happened in the hall of lamps. mace should have known better than to broach such matters in public, but even so, you were unwise to shame him in front of half the court. better that than suffer another tyrell on the council. his reproach annoyed her. rosby will make an adequate master of coin. you've seen that litter of his, with its carvings and silk draperies. his horses are better dressed than most knights. a man that rich should have no problem finding gold. as for handship... who better to finish my father's work than the brother who shared all his counsels? every man needs someone he can trust. tywin had me, and once your mother. he loved her very much. cersei refused to think about the dead whore in his bed. i know they are together now. so i pray. ser kevan studied her face for a long moment before he replied. you ask much of me, cersei. no more than my father did. i am tired. her uncle reached for his wine cup and took a swallow. i have a wife i have not seen in two years, a dead son to mourn, another son about to marry and assume a lordship. castle darry must be made strong again, its lands protected, its burned fields plowed and planted anew. lancel needs my help. as does tommen. cersei had not expected kevan to require coaxing. he never played coy with father. the realm needs you. the realm. aye. and house lannister. he sipped his wine again. very well. i will remain and serve his grace... very good, she started to say, but ser kevan raised his voice and bulled right over her. ... so long as you name me regent as well as hand and take yourself back to casterly rock. for half a heartbeat cersei could only stare at him. i am the regent, she reminded him. you were. tywin did not intend that you continue in that role. he told me of his plans to send you back to the rock and find a new husband for you. cersei could feel her anger rising. he spoke of such, yes. and i told him it was not my wish to wed again. her uncle was unmoved. if you are resolved against another marriage, i will not force it on you. as to the other, though... you are the lady of casterly rock now. your place is there. how dare you? she wanted to scream. instead, she said, i am also the queen regent. my place is with my son. your father thought not. my father is dead. to my grief, and the woe of all the realm. open your eyes and look about you, cersei. the kingdom is in ruins. tywin might have been able to set matters aright, but... i shall set matters aright! cersei softened her tone. with your help, uncle. if you will serve me as faithfully as you served my father —  you are not your father. and tywin always regarded jaime as his rightful heir. jaime... jaime has taken vows. jaime never thinks, he laughs at everything and everyone and says whatever comes into his head. jaime is a handsome fool. and yet he was your first choice to be the king's hand. what does that make you, cersei? i told you, i was sick with grief, i did not think —  no, ser kevan agreed. which is why you should return to casterly rock and leave the king with those who do. the king is my son! cersei rose to her feet. aye, her uncle said, and from what i saw of joffrey, you are as unfit a mother as you are a ruler. she threw the contents of her wine cup full in his face. ser kevan rose with a ponderous dignity. your grace. wine trickled down his cheeks and dripped from his close-cropped beard. with your leave, might i withdraw? by what right do you presume to give me terms? you are no more than one of my father's household knights. i hold no lands, that is true. but i have certain incomes, and chests of coin set aside. my own father forgot none of his children when he died, and tywin knew how to reward good service. i feed two hundred knights and can double that number if need be. there are freeriders who will follow my banner, and i have the gold to hire sellswords. you would be wise not to take me lightly, your grace... and wiser still not to make of me a foe. are you threatening me? i am counseling you. if you will not yield the regency to me, name me your castellan for casterly rock and make either mathis rowan or randyll tarly the hand of the king. tyre 11 bannermen, both of them. the suggestion left her speechless. is he bought? she wondered. has he taken tyrell gold to betray house lannister? mathis rowan is sensible, prudent, well liked, her uncle went on, oblivious. randyll tarly is the finest soldier in the realm. a poor hand for peacetime, but with tywin dead there's no better man to finish this war. lord tyrell cannot take offense if you choose one of his own bannermen as hand. both tarly and rowan are able men... and loyal. name either one, and you make him yours. you strengthen yourself and weaken highgarden, yet mace will likely thank you for it. he gave a shrug. that is my counsel, take it or no. you may make moon boy your hand for all i care. my brother is dead, woman. i am going to take him home. traitor, she thought. turncloak. she wondered how much mace tyrell had given him. you would abandon your king when he needs you most, she told him. you would abandon tommen. tommen has his mother. ser kevan's green eyes met her own, unblinking. a last drop of wine trembled wet and red beneath his chin, and finally fell. aye, he added softly, after a pause, and his father too, i think. oh, i pray the seven will not let it rain upon the king's wedding, jocelyn swyft said as she laced up the queen's gown. no one wants rain, said cersei. for herself, she wanted sleet and ice, howling winds, thunder to shake the very stones of the red keep. she wanted a storm to match her rage. to jocelyn she said, tighter. cinch it tighter, you simpering little fool. it was the wedding that enraged her, though the slow-witted swyft girl made a safer target. tommen's hold upon the iron throne was not secure enough for her to risk offending highgarden. not so long as stannis baratheon held dragonstone and storm's end, so long as riverrun continued in defiance, so long as ironmen prowled the seas like wolves. so jocelyn must needs eat the meal cersei would sooner have served to margaery tyrell and her hideous wrinkled grandmother. to break her fast the queen sent to the kitchens for two boiled eggs, a loaf of bread, and a pot of honey. but when she cracked the first egg and found a bloody half- formed chick inside, her stomach roiled. take this away and bring me hot spiced wine, she told senelle. the chill in the air was settling in her bones, and she had a long nasty day ahead of her. nor did jaime help her mood when he turned up all in white and still unshaven, to tell her how he meant to keep her son from being poisoned. i will have men in the kitchens watching as each dish is prepared, he said. ser addam's gold cloaks will escort the servants as they bring the food to table, to make certain no tampering takes place along the way. ser boros will be tasting every course before tommen puts a bite into his mouth. and if all that should fail, maester ballabar will be seated in the back of the hall, with purges and antidotes for twenty common poisons on his person. tommen will be safe, i promise you. safe. the word tasted bitter on her tongue. jaime did not understand. no one understood. only melara had been in the tent to hear the old hag's croaking threats, and melara was long dead. tyrion will not kill the same way twice. he is too cunning for that. he could be under the floor even now, listening to every word we say and making plans to open tommen's throat. suppose he was, said jaime. whatever plans he makes, he will still be small and stunted. tommen will be surrounded by the finest knights in westeros. the kingsguard will protect him. cersei glanced at where the sleeve of her brother's white silk tunic had been pinned up over his stump. i remember how well they guarded joffrey, these splendid knights of yours. i want you to remain with tommen all night, is that understood? i will have a guardsman outside his door. she seized his arm. not a guardsman. you. and inside his bedchamber. in case tyrion crawls out of the hearth? he won't. so you say. will you tell me that you found all the hidden tunnels in these walls? they both knew better. i will not have tommen alone with margaery, not for so much as half a heartbeat. they will not be alone. her cousins will be with them. as will you. i command it, in the king's name. cersei had not wanted tommen and his wife to share a bed at all, but the tyrells had insisted. husband and wife should sleep together, the queen of thorns had said, even if they do no more than sleep. his grace's bed is big enough for two, surely. lady alerie had echoed her good-mother. let the children warm each other in the night. it will bring them closer. margaery oft shares her blankets with her cousins. they sing and play games and whisper secrets to each other when the candles are snuffed out. how delightful, cersei had said. let them continue, by all means. in the maidenvault. i am sure her grace knows best, lady olenna had said to lady alerie. she is the boy's own mother, after all, of that we are all sure. and surely we can agree about the wedding night? a man should not sleep apart from his wife on the night of their wedding. it is ill luck for their marriage if they do. someday i will teach you the meaning of ill luck, the queen had vowed. margaery may share tommen' s bedchamber for that one night, she had been forced to say. no longer. your grace is so gracious, the queen of thorns had replied, and everyone had exchanged smiles. cersei' s fingers were digging into jaime's arm hard enough to leave bruises. i need eyes inside that room, she said. to see what? he said. there can be no danger of a consummation. tommen is much too young. and ossifer plumm was much too dead, but that did not stop him fathering a child, did it? her brother looked lost. who was ossifer plumm? was he lord philip's father, or... who? he is near as ignorant as robert. all his wits were in his sword hand. forget plumm, just remember what i told you. swear to me that you will stay by tommen' s side until the sun comes up. as you command, he said, as if her fears were groundless. do you still mean to go ahead and burn the tower of the hand? after the feast. it was the only part of the day's festivities that cersei thought she might enjoy. our lord father was murdered in that tower. i cannot bear to look at it. if the gods are good, the fire may smoke a few rats from the rubble. jaime rolled his eyes. tyrion, you mean. him, and lord varys, and this gaoler. if any of them were hiding in the tower, we would have found them. i've had a small army going at it with picks and hammers. we've knocked through walls and ripped up floors and uncovered half a hundred secret passages. and for all you know there may be half a hundred more. some of the secret crawlways had turned out to be so small that jaime had needed pages and stableboys to explore them. a passage to the black cells had been found, and a stone well that seemed to have no bottom. they had found a chamber full of skulls and yellowed bones, and four sacks of tarnished silver coins from the reign of the first king viserys. they had found a thousand rats as well... but neither tyrion nor varys had been amongst them, and jaime had finally insisted on putting an end to the search. one boy had gotten stuck in a narrow passage and had to be pulled out by his feet, shrieking. another fell down a shaft and broke his legs. and two guardsmen vanished exploring a side tunnel. some of the other guards swore they could hear them calling faintly through the stone, but when jaime's men tore down the wall they found only earth and rubble on the far side. the imp is small and cunning. he may still be in the walls. if he is, the fire will smoke him out. even if tyrion were still hiding in the castle, he won't be in the tower of the hand. we've reduced it to a shell. would that we could do the same to the rest of this foul castle, said cersei. after the war i mean to build a new palace beyond the river. she had dreamed of it the night before last, a magnificent white castle surrounded by woods and gardens, long leagues from the stinks and noise of king's landing. this city is a cesspit. for half a groat i would move the court to lannisport and rule the realm from casterly rock. that would be an even greater folly than burning the tower of the hand. so long as tommen sits the iron throne, the realm sees him as the true king. hide him under the rock and he becomes just another claimant to the throne, no different than stannis. i am aware of that, the queen said sharply. i said that i wanted to move the court to lannisport, not that i would. were you always this slow, or did losing a hand make you stupid? jaime ignored that. if these flames spread beyond the tower, you may end up burning down the castle whether you mean to or not. wildfire is treacherous. lord hallyne has assured me that his pyromancers can control the fire. the guild of alchemists had been brewing fresh wildfire for a fortnight. let all of king's landing see the flames. it will be a lesson to our enemies. now you sound like aerys. her nostrils flared. guard your tongue, ser. i love you too, sweet sister. how could i ever have loved that wretched creature? she wondered after he had gone. he was your twin, your shadow, your other half, another voice whispered. once, perhaps, she thought. no longer. he has become a stranger to me. compared to the magnificence of joffrey's nuptials, the wedding of king tommen was a modest affair, and small. no one wanted another lavish ceremony, least of all the queen, and no one wanted to pay for one, least of all the tyrells. so the young king took margaery tyrell to wife in the red keep's royal sept, with fewer than a hundred guests looking on in place of the thousands who had seen his brother joined to the same woman. the bride was fair and gay and beautiful, the groom still baby- faced and plump. he recited his vows in a high, childish voice, promising his love and devotion to mace tyrell's twice-widowed daughter. margaery wore the same gown she had worn to marry joffrey, an airy confection of sheer ivory silk, myrish lace, and seed pearls. cersei herself was still in black, as a sign of mourning for her murdered firstborn. his widow might be pleased to laugh and drink and dance and put all memory of joff aside, but his mother would not forget him so easily. this is wrong, she thought. it is too soon. a year, two years, that would have been time enough. highgarden should have been content with a betrothal. cersei stared back to where mace tyrell stood between his wife and mother. you forced me into this travesty of a wedding, my lord, and i shall not soon forget it. when it was time for the changing of the cloaks, the bride sank gracefully to her knees and tommen covered her with the heavy cloth-of-gold monstrosity that robert had cloaked cersei in on their own wedding day, with the crowned stag of baratheon worked upon its back in beads of onyx. cersei had wanted to use the fine red silk cloak joffrey had used. it was the cloak my lord father used when he wed my lady mother, she explained to the tyrells, but the queen of thorns had balked her in that as well. that old thing? the crone had said. it looks a bit threadbare to me... and dare i say, unlucky? and wouldn't a stag be more fitting for king robert's trueborn son? in my day a bride donned her husband's colors, not his lady mother's. thanks to stannis and his filthy letter, there were already too many rumors concerning tommen's parentage. cersei dared not fan the fires by insisting that he drape his bride in lannister crimson, so she yielded as gracefully as she could. but the sight of all that gold and onyx still filled her with resentment. the more we give these tyrells, the more they demand of us. when all the vows were spoken, the king and his new queen stepped outside the sept to accept congratulations. westeros has two queens now, and the young one is as beautiful as the old one, boomed lyle crakehall, an oaf of a knight who oft reminded cersei of her late and unlamented husband. she could have slapped him. gyles rosby made to kiss her hand, and only succeeded in coughing on her fingers. lord redwyne kissed her on one cheek and mace tyrell on both. grand maester pycelle told cersei that she had not lost a son, but rather gained a daughter. at least she was spared lady tanda's tearful embraces. none of the stokeworth women had appeared, and for that much the queen was grateful. amongst the last was kevan lannister. i understand you mean to leave us for another wedding, the queen said to him. hardstone has cleared the broken men from darry castle, he replied. lancel's bride awaits us there. will your lady wife be joining you for the nuptials? the riverlands are still too dangerous. vargo hoat's scum remain abroad, and beric dondarrion has been hanging freys. is it true that sandor clegane has joined him? how does he know that? some say. reports are confused. the bird had come last night, from a septry on an island hard by the mouth of the trident. the nearby town of saltpans had been savagely raided by a band of outlaws, and some of the survivors claimed a roaring brute in a hound's head helm was amongst the raiders. supposedly he'd killed a dozen men and raped a girl of twelve. no doubt lancel will be eager to hunt down clegane and lord beric both, to restore the king's peace to the riverlands. ser kevan stared into her eyes for a moment. my son is not the man to deal with sandor clegane. we agree on that much, at least. his father might be. her uncle's mouth grew hard. if my service is not required at the rock... your service was required here. cersei had named her cousin damion lannister her castellan for the rock, and another cousin, ser daven lannister, the warden of the west. insolence has its price, uncle. bring us sandor's head, and i know his grace will be most grateful. joff may have liked the man, but tommen was always afraid of him... with good reason, it would seem. when a dog goes bad, the fault lies with his master, ser kevan said. then he turned and walked away. jaime escorted her to the small hall, where the feast was being readied. i blame you for all this, she whispered as they walked. let them wed, you said. margaery should be mourning joffrey, not marrying his brother. she should be as sick with grief as i am. i do not believe she is a maid. renly had a cock, didn't he? he was robert's brother, he surely had a cock. if that disgusting old crone thinks that i will allow my son to —  you will be rid of lady olenna soon enough, jaime broke in quietly. she's returning to highgarden on the morrow. so she says. cersei did not trust any tyrell promise. she's leaving, he insisted. mace is taking half the tyrell strength to storm's end, and the other half will be going back to the reach with ser garlan to make good his claim on brightwater. a few more days, and the only roses left in king's landing will be margaery and her ladies and a few guardsmen. and ser loras. or have you forgotten your sworn brother? ser loras is a knight of the kingsguard. ser loras is so tyrell he pisses rosewater. he should never have been given a white cloak. he would not have been my choice, i'll grant you. no one troubled to consult me. loras will do well enough, i think. once a man puts on that cloak, it changes him. it certainly changed you, and not for the better. i love you too, sweet sister. he held the door for her, and walked her to the high table and her seat beside the king. margaery was on the other side of tommen, in the place of honor. when she entered, arm in arm with the little king, she made a point of stopping to kiss cersei on the cheeks and throw her arms around her. your grace, the girl said, bold as polished brass, i feel as though i have a second mother now. i pray that we shall be very close, united by our love for your sweet son. i loved both my sons. joffrey is in my prayers as well, said margaery. i loved him dearly, though i never had the chance to know him. liar, the queen thought. if you had loved him even for an instant, you would not have been in such unseemly haste to wed his brother. his crown was all you ever wanted. for half a groat she would have slapped the blushing bride right there upon the dais, in view of half the court. like the service, the wedding feast was modest. lady alerie had made all the arrangements; cersei had not had the stomach to face that daunting task again, after the way joffrey' s wedding had ended. only seven courses were served. butterbumps and moon boy entertained the guests between dishes, and musicians played as they ate. they listened to pipers and fiddlers, a lute and a flute, a high harp. the only singer was some favorite of lady margaery's, a dashing young cock-a- whoop clad all in shades of azure who called himself the blue bard. he sang a few love songs and retired. what a disappointment, lady olenna complained loudly. i was hoping for 'the rains of castamere.' whenever cersei looked at the old crone, the face of maggy the frog seemed to float before her eyes, wrinkled and terrible and wise. all old women look alike, she tried to tell herself, that's all it is. in truth, the bent-back sorceress had looked nothing like the queen of thorns, yet somehow the sight of lady olenna' s nasty little smile was enough to put her back in maggy's tent again. she could still remember the smell of it, redolent with queer eastern spices, and the softness of maggy's gums as she sucked the blood from cersei' s finger. queen you shall be, the old woman had promised, with her lips still wet and red and glistening, until there comes another, younger and more beautiful, to cast you down and take all that you hold dear. cersei glanced past tommen, to where margaery sat laughing with her father. she is pretty enough, she had to admit, but most of that is youth. even peasant girls are pretty at a certain age, when they are still fresh and innocent and unspoiled, and most of them have the same brown hair and brown eyes as she does. only a fool would ever claim she was more beautiful than i. the world was full of fools, however. so was her son's court. her mood was not improved when mace tyrell arose to lead the toasts. he raised a golden goblet high, smiling at his pretty little daughter, and in a booming voice said, to the king and queen! the other sheep all baaaaaaed along with him. the king and queen! they cried, smashing their cups together. the king and queen! she had no choice but to drink along with them, all the time wishing that the guests had but a single face, so she could throw her wine into their eyes and remind them that she was the true queen. the only one of tyrell' s lickspittles who seemed to remember her at all was paxter redwyne, who rose to make his own toast, swaying slightly. to both our queens! he chirruped. to the young queen and the old! cersei drank several cups of wine and pushed her food around a golden plate. jaime ate even less, and seldom deigned to occupy his seat upon the dais. he is as anxious as i am, the queen realized as she watched him prowl the hall, twitching aside the tapestries with his good hand to assure himself that no one was hiding behind them. there were lannister spearmen posted around the building, she knew. ser osmund kettleblack guarded one door, ser meryn trant the other. balon swann stood behind the king's chair, loras tyrell behind the queen's. no swords had been allowed inside the feast save for those the white knights bore. my son is safe, cersei told herself. no harm can come to him, not here, not now. yet every time she looked at tommen, she saw joffrey clawing at his throat. and when the boy began to cough the queen's heart stopped beating for a moment. she knocked aside a serving girl in her haste to reach him. only a little wine that went down the wrong way, margaery tyrell assured her, smiling. she took tommen's hand in her own and kissed his fingers. my little love needs to take smaller sips. see, you scared your lady mother half to death. i'm sorry, mother, tommen said, abashed. it was more than cersei could stand. i cannot let them see me cry, she thought, when she felt the tears welling in her eyes. she walked past ser meryn trant and out into the back passage. alone beneath a tallow candle, she allowed herself a shuddering sob, then another. a woman may weep, but not a queen. your grace? said a voice behind her. do i intrude? it was a woman's voice, flavored with the accents of the east. for an instant she feared that maggy the frog was speaking to her from the grave. but it was only merryweather's wife, the sloe-eyed beauty lord orton had wed during his exile and fetched home with him to longtable. the small hall is so stuffy, cersei heard herself say. the smoke was making my eyes water. and mine, your grace. lady merryweather was as tall as the queen, but dark instead of fair, raven-haired and olive-skinned and younger by a decade. she offered the queen a pale blue handkerchief of silk and lace. i have a son as well. i know that i shall weep rivers on the day he weds. cersei wiped her cheeks, furious that she had let her tears be seen. my thanks, she said stiffly. your grace, i... the myrish woman lowered her voice. there is something you must know. your maid is bought and paid for. she tells lady margaery everything you do. senelle? sudden fury twisted in the queen's belly. was there no one she could trust? you are certain of this? have her followed. margaery never meets with her directly. her cousins are her ravens, they bring her messages. sometimes elinor, sometimes alia, sometimes megga. all of them are as close to margaery as sisters. they meet in the sept and pretend to pray. put your own man in the gallery on the morrow, and he will see senelle whispering to megga beneath the altar of the maiden. if this is true, why tell me? you are one of margaery's companions. why would you betray her? cersei had learned suspicion at her father's knee; this could well be some trap, a lie meant to sow discord between the lion and the rose. longtable may be sworn to highgarden, the woman replied, with a toss of her black hair, but i am of myr, and my loyalty is to my husband and my son. i want all that is best for them. i see. in the closeness of the passage, the queen could smell the other woman's perfume, a musky scent that spoke of moss and earth and wildflowers. under it, she smelled ambition. she gave testimony at tyrion's trial, cersei recalled suddenly. she saw the imp put the poison in joff s cup and was not afraid to say so. i shall look into this, she promised. if what you say is true, you will be rewarded. and if you've lied to me, i'll have your tongue, and your lord husband's lands and gold as well. your grace is kind. and beautiful. lady merryweather smiled. her teeth were white, her lips full and dark. when the queen returned to the small hall, she found her brother pacing restlessly. it was only a gulp of wine that went down the wrong way. though it startled me as well. my belly is such a knot that i cannot eat, she growled at him. the wine tastes of bile. this wedding was a mistake. this wedding was necessary. the boy is safe. fool. no one who wears a crown is ever safe. she looked about the hall. mace tyrell laughed amongst his knights. lords redwyne and rowan were talking furtively. ser kevan sat brooding over his wine at the back of the hall, whilst lancel whispered something to a septon. senelle was moving down the table, filling the cups of the bride's cousins with wine as red as blood. grand maester pycelle had fallen asleep. there is no one i can rely upon, not even jaime, she realized grimly. i will need to sweep them all away and surround the king with mine own people. later, after sweets and nuts and cheese had been served and cleared away, margaery and tommen began the dancing, looking more than a bit ridiculous as they whirled about the floor. the tyrell girl stood a good foot and a half taller than her little husband, and tommen was a clumsy dancer at best, with none of joffrey's easy grace. he did his earnest best, though, and seemed oblivious to the spectacle he was making of himself. and no sooner was maid margaery done with him than her cousins swooped in, one after the other, insisting that his grace must dance with them as well. they will have him stumbling and shuffling like a fool by the time they're done, cersei thought resentfully as she watched. half the court will be laughing at him behind his back. whilst alia, elinor, and megga took their turns with tommen, margaery took a turn around the floor with her father, then another with her brother loras. the knight of flowers was in white silk, with a belt of golden roses about his waist and a jade rose fastening his cloak. they could be twins, cersei thought as she watched them. ser loras was a year older than his sister, but they had the same big brown eyes, the same thick brown hair falling in lazy ringlets to their shoulders, the same smooth unblemished skin. a ripe crop of pimples would teach them some humility. loras was taller and had a few wisps of soft brown fuzz on his face, and margaery had a woman's shape, but elsewise they were more alike than she and jaime. that annoyed her too. her own twin interrupted her musings. would your grace honor her white knight with a dance? she gave him a withering look. and have you fumbling at me with that stump? no. i will let you fill my wine cup for me, though. if you think you can manage it without spilling. a cripple like me? not likely. he moved away and made another circuit of the hall. she had to fill her own cup. cersei refused mace tyrell as well, and later lancel. the others took the hint, and no one else approached her. our fast friends and loyal lords. she could not even trust the westermen, her father's sworn swords and bannermen. not if her own uncle was conspiring with her enemies... margaery was dancing with her cousin alia, megga with ser tallad the tall. the other cousin, elinor, was sharing a cup of wine with the handsome young bastard of driftmark, aurane waters. it was not the first time the queen had made note of waters, a lean young man with grey- green eyes and long silver-gold hair. the first time she had seen him, for half a heartbeat she had almost thought rhaegar targaryen had returned from the ashes. it is his hair, she told herself. he is not half as comely as rhaegar was. his face is too narrow, and he has that cleft in his chin. the velaryons came from old valyrian stock, however, and some had the same silvery hair as the dragonkings of old. tommen returned to his seat to nibble at an applecake. her uncle's place was empty. the queen finally found him in a corner, talking intently with mace tyrell's son garlan. what do they have to talk about? the reach might call ser garlan gallant, but she trusted him no more than margaery or loras. she had not forgotten the gold coin that qyburn had discovered beneath the gaoler's chamber pot. a golden hand from highgarden. and margaery is spying on me. when senelle appeared to fill her wine cup, the queen had to resist an urge to take her by the throat and throttle her. do not presume to smile at me, you treacherous little bitch. you will be begging me for mercy before i'm done with you. i think her grace has had enough wine for one night, she heard her brother jaime say. no, the queen thought. all the wine in the world would not be enough to see me through this wedding. she rose so fast she almost fell. jaime caught her by the arm and steadied her. she wrenched free and clapped her hands together. the music died, the voices stilled. lords and ladies, cersei called out loudly, if you will be so good as to come outside with me, we shall light a candle to celebrate the union of highgarden and casterly rock, and a new age of peace and plenty for our seven kingdoms. dark and forlorn stood the tower of the hand, with only gaping holes where oaken doors and shuttered windows had once been. yet even ruined and slighted, it loomed above the outer ward. as the wedding guests filed out of the small hall, they passed beneath its shadow. when cersei looked up she saw the tower's crenellated battlements gnawing at a hunter's moon, and wondered for a moment how many hands of how many kings had made their home there over the past three centuries. a hundred yards from the tower, she took a breath to stop her head from spinning. lord hallyne! you may commence. hallyne the pyromancer said hmmmmmm and waved the torch he was holding, and the archers on the walls bent their bows and sent a dozen flaming arrows through the gaping windows. the tower went up with a whoosh. in half a heartbeat its interior was alive with light, red, yellow, orange... and green, an ominous dark green, the color of bile and jade and pyromancer's piss. the substance, the alchemists named it, but common folk called it wildfire. fifty pots had been placed inside the tower of the hand, along with logs and casks of pitch and the greater part of the worldly possessions of a dwarf named tyrion lannister. the queen could feel the heat of those green flames. the pyromancers said that only three things burned hotter than their substance: dragonflame, the fires beneath the earth, and the summer sun. some of the ladies gasped when the first flames appeared in the windows, licking up the outer walls like long green tongues. others cheered, and made toasts. it is beautiful, she thought, as beautiful as joffrey, when they laid him in my arms. no man had ever made her feel as good as she had felt when he took her nipple in his mouth to nurse. tommen stared wide-eyed at the fires, as fascinated as he was frightened, until margaery whispered something in his ear that made him laugh. some of the knights began to make wagers on how long it would be before the tower collapsed. lord hallyne stood humming to himself and rocking on his heels. cersei thought of all the king's hands that she had known through the years: owen merryweather, jon connington, qarlton chelsted, jon arryn, eddard stark, her brother tyrion. and her father, lord tywin lannister, her father most of all. all of them are burning now, she told herself, savoring the thought. they are dead and burning, every one, with all their plots and schemes and betrayals. it is my day now. it is my castle and my kingdom. the tower of the hand gave out a sudden groan, so loud that all the conversation stopped abruptly. stone cracked and split, and part of the upper battlements fell away and landed with a crash that shook the hill, sending up a cloud of dust and smoke. as fresh air rushed in through the broken masonry, the fire surged upward. green flames leapt into the sky and whirled around each other. tommen shied away, till margaery took his hand and said, look, the flames are dancing. just as we did, my love. they are. his voice was filled with wonder. mother, look, they're dancing. i see them. lord hallyne, how long will the fires burn? all night, your grace. it makes a pretty candle, i grant you, said lady olenna tyrell, leaning on her cane between left and right. bright enough to see us safe to sleep, i think. old bones grow weary, and these young ones have had enough excitement for one night. it is time the king and queen were put to bed. yes. cersei beckoned to jaime. lord commander, escort his grace and his little queen to their pillows, if you would. as you command. and you as well? no need. cersei felt too alive for sleep. the wildfire was cleansing her, burning away all her rage and fear, filling her with resolve. the flames are so pretty. i want to watch them for a while. jaime hesitated. you should not stay alone. i will not be alone. ser osmund can remain with me and keep me safe. your sworn brother. if it please your grace, said kettleblack. it does. cersei slid her arm through his, and side by side they watched the fire rage. three wretched fools with a leather sack, the queen thought as they sank to their knees before her. the look of them did not encourage her. i suppose there is always a chance. your grace, said qyburn quietly, the small council... ... will await my pleasure. it may be that we can bring them word of a traitor's death. off across the city, the bells of baelor's sept sang their song of mourning. no bells will ring for you, tyrion, cersei thought. i shall dip your head in tar and give your twisted body to the dogs. off your knees, she told the would-be lords. show me what you've brought me. they rose; three ugly men, and ragged. one had a boil on his neck, and none had washed in half a year. the prospect of raising such to lordship amused her. i could seat them next to margaery at feasts. when the chief fool undid the drawstring on the sack and plunged his hand inside, the smell of decay filled her audience chamber like some rank rose. the head he pulled out was grey-green and crawling with maggots. it smells like father. dorcas gasped, and jocelyn covered her mouth and retched. the queen considered her prize, unflinching. you've killed the wrong dwarf, she said at last, grudging every word. we never did, one of the fools dared to say. this is got to be him, ser. a dwarf, see. he's rotted some, is all. he has also grown a new nose, cersei observed. a rather bulbous one, i'd say. tyrion's nose was hacked off in a battle. the three fools exchanged a look. no one told us, said the one with head in hand. this one come walking along as bold as you please, some ugly dwarf, so we thought... he said he were a sparrow, the one with the boil added, and you said he was lying. that was directed at the third man. the queen was angry to think that she had kept her small council waiting for this mummer's farce. you have wasted my time and slain an innocent man. i should have your own heads off. but if she did, the next man might hesitate and let the imp slip the net. she would pile dead dwarfs ten feet high before she let that happen. remove yourselves from my sight. aye, your grace, said the boil. we beg your pardons. do you want the head? asked the man who held it. give it to ser meryn. no, in the sack, you lackwit. yes. ser osmund, see them out. trant removed the head and kettleblack the headsmen, leaving only lady jocelyn' s breakfast as evidence of their visit. clean that up at once, the queen commanded her. this was the third head that had been delivered to her. at least this one was a dwarf. the last had simply been an ugly child. someone will find the dwarf, never fear, ser osmund assured her. and when they do, we'll kill him good. will you? last night cersei had dreamed of the old woman, with her pebbly jowls and croaking voice. maggy the frog, they had called her in lannisport. if father had known what she said to me, he would have had her tongue out. cersei had never told anyone, though, not even jaime. melara said that if we never spoke about her prophecies, we would forget them. she said that a forgotten prophecy couldn't come true. i have informers sniffing after the imp everywhere, your grace, said qyburn. he had garbed himself in something very like maester's robes, but white instead of grey, immaculate as the cloaks of the kingsguard. whorls of gold decorated his hem, sleeves, and stiff high collar, and a golden sash was tied about his waist. oldtown, gulltown, dome, even the free cities. wheresoever he might run, my whisperers will find him. you assume he left king's landing. he could be hiding in baelor's sept for all we know, swinging on the bell ropes to make that awful din. cersei made a sour face and let dorcas help her to her feet. come, my lord. my council awaits. she took qyburn by the arm as they made their way down the stairs. have you attended to that little task i set you? i have, your grace. i am sorry that it took so long. such a large head. it took the beetles many hours to clean the flesh. by way of pardon, i have lined a box of ebony and silver with felt, to make a fitting presentation for the skull. a cloth sack would serve as well. prince doran wants his head. he won't give a fig what sort of box it comes in. the pealing of the bells was louder in the yard. he was only a high septon. how long must we endure this? the ringing was more melodious than the mountain's screams had been, but... qyburn seemed to sense what she was thinking. the bells will stop at sunset, your grace. that will be a great relief. how can you know? knowing is the nature of my service. varys had all of us believing he was irreplaceable. what fools we were. once the queen let it become known that qyburn had taken the eunuch's place, the usual vermin had wasted no time in making themselves known to him, to trade their whispers for a few coins. it was the silver all along, not the spider. qyburn will serve us just as well. she was looking forward to the look on pycelle's face when qyburn took his seat. a knight of the kingsguard was always posted outside the doors of the council chambers when the small council was in session. today it was ser boros blount. ser boros, the queen said pleasantly, you look quite grey this morning. something you ate, perchance? jaime had made him the king's food taster. a tasty task, but shameful for a knight. blount hated it. his sagging jowls quivered as he held the door for them. the councillors quieted as she entered. lord gyles coughed by way of greeting, loud enough to wake pycelle. the others rose, mouthing pleasantries. cersei allowed herself the faintest of smiles. my lords, i know you will forgive my lateness. we are here to serve your grace, said ser harys swyft. it is our pleasure to anticipate your coming. you all know lord qyburn, i am sure. grand maester pycelle did not disappoint her. lord qyburn? he managed, purpling. your grace, this... a maester swears sacred vows, to hold no lands or lordships... your citadel took away his chain, cersei reminded him. if he is not a maester, he cannot be held to a maester's vows. we called the eunuch lord as well, you may recall. pycelle sputtered. this man is... he is unfit... do not presume to speak to me of fitness. not after the stinking mockery you made of my lord father's corpse. your grace cannot think... he raised a spotted hand, as if to ward off a blow. the silent sisters removed lord tywin's bowels and organs, drained his blood... every care was taken... his body was stuffed with salts and fragrant herbs... oh, spare me the disgusting details. i smelled the results of your care. lord qyburn's healing arts saved my brother's life, and i do not doubt that he will serve the king more ably than that simpering eunuch. my lord, you know your fellow councillors? i would be a poor informer if i did not, your grace. qyburn seated himself between orton merryweather and gyles rosby. my councillors. cersei had uprooted every rose, and all those beholden to her uncle and her brothers. in their places were men whose loyalty would be to her. she had even given them new styles, borrowed from the free cities; the queen would have no masters at court beside herself. orton merryweather was her justiciar, gyles rosby her lord treasurer. aurane waters, the dashing young bastard of driftmark, would be her grand admiral. and for her hand, ser harys swyft. soft, bald, and obsequious, swyft had an absurd little white puff of beard where most men had a chin. the blue bantam rooster of his house was worked across the front of his plush yellow doublet in beads of lapis. over that he wore a mantle of blue velvet decorated with a hundred golden hands. ser harys had been thrilled by his appointment, too dim to realize that he was more hostage than hand. his daughter was her uncle's wife, and kevan loved his chinless lady, flat-chested and chicken-legged as she was. so long as she had ser harys in hand, kevan lannister must needs think twice about opposing her. to be sure, a good-father is not the ideal hostage, but better a flimsy shield than none. will the king be joining us? asked orton merryweather. my son is playing with his little queen. for the moment, his idea of kingship is stamping papers with the royal seal. his grace is still too young to comprehend affairs of state. and our valiant lord commander? ser jaime is at his armorer's being fitted for a hand. i know we were all tired of that ugly stump. and i daresay he would find these proceedings as tiresome as tommen. aurane waters chuckled at that. good, cersei thought, the more they laugh, the less he is a threat. let them laugh. do we have wine? we do, your grace. orton merryweather was not a comely man, with his big lumpish nose and shock of unruly reddish-orange hair, but he was never less than courteous. we have dornish red and arbor gold, and a fine sweet hippocras from highgarden. the gold, i think. i find dornish wines as sour as the dornish. as merryweather filled her cup, cersei said, i suppose we had as well begin with them. grand maester pycelle's lips were still quivering, yet somehow he found his tongue. as you command. prince doran has taken his brother's unruly bastards into custody, yet sunspear still seethes. the prince writes that he cannot hope to calm the waters until he receives the justice that was promised him. to be sure. a tiresome creature, this prince. his long wait is almost done. i am sending balon swann to sunspear, to deliver him the head of gregor clegane. ser balon would have another task as well, but that part was best left unsaid. ah. ser harys swyft fumbled at his funny little beard with thumb and forefinger. he is dead then? ser gregor? i would think so, my lord, aurane waters said dryly. i am told that removing the head from the body is often mortal. cersei favored him with a smile; she liked a bit of wit, so long as she was not its target. ser gregor perished of his wounds, just as grand maester pycelle foretold. pycelle harrumphed and eyed qyburn sourly. the spear was poisoned. no man could have saved him. so you said. i recall it well. the queen turned to her hand. what were you speaking of when i arrived, ser harys? sparrows, your grace. septon raynard says there may be as many as two thousand in the city, and more arriving every day. their leaders preach of doom and demon worship... cersei took a taste of wine. very nice. and long past time, wouldn't you agree? what would you call this red god that stannis worships, if not a demon? the faith should oppose such evil. qyburn had reminded her of that, the clever man. our late high septon let too much pass, i fear. age had dimmed his sight and sapped his strength. he was an old done man, your grace. qyburn smiled at pycelle. his passing should not have surprised us. no man can ask for more than to die peacefully in his sleep, full of years. no, said cersei, but we must hope that his successor is more vigorous. my friends upon the other hill tell me that it will most like be torbert or raynard. grand maester pycelle cleared his throat. i have friends among the most devout as well, and they speak of septon ollidor. do not discount this man luceon, qyburn said. last night he feted thirty of the most devout on suckling pig and arbor gold, and by day he hands out hardbread to the poor to prove his piety. aurane waters seemed as bored as cersei by all this prattle about septons. seen up close, his hair was more silvery than gold, and his eyes were grey-green where prince rhaegar's had been purple. even so, the resemblance... she wondered if waters would shave his beard for her. though he was ten years her junior, he wanted her; cersei could see it in the way he looked at her. men had been looking at her that way since her breasts began to bud. because i was so beautiful, they said, but jaime was beautiful as well, and they never looked at him that way. when she was small she would sometimes don her brother's clothing as a lark. she was always startled by how differently men treated her when they thought that she was jaime. even lord tywin himself... pycelle and merryweather were still quibbling about who the new high septon was like to be. one will serve as well as another, the queen announced abruptly, but whosoever dons the crystal crown must pronounce an anathema upon the imp. this last high septon had been conspicuously silent regarding tyrion. as for these pink sparrows, so long as they preach no treason they are the faith's problem, not ours. lord orton and ser harys murmured agreement. gyles rosby's attempt to do the same dissolved into a fit of coughing. cersei turned away in distaste as he was hacking up a gob of bloody phlegm. maester, have you brought the letter from the vale? i have, your grace. pycelle plucked it from his pile of papers and smoothed it out. it is a declaration, rather than a letter. signed at runestone by bronze yohn royce, lady waynwood, lords hunter, redfort, and belmore, and symond templeton, the knight of ninestars. all have affixed their seals. they write —  a deal of rubbish. my lords may read the letter if they wish. royce and these others are massing men below the eyrie. they mean to remove little finger as lord protector of the vale, forcibly if need be. the question is, ought we allow this? does lord baelish seek our help? asked harys swyft. not as yet. in truth, he seems quite unconcerned. his last letter mentions the rebels only briefly before beseeching me to ship him some old tapestries of robert's. ser harys fingered his chin beard. and these lords of the declaration, do they appeal to the king to take a hand? they do not. then... mayhaps we need do nothing. a war in the vale would be most tragic, said pycelle. war? orton merryweather laughed. lord baelish is a most amusing man, but one does not fight a war with witticisms. i doubt there will be bloodshed. and does it matter who is regent for little lord robert, so long as the vale remits its taxes? no, cersei decided. if truth be told, littlefinger had been more use at court. he had a gift for finding gold, and never coughed. lord orton has convinced me. maester pycelle, instruct these lords declarant that no harm must come to petyr. elsewise, the crown is content with whatever dispositions they might make for the governance of the vale during robert arryn's minority. very good, your grace. might we discuss the fleet? asked aurane waters. fewer than a dozen of our ships survived the inferno on the blackwater. we must needs restore our strength at sea. merryweather nodded. strength at sea is most essential. could we make use of the ironmen? asked orton merryweather. the enemy of our enemy? what would the seastone chair want of us as the price of an alliance? they want the north, grand maester pycelle said, which our queen's noble father promised to house bolton. how inconvenient, said merryweather. still, the north is large. the lands could be divided. it need not be a permanent arrangement. bolton might consent, so long as we assure him that our strength will be his once stannis is destroyed. balon greyjoy is dead, i had heard, said ser harys swyft. do we know who rules the isles now? did lord balon have a son? leo? coughed lord gyles. theo? theon greyjoy was raised at winterfell, a ward of eddard stark, qyburn said. he is not like to be a friend of ours. i had heard he was slain, said merryweather. was there only one son? ser harys swyft tugged upon his chin beard. brothers. there were brothers. were there not? varys would have known, cersei thought with irritation. i do not propose to climb in bed with that sorry pack of squids. their turn will come, once we have dealt with stannis. what we require is our own fleet. i propose we build new dromonds, said aurane waters. ten, to start with. where is the coin to come from? asked pycelle. lord gyles took that as an invitation to begin coughing again. he brought up more pink spittle and dabbed it away with a square of red silk. there is no... he managed, before the coughing ate his words. ... no... we do not... ser harys proved swift enough at least to grasp the meaning between the coughs. the crown incomes have never been greater, he objected. ser kevan told me so himself. lord gyles coughed. ... expenses... gold cloaks... cersei had heard his objections before. our lord treasurer is trying to say that we have too many gold cloaks and too little gold. rosby's coughing had begun to vex her. perhaps garth the gross would not have been so ill. though large, the crown incomes are not large enough to keep abreast of robert's debts. accordingly, i have decided to defer our repayment of the sums owed the holy faith and the iron bank of braavos until war's end. the new high septon would doubtless wring his holy hands, and the braavosi would squeak and squawk at her, but what of it? the monies saved will be used for the building of our new fleet. your grace is prudent, said lord merryweather. this is a wise measure. and needed, until the war is done. i concur. and i, said ser harys. your grace, pycelle said in a quavering voice, this will cause more trouble than you know, i fear. the iron bank... ... remains on braavos, far across the sea. they shall have their gold, maester. a lannister pays his debts. the braavosi have a saying too. pycelle's jeweled chain clinked softly. the iron bank will have its due, they say. the iron bank will have its due when i say they will. until such time, the iron bank will wait respectfully. lord waters, commence the building of your dromonds. very good, your grace. ser harys shuffled through some papers. the next matter... we have had a letter from lord frey putting forth some claims... how many lands and honors does that man want? snapped the queen. his mother must have had three teats. my lords may not know, said qyburn, but in the winesinks and pot shops of this city, there are those who suggest that the crown might have been somehow complicit in lord walder's crime. the other councillors stared at him uncertainly. do you refer to the red wedding? asked aurane waters. crime? said ser harys. pycelle cleared his throat noisily. lord gyles coughed. these sparrows are especially outspoken, warned qyburn. the red wedding was an affront to all the laws of gods and men, they say, and those who had a hand in it are damned. cersei was not slow to take his meaning. lord walder must soon face the father's judgment. he is very old. let the sparrows spit upon his memory. it has nought to do with us. no, said ser harys. no, said lord merryweather. no one could think so, said pycelle. lord gyles coughed. a little spittle on lord walder's tomb is not like to disturb the grave worms, qyburn agreed, but it would also be useful if someone were to be punished for the red wedding. a few frey heads would do much to mollify the north. lord walder will never sacrifice his own, said pycelle. no, mused cersei, but his heirs may be less squeamish. lord walder will soon do us the courtesy of dying, we can hope. what better way for the new lord of the crossing to rid himself of inconvenient half brothers, disagreeable cousins, and scheming sisters than by naming them the culprits? whilst we await lord walder's death, there is another matter, said aurane waters. the golden company has broken its contract with myr. around the docks i've heard men say that lord stannis has hired them and is bringing them across the sea. what would he pay them with? asked merryweather. snow? they are called the golden company. how much gold does stannis have? little enough, cersei assured him. lord qyburn has spoken to the crew of that myrish galley in the bay. they claim the golden company is making for volantis. if they mean to cross to westeros, they are marching in the wrong direction. perhaps they grew weary of fighting on the losing side, suggested lord merryweather. there is that as well, agreed the queen. only a blind man could fail to see our war is all but won. lord tyrell has storm's end invested. riverrun is besieged by the freys and my cousin daven, our new warden of the west. lord redwyne's ships have passed through the straits of tarth and are moving swiftly up the coast. only a few fishing boats remain on dragonstone to oppose redwyne's landing. the castle may hold for some time, but once we have the port we can cut the garrison off from the sea. then only stannis himself will remain to vex us. if lord janos can be believed, he is trying to make common cause with the wildlings, warned grand maester pycelle. savages in skins, declared lord merryweather. lord stannis must be desperate indeed, to seek such allies. desperate and foolish, the queen agreed. the northmen hate the wildlings. roose bolton should have no trouble winning them to our cause. a few have already joined up with his bastard son to help him clear the wretched ironmen from moat cailin and clear the way for lord bolton to return. umber, ryswell... i forget the other names. even white harbor is on the point of joining us. its lord has agreed to marry both his granddaughters to our friends of frey and open his port to our ships. i thought we had no ships, ser harys said, confused. wyman manderly was a loyal bannerman to eddard stark, said grand maester pycelle. can such a man be trusted? no one can be trusted. he's a fat old man, and frightened. however, he is proving stubborn on one point. he insists that he will not bend the knee until his heir has been returned to him. do we have this heir? asked ser harys. he will be at harrenhal, if he is still alive. gregor clegane took him captive. the mountain had not always been gentle with his prisoners, even those worth a goodly ransom. if he is dead, i suppose we will need to send lord manderly the heads of those who killed him, with our most sincere apologies. if one head was enough to appease a prince of dome, a bag of them should be more than adequate for a fat northman wrapped in sealskins. will not lord stannis seek to win the allegiance of white harbor as well? asked grand maester pycelle. oh, he has tried. lord manderly has sent his letters on to us and replied with evasions. stannis demands white harbor's swords and silver, for which he offers... well, nothing. one day she must light a candle to the stranger for carrying renly off and leaving stannis. if it had been the other way around, her life would have been harder. just this morning there was another bird. stannis has sent his onion smuggler to treat with white harbor on his behalf. manderly has clapped the wretch inside a cell. he asks us what he should do with him. send him here, that we might question him, suggested lord merryweather. the man might know much of value. let him die, said qyburn. his death will be a lesson to the north, to show them what becomes of traitors. i quite agree, the queen said. i have instructed lord manderly to have his head off forthwith. that should put an end to any chance of white harbor supporting stannis. stannis will need another hand, observed aurane waters with a chuckle. the turnip knight, perhaps? a turnip knight? said ser harys swyft, confused. who is this man? i have not heard of him. waters did not reply, except to roll his eyes. what if lord manderly should refuse? asked merryweather. he dare not. the onion knight's head is the coin he'll need to buy his son's life. cersei smiled. the fat old fool may have been loyal to the starks in his own way, but with the wolves of winterfell extinguished —  your grace has forgotten the lady sansa, said pycelle. the queen bristled. i most certainly have not forgotten that little she- wolf. she refused to say the girl's name. i ought to have shown her to the black cells as the daughter of a traitor, but instead i made her part of mine own household. she shared my hearth and hall, played with my own children. i fed her, dressed her, tried to make her a little less ignorant about the world, and how did she repay me for my kindness? she helped murder my son. when we find the imp, we will find the lady sansa too. she is not dead... but before i am done with her, i promise you, she will be singing to the stranger, begging for his kiss. an awkward silence followed. have they all swallowed their tongues? cersei thought, with irritation. it was enough to make her wonder why she bothered with a council. in any case, the queen went on, lord eddard's younger daughter is with lord bolton, and will be wed to his son ramsay as soon as moat cailin has fallen. so long as the girl played her role well enough to cement their claim to winterfell, neither of the boltons would much care that she was actually some steward's whelp tricked up by little finger. if the north must have a stark, we'll give them one. she let lord merryweather fill her cup once again. another problem has arisen on the wall, however. the brothers of the night's watch have taken leave of their wits and chosen ned stark's bastard son to be their lord commander. snow, the boy is called, pycelle said unhelpfully. i glimpsed him once at winterfell, the queen said, though the starks did their best to hide him. he looks very like his father. her husband's by-blows had his look as well, though at least robert had the grace to keep them out of sight. once, after that sorry business with the cat, he had made some noises about bringing some baseborn daughter of his to court. do as you please, she'd told him, but you may find that the city is not a healthy place for a growing girl. the bruise those words had won her had been hard to hide from jaime, but they heard no more about the bastard girl. catelyn tully was a mouse, or she would have smothered this jon snow in his cradle. instead, she's left the filthy task to me. snow shares lord eddard's taste for treason too, she said. the father would have handed the realm to stannis. the son has given him lands and castles. the night's watch is sworn to take no part in the wars of the seven kingdoms, pycelle reminded them. for thousands of years the black brothers have upheld that tradition. until now, said cersei. the bastard boy has written us to avow that the night's watch takes no side, but his actions give the lie to his words. he has given stannis food and shelter, yet has the insolence to plead with us for arms and men. an outrage, declared lord merryweather. we cannot allow the night's watch to join its strength to that of lord stannis. we must declare this snow a traitor and a rebel, agreed ser harys swyft. the black brothers must remove him. grand maester pycelle nodded ponderously. i propose that we inform castle black that no more men will be sent to them until such time as snow is gone. our new dromonds will need oarsmen, said aurane waters. let us instruct the lords to send their poachers and thieves to me henceforth, instead of to the wall. qyburn leaned forward with a smile. the night's watch defends us all from snarks and grumkins. my lords, i say that we must help the brave black brothers. cersei gave him a sharp look. what are you saying? this, qyburn said. for years now, the night's watch has begged for men. lord stannis has answered their plea. can king tommen do less? his grace should send the wall a hundred men. to take the black, ostensibly, but in truth... ... to remove jon snow from the command, cersei finished, delighted. i knew i was right to want him on my council. that is just what we shall do. she laughed. if this bastard boy is truly his father's son, he will not suspect a thing. perhaps he will even thank me, before the blade slides between his ribs. it will need to be done carefully, to be sure. leave the rest to me, my lords. this was how an enemy should be dealt with: with a dagger, not a declaration. we have done good work today, my lords. i thank you. is there aught else? one last thing, your grace, said aurane waters, in an apologetic tone. i hesitate to take up the council's time with trifles, but there has been some queer talk heard along the docks of late. sailors from the east. they speak of dragons... ... and manticores, no doubt, and bearded snarks? cersei chuckled. come back to me when you hear talk of dwarfs, my lord. she stood, to signal that the meeting was at an end. a blustery autumn wind was blowing when cersei left the council chambers, and bells of blessed baelor still sang their song of mourning off across the city. in the yard twoscore knights were hammering each other with sword and shield, adding to the din. ser boros blount escorted the queen back to her apartments, where she found lady merryweather chuckling with jocelyn and dorcas. what is it you all find so amusing? the redwyne twins, said taena. both of them have fallen in love with lady margaery. they used to fight over which would be the next lord of the arbor. now both of them want to join the kingsguard, just to be near the little queen. the redwynes have always had more freckles than wits. it was a useful thing to know, though. if horror or slobber were to be found abed with margaery... cersei wondered if the little queen liked freckles. dorcas, fetch me ser osney kettleblack. dorcas blushed. as you command. when the girl was gone, taena merryweather gave the queen a quizzical look. why did she turn so red? love. it was cersei's turn to laugh. she fancies our ser osney. he was the youngest kettleblack, the clean-shaved one. though he had the same black hair, hooked nose, and easy smile as his brother osmund, one cheek bore three long scratches, courtesy of one of tyrion's whores. she likes his scars, i think. lady merryweather's dark eyes shone with mischief. just so. scars make a man look dangerous, and danger is exciting. you shock me, my lady, the queen said, teasing. if danger excites you so, why wed lord orton? we all love him, it is true, but still... petyr had once remarked that the horn of plenty that adorned house merryweather's arms suited lord orton admirably, since he had carrot- colored hair, a nose as bulbous as a beetroot, and pease porridge for wits. taena laughed. my lord is more bountiful than dangerous, this is so. yet... i hope your grace will not think the less of me, but i did not come a maid entire to orton's bed. you are all whores in the free cities, aren't you? that was good to know; one day, she might be able to make use of it. and pray, who was this lover who was so... full of danger? taena's olive skin turned even darker as she blushed. oh, i should not have spoken. your grace will keep my secret, yes? men have scars, women mysteries. cersei kissed her cheek. i will have his name out of you soon enough. when dorcas returned with ser osney kettleblack, the queen dismissed her ladies. come sit with me by the window, ser osney. will you take a cup of wine? she poured for them herself. your cloak is threadbare. i have a mind to put you in a new one. what, a white one? who's died? no one, as yet, the queen said. is that your wish, to join your brother osmund in our kingsguard? i'd rather be the queen's guard, if it please your grace. when osney grinned, the scars on his cheek turned bright red. cersei's fingers traced their path across his cheek. you have a bold tongue, ser. you will make me forget myself again. good. ser osney caught her hand and kissed her fingers roughly. my sweet queen. you are a wicked man, the queen whispered, and no true knight, i think. she let him touch her breasts through the silk of her gown. enough. it isn't. i want you. you've had me. only once. he grabbed her left breast again and gave it a clumsy squeeze that reminded her of robert. one good night for one good knight. you did me valiant service, and you had your reward. cersei walked her fingers up his laces. she could feel him stiffening through his breeches. was that a new horse you were riding in the yard yestermorn? the black stallion? aye. a gift from my brother osfryd. midnight, i call him. how wonderfully original. a fine mount for a battle. for pleasure, though, there is nothing to compare to a gallop on a spirited young filly. she gave him a smile and a squeeze. tell me true. do you think our little queen is pretty? ser osney drew back, wary. i suppose. for a girl. i'd sooner have a woman. why not both? she whispered. pluck the little rose for me, and you will not find me to be ungrateful. the little... margaery, you mean? ser osney's ardor was wilting in his breeches. she's the king's wife. wasn't there some kingsguard who lost his head for bedding the king's wife? ages ago. she was his king's mistress, not his wife, and his head was the only thing he did not lose. aegon dismembered him piece by piece, and made the woman watch. cersei did not want osney dwelling on that ancient unpleasantness, however. tommen is not aegon the unworthy. have no fear, he will do as i bid him. i mean for margaery to lose her head, not you. that gave him pause. her maidenhead, you mean? that too. assuming she has still one. she traced his scars again. unless you think margaery would prove unresponsive to your... charms? osney gave her a wounded look. she likes me well enough. them cousins of hers are always teasing with me about my nose. how big it is, and all. the last time megga did that, margaery told them to stop and said i had a lovely face. there you are, then. there i am, the man agreed, in a doubtful tone, but where am i going to be if she... if i... after we...? ... do the deed? cersei gave him a barbed smile. lying with a queen is treason. tommen would have no choice but to send you to the wall. the wall? he said with dismay. it was all she could do not to laugh. no, best not. men hate being laughed at. a black cloak would go well with your eyes, and that black hair of yours. no one returns from the wall. you will. all you need to do is kill a boy. what boy? a bastard boy in league with stannis. he's young and green, and you'll have a hundred men. kettleblack was afraid, she could smell it on him, but he was too proud to own up to that fear. men are all alike. i've killed more boys than i can count, he insisted. once this boy is dead, i'd get my pardon from the king? that, and a lordship. unless snow's brothers hang you first. a queen must have a consort. one who knows no fear. lord kettleblack? a slow smile spread across his face, and his scars flamed red. aye, i like the sound o' that. a lordly lord... ... and fit to bed a queen. he frowned. the wall is cold. and i am warm. cersei put her arms about his neck. bed a girl and kill a boy and i am yours. do you have the courage? osney thought a moment before he nodded. i am your man. you are, ser. she kissed him, and let him have a little taste of tongue before she broke away. enough for now. the rest must wait. will you dream of me tonight? aye. his voice was hoarse. and when you're abed with our maid margaery? she asked him, teasing. when you're in her, will you dream of me then? i will, swore osney kettleblack. good. after he was gone, cersei summoned jocelyn to brush her hair out whilst she slipped off her shoes and stretched like a cat. i was made for this, she told herself. it was the sheer elegance of it that pleased her most. even mace tyre 11 would not dare defend his darling daughter if she was caught in the act with the likes of osney kettleblack, and neither stannis baratheon nor jon snow would have cause to wonder why osney was being sent to the wall. she would see to it that ser osmund was the one to discover his brother with the little queen; that way the loyalty of the other two kettleb lacks need not be impugned. if father could only see me now, he would not be so quick to speak of marrying me off again. a pity he's so dead. him and robert, jon arryn, ned stark, renly baratheon, all dead. only tyrion remains, and not for long. that night the queen summoned lady merryweather to her bedchamber. will you take a cup of wine? she asked her. a small one. the myrish woman laughed. a big one. on the morrow i want you to pay a call on my good-daughter, cersei said as dorcas was dressing her for bed. lady margaery is always happy to see me. i know. the queen did not fail to note the style that taena used when referring to tommen's little wife. tell her i've sent seven beeswax candles to the baelor's sept in memory of our dear high septon. taena laughed. if so, she will send seven-and-seventy candles of her own, so as not to be outmourned. i will be very cross if she does not, the queen said, smiling. tell her also that she has a secret admirer, a knight so smitten with her beauty that he cannot sleep at night. might i ask your grace which knight? mischief sparkled in taena's big dark eyes. could it be ser osney? it could be, the queen said, but do not offer up that name freely. make her worm it out of you. will you do that? if it please you. that is all i wish, your grace. outside a cold wind was rising. they stayed up late into the morning, drinking arbor gold and telling one another tales. taena got quite drunk and cersei pried the name of her secret lover from her. he was a myrish sea captain, half a pirate, with black hair to the shoulders and a scar that ran across his face from chin to ear. a hundred times i told him no, and he said yes, the other woman told her, until finally i was saying yes as well. he was not the sort of man to be denied. i know the sort, the queen said with a wry smile. has your grace ever known a man like that, i wonder? robert, she lied, thinking of jaime. yet when she closed her eyes, it was the other brother that she dreamt of, and the three wretched fools with whom she had begun her day. in the dream it was tyrion's head they brought her in their sack. she had it bronzed, and kept it in her chamber pot. the king was pouting. i want to sit on the iron throne, he told her. you always let joffsit up there. joffrey was twelve. but i'm the king. the throne belongs to me. who told you that? cersei took a deep breath, so dorcas could lace her up more tightly. she was a big girl, much stronger than senelle, though clumsier as well. tommen's face turned red. no one told me. no one? is that what you call your lady wife? the queen could smell margaery tyrell all over this rebellion. if you lie to me, i will have no choice but to send for pate and have him beaten till he bleeds. pate was tommen's whipping boy, as he had been joffrey's. is that what you want? no, the king muttered sullenly. who told you? he shuffled his feet. lady margaery. he knew better than to call her queen in his mother's hearing. that is better. tommen, i have grave matters to decide, matters that you are far too young to understand. i do not need a silly little boy fidgeting on the throne behind me and distracting me with childish questions. i suppose margaery thinks you ought to be at my council meetings too? yes, he admitted. she says i have to learn to be king. when you are older, you can attend as many councils as you wish, cersei told him. i promise you, you will soon grow sick of them. robert used to doze through the sessions. when he troubled to attend at all. he preferred to hunt and hawk, and leave the tedium to old lord arryn. do you remember him? he died of a bellyache. so he did, poor man. as you are so eager to learn, perhaps you should learn the names of all the kings of westeros and the hands who served them. you may recite them to me on the morrow. yes, mother, he said meekly. that's my good boy. the rule was hers; cersei did not mean to give it up until tommen came of age. i waited, so can he. i waited half my life. she had played the dutiful daughter, the blushing bride, the pliant wife. she had suffered robert's drunken groping, jaime's jealousy, renly's mockery, varys with his titters, stannis endlessly grinding his teeth. she had contended with jon arryn, ned stark, and her vile, treacherous, murderous dwarf brother, all the while promising herself that one day it would be her turn. if margaery tyrell thinks to cheat me of my hour in the sun, she had bloody well think again. still, it was an ill way to break her fast, and cersei' s day did not soon improve. she spent the rest of the morning with lord gyles and his ledger books, listening to him cough about stars and stags and dragons. after him lord waters arrived, to report that the first three dromonds were nearing completion and beg for more gold to finish them in the splendor they deserved. the queen was pleased to grant him his request. moon boy capered as she took her midday meal with members of the merchant guilds and listened to them complain about sparrows wandering the streets and sleeping in the squares. i may need to use the gold cloaks to chase these sparrows from the city, she was thinking, when pycelle intruded. the grand maester had been especially querulous in council of late. at the last session he had complained bitterly about the men that aurane waters had chosen to captain her new dromonds. waters meant to give the ships to younger men, whilst pycelle argued for experience, insisting that the commands should go to those captains who had survived the fires of the blackwater. seasoned men of proven loyalty, he called them. cersei called them old, and sided with lord waters. the only thing these captains proved was that they know how to swim, she'd said. no mother should outlive her children, and no captain should outlive his ship. pycelle had taken the rebuke with ill grace. he seemed less choleric today, and even managed a sort of tremulous smile. your grace, glad tidings, he announced. wyman manderly has done as you commanded, and beheaded lord stannis's onion knight. we know this for a certainty? the man's head and hands have been mounted above the walls of white harbor. lord wyman avows this, and the freys confirm. they have seen the head there, with an onion in its mouth. and the hands, one marked by his shortened fingers. very good, said cersei. send a bird to manderly and inform him that his son will be returned forthwith, now that he has demonstrated his loyalty. white harbor would soon return to the king's peace, and roose bolton and his bastard son were closing in on moat cailin from south and north. once the moat was theirs, they would join their strength and clear the ironmen out of torrhen's square and deepwood motte as well. that should win them the allegiance of ned stark's remaining bannermen when the time came to march against lord stannis. to the south, meanwhile, mace tyrell had raised a city of tents outside storm's end and had two dozen mangonels flinging stones against the castle's massive walls, thus far to small effect. lord tyrell the warrior, the queen mused. his sigil ought to be a fat man sitting on his arse. that afternoon the dour braavosi envoy turned up for his audience. cersei had put him off for a fortnight and would have gladly put him off another year, but lord gyles claimed he could no longer deal with the man... though the queen was starting to wonder if gyles was capable of doing anything but coughing. noho dimittis, the braavosi named himself. an irritating name for an irritating man. his voice was irritating too. cersei shifted in her seat as he went on, wondering how long she must endure his hectoring. behind her loomed the iron throne, its barbs and blades throwing twisted shadows across the floor. only the king or his hand could sit upon the throne itself. cersei sat by its foot, in a seat of gilded wood piled with crimson cushions. when the braavosi paused for breath, she saw her chance. this is more properly a matter for our lord treasurer. that answer did not please the noble noho, it would seem. i have spoken with lord gyles six times. he coughs at me and makes excuses, your grace, but the gold is not forthcoming. speak to him a seventh time, cersei suggested pleasantly. the number seven is sacred to our gods. it pleases your grace to make a jest, i see. when i make a jest i smile. do you see me smiling? do you hear laughter? i assure you, when i make a jest, men laugh. king robert—  — is dead, she said sharply. the iron bank will have its gold when this rebellion has been put down. he had the insolence to scowl at her. your grace —  this audience is at an end. cersei had suffered quite enough for one day. ser meryn, show the noble noho dimittis to the door. ser osmund, you may escort me back to my apartments. her guests would soon arrive, and she had to bathe and change. supper promised to be a tedious affair as well. it was hard work to rule a kingdom, much less seven of them. ser osmund kettleblack fell in beside her on the steps, tall and lean in his kingsguard whites. when cersei was certain they were quite alone, she slid her arm through his. how is your little brother faring, pray? ser osmund looked uneasy. ah... well enough, only... only? the queen let a hint of anger edge her words. i must confess, i am running short of patience with dear osney. it is past time he broke in that little filly. i named him tommen's sworn shield so he could spend part of every day in margaery's company. he should have plucked the rose by now. is the little queen blind to his charms? his charms is fine. he's a kettleblack, ain't he? begging your pardon. ser osmund ran his fingers through his oily black hair. it's her that's the trouble. and why is that? the queen had begun to nurse doubts about ser osney. perhaps another man would have been more to margaery's liking. aurane waters, with that silvery hair, or a big strapping fellow like ser tallad. would the maid prefer someone else? does your brother's face displease her? she likes his face. she touched his scars two days ago, he told me.'what woman gave you these?' she asked. osney never said it was a woman, but she knew. might be someone told her. she's always touching him when they talk, he says. straightening the clasp on his cloak, brushing back his hair, and like that. one time at the archery butts she had him show her how to hold a longbow, so he had to put his arms around her. osney tells her bawdy jests, and she laughs and comes back with ones that are even bawdier. no, she wants him, that's plain, but... but? cersei prompted. they are never alone. the king's with them most all the time, and when he's not, there's someone else. two of her ladies share her bed, different ones every night. two others bring her breakfast and help her dress. she prays with her septa, reads with her cousin elinor, sings with her cousin alia, sews with her cousin megga. when she's not off hawking with janna fossoway and merry crane, she's playing come-into-my-castle with that little bulwer girl. she never goes riding but she takes a tail, four or five companions and a dozen guards at least. and there's always men about her, even in the maidenvault. men. that was something. that had possibilities. what men are these, pray tell? ser osmund shrugged. singers. she's a fool for singers and jugglers and such. knights, come round to moon over her cousins. ser tallad's the worst, osney says. that big oaf don't seem to know if it's elinor or alia he wants, but he knows he wants her awful bad. the redwyne twins come calling too. slobber brings flowers and fruit, and horror's taken up the lute. to hear osney tell it, you could make a sweeter sound strangling a cat. the summer islander's always underfoot as well. jalabhar xho? cersei gave a derisive snort. begging her for gold and swords to win his homeland back, most like. beneath his jewels and feathers, xho was little more than a wellborn beggar. robert could have put an end to his importuning for good with one firm no, but the notion of conquering the summer isles had appealed to her drunken lout of a husband. no doubt he dreamt of brown-skinned wenches naked beneath feathered cloaks, with nipples black as coal. so instead of no, robert always told xho, next year, though somehow next year never came. i couldn't say if he was begging, your grace, ser osmund answered. osney says he's teaching them the summer tongue. not osney, the quee — the filly and her cousins. a horse that speaks the summer tongue would make a great sensation, the queen said dryly. tell your brother to keep his spurs well honed. i shall find some way for him to mount his filly soon, you may rely on that. i'll tell him, your grace. he's eager for that ride, don't think he ain't. she's a pretty little thing, that filly. it is me he's eager for, fool, the queen thought. all he wants of margaery is the lordship between her legs. as fond as she was of osmund, at times he seemed as slow as robert. i hope his sword is quicker than his wits. the day may come that tommen has some need of it. they were crossing beneath the shadow of the broken tower of the hand when the sound of cheers swept over them. across the yard, some squire had made a pass at the quintain and sent the crossarm spinning. the cheers were being led by margaery tyrell and her hens. a lot of uproar for very little. you would think the boy had won a tourney. then she was startled to see that it was tommen on the courser, clad all in gilded plate. the queen had little choice but to don a smile and go to see her son. she reached him as the knight of flowers was helping him from his horse. the boy was breathless with excitement. did you see? he was asking everyone. i did it just the way ser loras said. did you see, ser osney? i did, said osney kettleblack. a pretty sight. you have a better seat than me, sire, put in ser dermot. i broke the lance too. ser loras, did you hear it? as loud as a crack of thunder. a rose of jade and gold clasped ser loras's white cloak at the shoulder, and the wind was riffling artfully through his brown locks. you rode a splendid course, but once is not enough. you must do it again upon the morrow. you must ride every day, until every blow lands true and straight, and your lance is as much a part of you as your arm. i want to. you were glorious. margaery went to one knee, kissed the king upon his cheek, and put an arm around him. brother, take care, she warned loras. my gallant husband will be unhorsing you in a few more years, i think. her three cousins all agreed, and the wretched little bulwer girl began to hop about, chanting, tommen will be the champion, the champion, the champion. when he is a man grown, said cersei. their smiles withered like roses kissed by frost. the pock-faced old septa was the first to bend her knee. the rest followed, save for the little queen and her brother. tommen did not seem to notice the sudden chill in the air. mother, did you see me? he burbled happily. i broke my lance on the shield, and the bag never hit me! i was watching from across the yard. you did very well, tommen. i would expect no less of you. jousting is in your blood. one day you shall rule the lists, as your father did. no man will stand before him. margaery tyrell gave the queen a coy smile. but i never knew that king robert was so accomplished at the joust. pray tell us, your grace, what tourneys did he win? what great knights did he unseat? i know the king should like to hear about his father's victories. a flush crept up cersei' s neck. the girl had caught her out. robert baratheon had been an indifferent jouster, in truth. during tourneys he had much preferred the melee, where he could beat men bloody with blunted axe or hammer. it had been jaime she had been thinking of when she spoke. it is not like me to forget myself. robert won the tourney of the trident, she had to say. he overthrew prince rhaegar and named me his queen of love and beauty. i am surprised you do not know that story, good-daughter. she gave margaery no time to frame a reply. ser osmund, help my son from his armor, if you would be so good. ser loras, walk with me. i need a word with you. the knight of flowers had no recourse but to follow at her heels like the puppy he was. cersei waited until they were on the serpentine steps before she said, whose notion was that, pray? my sister's, he admitted. ser tallad, ser dermot, and ser portifer were riding at the quintain, and the queen suggested that his grace might like to have a turn. he calls her that to irk me. and your part? i helped his grace to don his armor and showed him how to couch his lance, he answered. that horse was much too large for him. what if he had fallen off? what if the sandbag had smashed his head in? bruises and bloody lips are all part of being a knight. i begin to understand why your brother is a cripple. that wiped the smile off his pretty face, she was pleased to see. perhaps my brother failed to explain your duties to you, ser. you are here to protect my son from his enemies. training him for knighthood is the province of the master-at-arms. the red keep has had no master-at-arms since aron santagar was slain, ser loras said, with a hint of reproach in his voice. his grace is almost nine, and eager to learn. at his age he should be a squire. someone has to teach him. someone will, but it will not be you. pray, who did you squire for, ser? she asked sweetly. lord renly, was it not? i had that honor. yes, i thought as much. cersei had seen how tight the bonds grew between squires and the knights they served. she did not want tommen growing close to loras tyrell. the knight of flowers was no sort of man for any boy to emulate. i have been remiss. with a realm to rule, a war to fight, and a father to mourn, somehow i overlooked the crucial matter of naming a new master-at-arms. i shall rectify that error at once. ser loras pushed back a brown curl that had fallen across his forehead. your grace will not find any man half so skilled with sword and lance as i. humble, aren't we? tommen is your king, not your squire. you are to fight for him and die for him, if need be. no more. she left him on the drawbridge that spanned the dry moat with its bed of iron spikes and entered maegor's holdfast alone. where am i to find a master-at-arms? she wondered as she climbed to her apartments. having refused ser loras, she dare not turn to any of the kingsguard knights; that would be salt in the wound, certain to anger highgarden. ser tallad? ser dermot? there must be someone. tommen was growing fond of his new sworn shield, but osney was proving himself less capable than she had hoped in the matter of maid margaery, and she had a different office in mind for his brother osfryd. it was rather a pity that the hound had gone rabid. tommen had always been frightened of sandor clegane's harsh voice and burned face, and clegane's scorn would have been the perfect antidote to loras tyrell's simpering chivalry. aron santagar was dornish, cersei recalled. i could send to dome. centuries of blood and war lay between sunspear and highgarden. yes, a dornishman might suit my needs admirably. there must be some good swords in dome. when she entered her solar, cersei found lord qyburn reading in a window seat. if it please your grace, i have reports. more plots and treasons? cersei asked. i have had a long and tiring day. tell me quickly. he smiled sympathetically. as you wish. there is talk that the archon of tyrosh has offered terms to lys, to end their present trade war. it had been rumored that myr was about to enter the war on the tyroshi side, but without the golden company the myrish did not believe they... what the myrish believe does not concern me. the free cities were always fighting one another. their endless betrayals and alliances meant little and less to westeros. do you have any news of more import? the slave revolt in astapor has spread to meereen, it would seem. sailors off a dozen ships speak of dragons... harpies. it is harpies in meereen. she remembered that from somewhere. meereen was at the far end of the world, out east beyond valyria. let the slaves revolt. why should i care? we keep no slaves in westeros. is that all you have for me? there is some news from dome that your grace may find of more interest. prince doran has imprisoned ser daemon sand, a bastard who once squired for the red viper. i recall him. ser daemon had been amongst the dornish knights who had accompanied prince oberyn to king's landing. what did he do? he demanded that prince oberyn' s daughters be set free. more fool him. also, lord qyburn said, the daughter of the knight of spottswood was betrothed quite unexpectedly to lord estermont, our friends in dome inform us. she was sent to greenstone that very night, and it is said she and estermont have already wed. a bastard in the belly would explain that. cersei toyed with a lock of her hair. how old is the blushing bride? three-and-twenty, your grace. whereas lord estermont —   — must be seventy. i am aware of that. the estermonts were her good-kin through robert, whose father had taken one of them to wife in what must have been a fit of lust or madness. by the time cersei wed the king, robert's lady mother was long dead, though both of her brothers had turned up for the wedding and stayed for half a year. robert had later insisted on returning the courtesy with a visit to estermont, a mountainous little island off cape wrath. the dank and dismal fortnight cersei spent at greenstone, the seat of house estermont, was the longest of her young life. jaime dubbed the castle greenshit at first sight, and soon had cersei doing it too. elsewise she passed her days watching her royal husband hawk, hunt, and drink with his uncles, and bludgeon various male cousins senseless in greenshit's yard. there had been a female cousin too, a chunky little widow with breasts as big as melons whose husband and father had both died at storm's end during the siege. her father was good to me, robert told her, and she and i would play together when the two of us were small. it did not take him long to start playing with her again. as soon as cersei closed her eyes, the king would steal off to console the poor lonely creature. one night she had jaime follow him, to confirm her suspicions. when her brother returned he asked her if she wanted robert dead. no, she had replied, i want him horned. she liked to think that was the night when joffrey was conceived. eldon estermont has taken a wife fifty years his junior, she said to qyburn. why should that concern me? he shrugged. i do not say it should... but daemon sand and this santagar girl were both close to prince doran' s own daughter, arianne, or so the domishmen would have us believe. perhaps it means little or less, but i thought your grace should know. now i do. she was losing patience. do you have more? one more thing. a trifling matter. he gave her an apologetic smile and told her of a puppet show that had recently become popular amongst the city's smallfolk; a puppet show wherein the kingdom of the beasts was ruled by a pride of haughty lions. the puppet lions grow greedy and arrogant as this treasonous tale proceeds, until they begin to devour their own subjects. when the noble stag makes objection, the lions devour him as well, and roar that it is their right as the mightiest of beasts. and is that the end of it? cersei asked, amused. looked at in the right light, it could be seen as a salutary lesson. no, your grace. at the end a dragon hatches from an egg and devours all of the lions. the ending took the puppet show from simple insolence to treason. witless fools. only cretins would hazard their heads upon a wooden dragon. she considered a moment. send some of your whisperers to these shows and make note of who attends. if any of them should be men of note, i would know their names. what will be done with them, if i may be so bold? any men of substance shall be fined. half their worth should be sufficient to teach them a sharp lesson and refill our coffers, without quite ruining them. those too poor to pay can lose an eye, for watching treason. for the puppeteers, the axe. there are four. perhaps your grace might allow me two of them for mine own purposes. a woman would be especially... i gave you senelle, the queen said sharply. alas. the poor girl is quite... exhausted. cersei did not like to think about that. the girl had come with her unsuspecting, thinking she was along to serve and pour. even when qyburn clapped the chain around her wrist, she had not seemed to understand. the memory still made the queen queasy. the cells were bitter cold. even the torches shivered. and that foul thing screaming in the darkness... yes, you may take a woman. two, if it please you. but first i will have names. as you command. qyburn withdrew. outside, the sun was setting. dorcas had prepared a bath for her. the queen was soaking pleasantly in the warm water and contemplating what she would say to her supper guests when jaime came bursting through the door and ordered jocelyn and dorcas from the room. her brother looked rather less than immaculate and had a smell of horse about him. he had tommen with him too. sweet sister, he said, the king requires a word. cersei's golden tresses floated in the bathwater. the room was steamy. a drop of sweat trickled down her cheek. tommen? she said, in a dangerously soft voice. what is it now? the boy knew that tone. he shrank back. his grace wants his white courser on the morrow, jaime said. for his jousting lesson. she sat up in the tub. there will be no jousting. yes, there will. tommen puffed out his lower lip. i have to ride every day. and you shall, the queen declared, once we have a proper master-at-arms to supervise your training. i don't want a proper master-at-arms. i want ser loras. you make too much of that boy. your little wife has filled your head with foolish notions of his prowess, i know, but osmund kettleblack is thrice the knight that loras is. jaime laughed. not the osmund kettleblack i know. she could have throttled him. perhaps i need to command ser loras to allow ser osmund to unhorse him. that might chase the stars from tommen's eyes. salt a slug and shame a hero, and they shrink right up. i am sending for a dornishman to train you, she said. the dornish are the finest jousters in the realm. they are not, said tommen. anyway, i don't want any stupid dornishman, i want ser loras. i command it. jaime laughed. he is no help at all. does he think this is amusing? the queen slapped the water angrily. must i send for pate? you do not command me. i am your mother. yes, but i'm the king. margaery says that everyone has to do what the king says. i want my white courser saddled on the morrow so ser loras can teach me how to joust. i want a kitten too, and i don't want to eat beets. he crossed his arms. jaime was still laughing. the queen ignored him. tommen, come here. when he hung back, she sighed. are you afraid? a king should not show fear. the boy approached the tub, his eyes downcast. she reached out and stroked his golden curls. king or no, you are a little boy. until you come of age, the rule is mine. you will learn to joust, i promise you. but not from loras. the knights of the kingsguard have more important duties than playing with a child. ask the lord commander. isn't that so, ser? very important duties. jaime smiled thinly. riding round the city walls, for an instance. tommen looked close to tears. can i still have a kitten? perhaps, the queen allowed. so long as i hear no more nonsense about jousting. can you promise me that? he shuffled his feet. yes. good. now run along. my guests will be here shortly. tommen ran along, but before he left he turned back to say, when i'm king in my own right, i'm going to outlaw beets. her brother shoved the door shut with his stump. your grace, he said, when he and cersei were alone, i was wondering. are you drunk, or merely stupid? she slapped the water once again, sending up another splash to wash across his feet. guard your tongue, or —   — or what? will you send me to inspect the city walls again? he sat and crossed his legs. your bloody walls are fine. i've crawled over every inch of them and had a look at all seven of the gates. the hinges on the iron gate are rusted, and the king's gate and mud gate need to be replaced after the pounding stannis gave them with his rams. the walls are as strong as they have ever been... but perchance your grace has forgotten that our friends of highgarden are inside the walls? i forget nothing, she told him, thinking of a certain gold coin, with a hand on one face and the head of a forgotten king on the other. how did some miserable wretch of a gaoler come to have such a coin hidden beneath his chamber pot? how does a man like rugen come to have old gold from highgarden? this is the first i have heard of a new master-at-arms. you'll need to look long and hard to find a better jouster than loras tyrell. ser loras is —  i know what he is. i won't have him near my son. you had best remind him of his duties. her bath was growing cool. he knows his duties, and there's no better lance —  you were better, before you lost your hand. ser barristan, when he was young. arthur dayne was better, and prince rhaegar was a match for even him. do not prate at me about how fierce the flower is. he's just a boy. she was tired of jaime balking her. no one had ever balked her lord father. when tywin lannister spoke, men obeyed. when cersei spoke, they felt free to counsel her, to contradict her, even refuse her. it is all because i am a woman. because i cannot fight them with a sword. they gave robert more respect than they give me, and robert was a witless sot. she would not suffer it, especially not from jaime. i need to rid myself of him, and soon. once upon a time she had dreamt that the two of them might rule the seven kingdoms side by side, but jaime had become more of a hindrance than a help. cersei rose from the bath. water ran down her legs and trickled from her hair. when i want your counsel i will ask for it. leave me, ser. i must needs dress. your supper guests, i know. what plot is this, now? there are so many i lose track. his glance fell to the water beading in the golden hair between her legs. he still wants me. pining for what you've lost, brother? jaime raised his eyes. i love you too, sweet sister. but you're a fool. a beautiful golden fool. the words stung. you called me kinder words at greenstone, the night you planted jo ff inside me, cersei thought. get out. she turned her back to him and listened to him leave, fumbling at the door with his stump. whilst jocelyn was making certain that all was in readiness for the supper, dorcas helped the queen into her new gown. it had stripes of shiny green satin alternating with stripes of plush black velvet, and intricate black myrish lace above the bodice. myrish lace was costly, but it was necessary for a queen to look her best at all times, and her wretched washerwomen had shrunk several of her old gowns so they no longer fit. she would have whipped them for their carelessness, but taena had urged her to be merciful. the smallfolk will love you more if you are kind, she had said, so cersei had ordered the value of the gowns deducted from the women's wages, a much more elegant solution. dorcas put a silver looking glass into her hand. very good, the queen thought, smiling at her reflection. it was pleasant to be out of mourning. black made her look too pale. a pity i am not supping with lady merryweather, the queen reflected. it had been a long day, and taena's wit always cheered her. cersei had not had a friend she so enjoyed since melara hetherspoon, and melara had turned out to be a greedy little schemer with ideas above her station. i should not think ill of her. she's dead and drowned, and she taught me never to trust anyone but jaime. by the time she joined them in the solar, her guests had made a good start on the hippocras. lady falyse not only looks like a fish, she drinks like one, she reflected, when she made note of the half-empty flagon. sweet falyse, she exclaimed, kissing the woman's cheek, and brave ser balman. i was so distraught when i heard about your dear, dear mother. how fares our lady tanda? lady falyse looked as if she were about to cry. your grace is good to ask. mother's hip was shattered by the fall, maester frenken says. he did what he could. now we pray, but... pray all you like, she will still be dead before the moon turns. women as old as tanda stokeworth did not survive a broken hip. i shall add my prayers to your own, said cersei. lord qyburn tells me that tanda was thrown from her horse. her saddle girth burst whilst she was riding, said ser balman byrch. the stableboy should have seen the strap was worn. he has been chastised. severely, i hope. the queen seated herself and indicated that her guests should sit as well. will you have another cup of hippocras, falyse? you were always fond of it, i seem to recall. it is so good of you to remember, your grace. how could i have forgotten? cersei thought. jaime said it was a wonder you did not piss the stuff. how was your journey? uncomfortable, complained falyse. it rained most of the day. we thought to spend the night at rosby, but that young ward of lord gyles refused us hospitality. she sniffed. mark my word, when gyles dies that ill-born wretch will make off with his gold. he may even try and claim the lands and lordship, though by rights rosby should come to us when gyles passes. my lady mother was aunt to his second wife, third cousin to gyles himself. is your sigil a lamb, my lady, or some sort of grasping monkey? cersei thought. lord gyles has been threatening to die for as long as i have known him, but he is still with us, and will be for many years, i do hope. she smiled pleasantly. no doubt he will cough the whole lot of us into our graves. like as not, ser balman agreed. rosby's ward was not the only one to vex us, your grace. we encountered ruffians on the road as well. filthy, unkempt creatures, with leather shields and axes. some had stars sewn on their jerkins, sacred stars of seven points, but they had an evil look about them all the same. they were lice-ridden, i am certain, added falyse. they call themselves sparrows, said cersei. a plague upon the land. our new high septon will need to deal with them, once he is crowned. if not, i shall deal with them myself. has his high holiness been chosen yet? asked falyse. no, the queen had to confess. septon ollidor was on the verge of being chosen, until some of these sparrows followed him to a brothel and dragged him naked out into the street. luceon seems the likely choice now, though our friends on the other hill say that he is still a few votes short of the required number. may the crone guide the deliberations with her golden lamp of wisdom, said lady falyse, most piously. ser balman shifted in his seat. your grace, an awkward matter, but... lest bad feeling fester between us, you should know that neither my good wife nor her mother had any hand in the naming of this bastard child. lollys is a simple creature, and her husband is given to black humors. i told him to choose a more fitting name for the boy. he laughed. the queen sipped her wine and studied him. ser balman had been a noted jouster once, and one of the handsomest knights in the seven kingdoms. he could still boast a handsome mustache; elsewise, he had not aged well. his wavy blond hair had retreated, whilst his belly advanced inexorably against his doublet. as a catspaw he leaves much to be desired, she reflected. still, he should serve. tyrion was a king's name before the dragons came. the imp has despoiled it, but perhaps this child can restore the name to honor. if the bastard lives so long. i know you are not to blame. lady tanda is the sister that i never had, and you... her voice broke. forgive me. i live in fear. falyse opened and closed her mouth, which made her look like some especially stupid fish. in... in fear, your grace? i have not slept a whole night through since joffrey died. cersei filled the goblets with hippocras. my friends... you are my friends, i hope? and king tommen's? that sweet lad, ser balman declared. your grace, the very words of house stokeworth are proud to be faithful. would that there were more like you, good ser. i tell you truly, i have grave doubts about ser bronn of the blackwater. husband and wife exchanged a look. the man is insolent, your grace, falyse said. uncouth and foul-mouthed. he is no true knight, ser balman said. no. cersei smiled, all for him. and you are a man who would know true knighthood. i remember watching you joust in... which tourney was it where you fought so brilliantly, ser? he smiled modestly. that affair at duskendale six years ago? no, you were not there, else you would surely have been crowned the queen of love and beauty. was it the tourney at lannisport after greyjoy's rebellion? i unhorsed many a good knight in that one... that was the one. her face grew somber. the imp vanished the night my father died, leaving two honest gaolers behind in pools of blood. some claim he fled across the narrow sea, but i wonder. the dwarf is cunning. perhaps he still lurks near, planning more murders. perhaps some friend is hiding him. bronn? ser balman stroked his bushy mustache. he was ever the imp's creature. only the stranger knows how many men he's sent to hell at tyrion's behest. your grace, i think i should have noticed a dwarf skulking about our lands, said ser balman. my brother is small. he was made for skulking. cersei let her hand shake. a child's name is a small thing... but insolence unpunished breeds rebellion. and this man bronn has been gathering sellswords to him, qyburn has told me. he has taken four knights into his household, said falyse. ser balman snorted. my good wife flatters them, to call them knights. they're upjumped sellswords, with not a thimble of chivalry to be found amongst the four of them. as i feared. bronn is gathering swords for the dwarf. may the seven save my little son. the imp will kill him as he killed his brother. she sobbed. my friends, i put my honor in your hands... but what is a queen's honor against a mother's fears? say on, your grace, ser balman assured her. your words shall ne'er leave this room. cersei reached across the table and gave his hand a squeeze. i... i would sleep more easily of a night if i were to hear that ser bronn had suffered a... a mishap... whilst hunting, perhaps. ser balman considered a moment. a mortal mishap? no, i desire you to break his little toe. she had to bite her lip. my enemies are everywhere and my friends are fools. i beg you, ser, she whispered, do not make me say it... i understand. ser balman raised a finger. a turnip would have grasped it quicker. you are a true knight indeed, ser. the answer to a frightened mother's prayers. cersei kissed him. do it quickly, if you would. bronn has only a few men about him now, but if we do not act, he will surely gather more. she kissed falyse. i shall never forget this, my friends. my true friends of stokeworth. proud to be faithful. you have my word, we shall find lollys a better husband when this is done. a kettleblack, perhaps. we lannisters pay our debts. the rest was hippocras and buttered beets, hot-baked bread, herb-crusted pike, and ribs of wild boar. cersei had become very fond of boar since robert's death. she did not even mind the company, though falyse simpered and balman preened from soup to sweet. it was past midnight before she could rid herself of them. ser balman proved a great one for suggesting yet another flagon, and the queen did not think it prudent to refuse. i could have hired a faceless man to kill bronn for half of what i've spent on hippocras, she reflected when they were gone at last. at that hour, her son was fast asleep, but cersei looked in upon him before seeking her own bed. she was surprised to find three black kittens cuddled up beside him. where did those come from? she asked ser meryn trant, outside the royal bedchamber. the little queen gave them to him. she only meant to give him one, but he couldn't decide which one he liked the best. better than cutting them out of their mother with a dagger, i suppose. margaery's clumsy attempts at seduction were so obvious as to be laughable. tommen is too young for kisses, so she gives him kittens. cersei rather wished they were not black, though. black cats brought ill luck, as rhaegar's little girl had discovered in this very castle. she would have been my daughter, if the mad king had not played his cruel jape on father. it had to have been the madness that led aerys to refuse lord tywin's daughter and take his son instead, whilst marrying his own son to a feeble dornish princess with black eyes and a flat chest. the memory of the rejection still rankled, even after all these years. many a night she had watched prince rhaegar in the hall, playing his silver-stringed harp with those long, elegant fingers of his. had any man ever been so beautiful? he was more than a man, though. his blood was the blood of old valyria, the blood of dragons and gods. when she was just a little girl, her father had promised her that she would marry rhaegar. she could not have been more than six or seven. never speak of it, child, he had told her, smiling his secret smile that only cersei ever saw. not until his grace agrees to the betrothal. it must remain our secret for now. and so it had, though once she had drawn a picture of herself flying behind rhaegar on a dragon, her arms wrapped tight about his chest. when jaime had discovered it she told him it was queen alysanne and king jaehaerys. she was ten when she finally saw her prince in the flesh, at the tourney her lord father had thrown to welcome king aerys to the west. viewing stands had been raised beneath the walls of lannisport, and the cheers of the smallfolk had echoed off casterly rock like rolling thunder. they cheered father twice as loudly as they cheered the king, the queen recalled, but only half as loudly as they cheered prince rhaegar. seventeen and new to knighthood, rhaegar targaryen had worn black plate over golden ringmail when he cantered onto the lists. long streamers of red and gold and orange silk had floated behind his helm, like flames. two of her uncles fell before his lance, along with a dozen of her father's finest jousters, the flower of the west. by night the prince played his silver harp and made her weep. when she had been presented to him, cersei had almost drowned in the depths of his sad purple eyes. he has been wounded, she recalled thinking, but i will mend his hurt when we are wed. next to rhaegar, even her beautiful jaime had seemed no more than a callow boy. the prince is going to be my husband, she had thought, giddy with excitement, and when the old king dies i'll be the queen. her aunt had confided that truth to her before the tourney. you must be especially beautiful, lady genna told her, fussing with her dress, for at the final feast it shall be announced that you and prince rhaegar are betrothed. cersei had been so happy that day. elsewise she would never have dared visit the tent of maggy the frog. she had only done it to show jeyne and melara that the lioness fears nothing. i was going to be a queen. why should a queen be afraid of some hideous old woman? the memory of that foretelling still made her flesh crawl a lifetime later. jeyne ran shrieking from the tent in fear, the queen remembered, but melara stayed and so did i. we let her taste our blood, and laughed at her stupid prophecies. none of them made the least bit of sense. she was going to be prince rhaegar' s wife, no matter what the woman said. her father had promised it, and tywin lannister's word was gold. her laughter died at tourney's end. there had been no final feast, no toasts to celebrate her betrothal to prince rhaegar. only cold silences and chilly looks between the king and her father. later, when aerys and his son and all his gallant knights had departed for king's landing, the girl had gone to her aunt in tears, not understanding. your father proposed the match, lady genna told her, but aerys refused to hear of it.'you are my most able servant, tywin,' the king said,'but a man does not marry his heir to his servant's daughter.' dry those tears, little one. have you ever seen a lion weep? your father will find another man for you, a better man than rhaegar. her aunt had lied, though, and her father had failed her, just as jaime was failing her now. father found no better man. instead he gave me robert, and maggy's curse bloomed like some poisonous flower. if she had only married rhaegar as the gods intended, he would never have looked twice at the wolf girl. rhaegar would be our king today and i would be his queen, the mother of his sons. she had never forgiven robert for killing him. but then, lions were not good at forgiving. as ser bronn of the blackwater would shortly learn. it was a slow climb to the top of visenya's hill. as the horses labored upward, the queen leaned back against a plump red cushion. from outside came the voice of ser osmund kettleblack. make way. clear the street. make way for her grace the queen. margaery does keep a lively court, lady merryweather was saying. we have jugglers, mummers, poets, puppets... singers? prompted cersei. many and more, your grace. hamish the harper plays for her once a fortnight, and sometimes alaric of eysen will entertain us of an evening, but the blue bard is her favorite. cersei recalled the bard from tommen's wedding. young, and fair to look upon. could there be something there? there are other men as well, i hear. knights and courtiers. admirers. tell me true, my lady. do you think margaery is still a maiden? she says she is, your grace. so she does. what do you say? taena's black eyes sparkled with mischief. when she wed lord renly at highgarden, i helped disrobe him for the bedding. his lordship was a well-made man, and lusty. i saw the proof when we tumbled him into the wedding bed where his bride awaited him as naked as her name day, blushing prettily beneath the coverlets. ser loras had carried her up the steps himself. margaery may say that the marriage was never consummated, that lord renly had drunk too much wine at the wedding feast, but i promise you, the bit between his legs was anything but weary when last i saw it. did you chance to see the marriage bed the morning after? cersei asked. did she bleed? no sheet was shown, your grace. a pity. still, the absence of a bloody sheet meant little, by itself. common peasant girls bled like pigs upon their wedding nights, she had heard, but that was less true of highborn maids like margaery tyrell. a lord's daughter was more like to give her maidenhead to a horse than a husband, it was said, and margaery had been riding since she was old enough to walk. i understand the little queen has many admirers amongst our household knights. the redwyne twins, ser tallad... who else, pray tell? lady merryweather gave a shrug. ser lambert, the fool who hides a good eye behind a patch. bayard norcross. courtenay greenhill. the brothers woodwright, sometimes portifer and often lucantine. oh, and grand maester pycelle is a frequent visitor. pycelle? truly? had that doddering old worm forsaken the lion for the rose? if so, he will regret it. who else? the summer islander in his feathered cloak. how could i have forgotten him, with his skin as black as ink? others come to pay court to her cousins. elinor is promised to the ambrose boy, but loves to flirt, and megga has a new suitor every fortnight. once she kissed a potboy in the kitchen. i have heard talk of her marrying lady bulwer's brother, but if megga were to choose for herself, she would sooner have mark mullendore, i am certain. cersei laughed. the butterfly knight who lost his arm on the blackwater? what good is half a man? megga thinks him sweet. she has asked lady margaery to help her find a monkey for him. a monkey. the queen did not know what to say to that. sparrows and monkeys. truly, the realm is going mad. what of our brave ser loras? how often does he call upon his sister? more than any of the others. when taena frowned, a tiny crease appeared between her dark eyes. every morn and every night he visits, unless duty interferes. her brother is devoted to her, they share everything with... oh... for a moment, the myrish woman looked almost shocked. then a smile spread across her face. i have had a most wicked thought, your grace. best keep it to yourself. the hill is thick with sparrows, and we all know how sparrows abhor wickedness. i have heard they abhor soap and water too, your grace. perhaps too much prayer robs a man of his sense of smell. i shall be sure to ask his high holiness. the draperies swayed back and forth in a wash of crimson silk. orton told me that the high septon has no name, lady taena said. can that be true? in myr we all have names. oh, he had a name once. they all do. the queen waved a hand dismissive ly. even septons born of noble blood go only by their given names once they have taken their vows. when one of them is elevated to high septon, he puts aside that name as well. the faith will tell you he no longer has any need of a man's name, for he has become the avatar of the gods. how do you distinguish one high septon from another? with difficulty. one has to say,'the fat one,' or'the one before the fat one,' or'the old one who died in his sleep.' you can always winkle out their birth names if you like, but they take umbrage if you use them. it reminds them that they were born ordinary men, and they do not like that. my lord husband tells me this new one was born with filth beneath his fingernails. so i suspect. as a rule the most devout elevate one of their own, but there have been exceptions. grand maester pycelle had informed her of the history, at tedious length. during the reign of king baelor the blessed a simple stonemason was chosen as high septon. he worked stone so beautifully that baelor decided he was the smith reborn in mortal flesh. the man could neither read nor write, nor recall the words of the simplest of prayers. some still claimed that baelor's hand had the man poisoned to spare the realm embarrassment. after that one died, an eight-year-old boy was elevated, once more at king baelor's urging. the boy worked miracles, his grace declared, though even his little healing hands could not save baelor during his final fast. lady merryweather gave a laugh. eight years old? perhaps my son could be high septon. he is almost seven. does he pray a lot? the queen asked. he prefers to play with swords. a real boy, then. can he name all seven gods? i think so. i shall have to take him under consideration. cersei did not doubt that there were any number of boys who would do more honor to the crystal crown than the wretch on whom the most devout had chosen to bestow it. this is what comes of letting fools and cowards rule themselves. next time, i will choose their master for them. and the next time might not be long in coming, if the new high septon continued to annoy her. baelor's hand had little to teach cersei lannister where such matters were concerned. clear the way! ser osmund kettleblack was shouting. make way for the queen's grace! the litter began to slow, which could only mean that they were near the top of the hill. you should bring this son of yours to court, cersei told lady merryweather. six is not too young. tommen needs other boys about him. why not your son? joffrey had never had a close friend of his own age, that she recalled. the poor boy was always alone. i had jaime when i was a child... and melara, until she fell into the well. joff had been fond of the hound, to be sure, but that was not friendship. he was looking for the father he never found in robert. a little foster brother might be just what tommen needs to wean him away from margaery and her hens. in time they might grow as close as robert and his boyhood friend ned stark. a fool, but a loyal fool. tommen will have need of loyal friends to watch his back. your grace is kind, but russell has never known any home but longtable. i fear he would be lost in this great city. in the beginning, the queen allowed, but he will soon outgrow that, as i did. when my father sent for me to court i wept and jaime raged, until my aunt sat me down in the stone garden and told me there was no one in king's landing that i need ever fear.'you are a lioness,' she said, 'and it is for all the lesser beasts to fear you.' your son will find his courage too. surely you would prefer to have him close at hand, where you could see him every day? he is your only child, is he not? for the present. my lord husband has asked the gods to bless us with another son, in case... i know. she thought of joffrey, clawing at his neck. in his last moments he had looked to her in desperate appeal, and a sudden memory had stopped her heart; a drop of red blood hissing in a candle flame, a croaking voice that spoke of crowns and shrouds, of death at the hands of the valonqar. outside the litter, ser osmund was shouting something, and someone was shouting back. the litter jerked to a halt. are you all dead? roared kettleblack. get out of the bloody way! the queen pulled back a corner of the curtain and beckoned to ser meryn trant. what seems to be the trouble? the sparrows, your grace. ser meryn wore white scale armor beneath his cloak. his helm and shield were slung from his saddle. camping in the street. we'll make them move. do that, but gently. i do not care to be caught up in another riot. cersei let the curtain fall. this is absurd. it is, your grace, lady merryweather agreed. the high septon should have come to you. and these wretched sparrows... he feeds them, coddles them, blesses them. yet will not bless the king. the blessing was an empty ritual, she knew, but rituals and ceremonies had power in the eyes of the ignorant. aegon the conqueror himself had dated the start of his realm from the day the high septon anointed him in oldtown. this wretched priest will obey, or learn how weak and human he still is. orton says it is the gold he really wants. that he means to withhold his blessing until the crown resumes its payments. the faith will have its gold as soon as we have peace. septon torbert and septon raynard had been most understanding of her plight... unlike the wretched braavosi, who had hounded poor lord gyles so mercilessly that he had taken to his bed, coughing up blood. we had to have those ships. she could not rely upon the arbor for her navy; the redwynes were too close to the tyrells. she needed her own strength at sea. the dromonds rising on the river would give her that. her flagship would dip twice as many oars as king robert's hammer. aurane had asked her leave to name her lord tywin, which cersei had been pleased to grant. she looked forward to hearing men speak of her father as a she. another of the ships would be named sweet cersei, and would bear a gilded figurehead carved in her likeness, clad in mail and lion helm, with spear in hand. brave joffrey, lady joanna, and lioness would follow her to sea, along with queen margaery, golden rose, lord renly, lady olenna, and princess myrcella. the queen had made the mistake of telling tommen he might name the last five. he had actually chosen moon boy for one. only when lord aurane suggested that men might not want to serve on a ship named for a fool had the boy reluctantly agreed to honor his sister instead. if this ragged septon thinks to make me buy tommen' s blessing, he will soon learn better, she told taena. the queen did not intend to truckle to a pack of priests. the litter halted yet again, so suddenly that cersei jerked. oh, this is infuriating. she leaned out once more, and saw that they had reached the top of visenya's hill. ahead loomed the great sept of baelor, with its magnificent dome and seven shining towers, but between her and the marble steps lay a sullen sea of humanity, brown and ragged and unwashed. sparrows, she thought, sniffing, though no sparrows had ever smelled so rank. cersei was appalled. qyburn had brought her reports of their numbers, but hearing about them was one thing and seeing them another. hundreds were encamped upon the plaza, hundreds more in the gardens. their cookfires filled the air with smoke and stinks. roughspun tents and miserable hovels made of mud and scrap wood besmirched the pristine white marble. they were even huddled on the steps, beneath the great sept's towering doors. ser osmund came trotting back to her. beside him rode ser osfryd, mounted on a stallion as golden as his cloak. osfryd was the middle kettleblack, quieter than his siblings, more apt to scowl than smile. and crueler as well, if the tales are true. perhaps i should have sent him to the wall. grand maester pycelle had wanted an older man more seasoned in the ways of war to command the gold cloaks, and several of her other councillors had agreed with him. ser osfryd is seasoned quite sufficiently, she had told them, but even that did not shut them up. they yap at me like a pack of small, annoying dogs. her patience with pycelle had all but run its course. he had even had the temerity to object to her sending to dome for a master-at-arms, on the grounds that it might offend the tyrells. why do you think i'm doing it? she had asked him scornfully. beg pardon, your grace, said ser osmund. my brother's summoning more gold cloaks. we'll clear a path, never fear. i do not have the time. i will continue on afoot. please, your grace. taena caught her arm. they frighten me. there are hundreds of them, and so dirty. cersei kissed her cheek. the lion does not fear the sparrow... but it is good of you to care. i know you love me well, my lady. ser osmund, kindly help me down. if i had known i was going to have to walk, i would have dressed for it. she wore a white gown slashed with cloth-of-gold, lacy but demure. it had been several years since the last time she had donned it, and the queen found it uncomfortably tight about the middle. ser osmund, ser meryn, you will accompany me. ser osfryd, see that my litter comes to no harm. some of the sparrows looked gaunt and hollow-eyed enough to eat her horses. as she made her way through the ragged throng, past their cookfires, wagons, and crude shelters, the queen found herself remembering another crowd that had once gathered on this plaza. the day she wed robert baratheon, thousands had turned out to cheer for them. all the women wore their best, and half the men had children on their shoulders. when she had emerged from inside the sept, hand in hand with the young king, the crowd sent up a roar so loud it could be heard in lannisport. they like you well, my lady, robert whispered in her ear. see, every face is smiling. for that one short moment she had been happy in her marriage... until she chanced to glance at jaime. no, she remembered thinking, not every face, my lord. no one was smiling now. the looks the sparrows gave her were dull, sullen, hostile. they made way but reluctantly. if they were truly sparrows, a shout would send them flying. a hundred gold cloaks with staves and swords and maces could clear this rabble quick enough. that was what lord tywin would have done. he would have ridden over them instead of walking through. when she saw what they had done to baelor the beloved, the queen had cause to rue her soft heart. the great marble statue that had smiled serenely over the plaza for a hundred years was waist-deep in a heap of bones and skulls. some of the skulls had scraps of flesh still clinging to them. a crow sat atop one such, enjoying a dry, leathery feast. flies were everywhere. what is the meaning of this? cersei demanded of the crowd. do you mean to bury blessed baelor in a mountain of carrion? a one-legged man stepped forward, leaning on a wooden crutch. your grace, these are the bones of holy men and women, murdered for their faith. septons, septas, brothers brown and dun and green, sisters white and blue and grey. some were hanged, some disemboweled. septs have been despoiled, maidens and mothers raped by godless men and demon worshipers. even silent sisters have been molested. the mother above cries out in her anguish. we have brought their bones here from all over the realm, to bear witness to the agony of the holy faith. cersei could feel the weight of eyes upon her. the king shall know of these atrocities, she answered solemnly. tommen will share your outrage. this is the work of stannis and his red witch, and the savage northmen who worship trees and wolves. she raised her voice. good people, your dead shall be avenged! a few cheered, but only a few. we ask no vengeance for our dead, said the one-legged man, only protection for the living. for the septs and holy places. the iron throne must defend the faith, growled a hulking lout with a seven-pointed star painted on his brow. a king who does not protect his people is no king at all. mutters of assent went up from those around him. one man had the temerity to grasp ser meryn by the wrist, and say, it is time for all anointed knights to forsake their worldly masters and defend our holy faith. stand with us, ser, if you love the seven. unhand me, said ser meryn, wrenching free. i hear you, cersei said. my son is young, but he loves the seven well. you shall have his protection, and mine own. the man with the star upon his brow was not appeased. the warrior will defend us, he said, not this fat boy king. meryn trant reached for his sword, but cersei stopped him before he could unsheathe it. she had only two knights amidst a sea of sparrows. she saw staves and scythes, cudgels and clubs, several axes. i will have no blood shed in this holy place, ser. why are all men such children? cut him down, and the rest will tear us limb from limb. we are all the mother's children. come, his high holiness awaits us. but as she made her way through the press to the steps of the sept, a gaggle of armed men stepped out to block the doors. they wore mail and boiled leather, with here and there a bit of dinted plate. some had spears and some had longswords. more favored axes, and had sewn red stars upon their bleached white surcoats. two had the insolence to cross their spears and bar her way. is this how you receive your queen? she demanded of them. pray, where are raynard and torbert? it was not like those two to miss a chance to fawn on her. torbert always made a show of getting down on his knees to wash her feet. i do not know the men you speak of, said one of the men with a red star on his surcoat, but if they are of the faith, no doubt the seven had need of their service. septon raynard and septon torbert are of the most devout, cersei said, and will be furious to learn that you obstructed me. do you mean to deny me entrance to baelor's holy sept? your grace, said a greybeard with a stooped shoulder. you are welcome here, but your men must leave their swordbelts. no weapons are allowed within, by command of the high septon. knights of the kingsguard do not set aside their swords, not even in the presence of the king. in the king's house, the king's word must rule, replied the aged knight, but this is the house of the gods. color rose to her cheeks. one word to meryn trant, and the stoop-backed greybeard would be meeting his gods sooner than he might have liked. not here, though. not now. wait for me, she told the kingsguard curtly. alone, she climbed the steps. the spearmen uncrossed their spears. two other men put their weight against the doors, and with a great groan they swung apart. in the hall of lamps, cersei found a score of septons on their knees, but not in prayer. they had pails of soap and water, and were scrubbing at the floor. their roughspun robes and sandals led cersei to take them for sparrows, until one raised his head. his face was red as a beet, and there were broken blisters on his hands, bleeding. your grace. septon raynard? the queen could scarce believe what she was seeing. what are you doing on your knees? he is cleaning the floor. the speaker was shorter than the queen by several inches and as thin as a broom handle. work is a form of prayer, most pleasing to the smith. he stood, scrub brush in hand. your grace. we have been expecting you. the man's beard was grey and brown and closely trimmed, his hair tied up in a hard knot behind his head. though his robes were clean, they were frayed and patched as well. he had rolled his sleeves up his elbows as he scrubbed, but below the knees the cloth was soaked and sodden. his face was sharply pointed, with deep-set eyes as brown as mud. his feet are bare, she saw with dismay. they were hideous as well, hard and horny things, thick with callus. you are his high holiness? we are. father, give me strength. the queen knew that she should kneel, but the floor was wet with soap and dirty water and she did not wish to ruin her gown. she glanced over at the old men on their knees. i do not see my friend septon torbert. septon torbert has been confined to a penitent's cell on bread and water. it is sinful for any man to be so plump when half the realm is starving. cersei had suffered quite enough for one day. she let him see her anger. is this how you greet me? with a scrub brush in your hand, dripping water? do you know who i am? your grace is the queen regent of the seven kingdoms, the man said, but in the seven- pointed star it is written that as men bow to their lords, and lords to their kings, so kings and queens must bow before the seven who are one. is he telling me to kneel? if so, he did not know her very well. by rights you should have met me on the steps in your finest robes, with the crystal crown upon your head. we have no crown, your grace. her frown deepened. my lord father gave your predecessor a crown of rare beauty, wrought in crystal and spun gold. and for that gift we honor him in our prayers, the high septon said, but the poor need food in their bellies more than we need gold and crystal on our head. that crown has been sold. so have the others in our vaults, and all our rings, and our robes of cloth-of-gold and cloth-of-silver. wool will keep a man as warm. that is why the seven gave us sheep. he is utterly mad. the most devout must have been mad as well, to elevate this creature... mad, or terrified of the beggars at their doors. qyburn's whisperers claimed that septon luceon had been nine votes from elevation when those doors had given way, and the sparrows came pouring into the great sept with their leader on their shoulders and their axes in their hands. she fixed the small man with an icy stare. is there someplace where we may speak more privily, your holiness? the high septon surrendered his scrub brush to one of the most devout. if your grace will follow us? he led her through the inner doors, into the sept proper. their footsteps echoed off the marble floor. dust motes swam in the beams of colored light slanting down through the leaded glass of the great dome. incense sweetened the air, and beside the seven altars candles shone like stars. a thousand twinkled for the mother and near as many for the maid, but you could count the stranger's candles on two hands and still have fingers left. even here the sparrows had invaded. a dozen scruffy hedge knights were kneeling before the warrior, beseeching him to bless the swords they had piled at his feet. at the mother's altar, a septon was leading a hundred sparrows in prayer, their voices as distant as waves upon the shore. the high septon led cersei to where the crone raised her lantern. when he knelt before the altar, she had no choice but to kneel beside him. mercifully, this high septon was not as long- winded as the fat one had been. i should be grateful for that much, i suppose. his high holiness made no move to rise when his prayer was done. it would seem they must confer upon their knees. a small man's ploy, she thought, amused. high holiness, she said, these sparrows are frightening the city. i want them gone. where should they go, your grace? there are seven hells, any one of them will serve. back where they came from, i would imagine. they came from everywhere. as the sparrow is the humblest and most common of the birds, they are the humblest and most common of men. they are common, we agree on that much. have you seen what they have done to blessed baelor's statue? they befoul the plaza with their pigs and goats and night soil. night soil can be washed away more easily than blood, your grace. if the plaza was befouled, it was befouled by the execution that was done here. he dares throw ned stark in my face? we all regret that. joffrey was young, and not as wise as he might have been. lord stark should have been beheaded elsewhere, out of respect for blessed baelor... but the man was a traitor, let us not forget. king baelor forgave those who conspired against him. king baelor imprisoned his own sisters, whose only crime was being beautiful. the first time cersei heard that tale, she had gone to tyrion's nursery and pinched the little monster till he cried. i should have pinched his nose shut and stuffed my sock into his mouth. she forced herself to smile. king tommen will forgive the sparrows too, once they have returned to their homes. most have lost their homes. suffering is everywhere... and grief, and death. before coming to king's landing, i tended to half a hundred little villages too small to have a septon of their own. i walked from each one to the next, performing marriages, absolving sinners of their sins, naming newborn children. those villages are no more, your grace. weeds and thorns grow where gardens once flourished, and bones litter the roadsides. war is a dreadful thing. these atrocities are the work of the northmen, and of lord stannis and his demon-worshipers. some of my sparrows speak of bands of lions who despoiled them... and of the hound, who was your own sworn man. at saltpans he slew an aged septon and despoiled a girl of twelve, an innocent child promised to the faith. he wore his armor as he raped her and her tender flesh was torn and crushed by his iron mail. when he was done he gave her to his men, who cut off her nose and nipples. his grace cannot be held responsible for the crimes of every man who ever served house lannister. sandor clegane is a traitor and a brute. why do you think i dismissed him from our service? he fights for the outlaw beric dondarrion now, not for king tommen. as you say. yet it must be asked — where were the king's knights when these things were being done? did not jaehaerys the conciliator once swear upon the iron throne itself that the crown would always protect and defend the faith? cersei had no idea what jaehaerys the conciliator might have sworn. he did, she agreed, and the high septon blessed him and anointed him as king. it is traditional for every new high septon to give the king his blessing... and yet you have refused to bless king tommen. your grace is mistaken. we have not refused. you have not come. the hour is not yet ripe. are you a priest or a greengrocer? and what might i do to make it... riper? if he dares mention gold, i will deal with this one as i did the last and find a pious eight-year-old to wear the crystal crown. the realm is full of kings. for the faith to exalt one above the rest we must be certain. three hundred years ago, when aegon the dragon landed beneath this very hill, the high septon locked himself within the starry sept of oldtown and prayed for seven days and seven nights, taking no nourishment but bread and water. when he emerged he announced that the faith would not oppose aegon and his sisters, for the crone had lifted up her lamp to show him what lay ahead. if oldtown took up arms against the dragon, oldtown would burn, and the hightower and the citadel and the starry sept would be cast down and destroyed. lord hightower was a godly man. when he heard the prophecy, he kept his strength at home and opened the city gates to aegon when he came. and his high holiness anointed the conqueror with the seven oils. i must do as he did, three hundred years ago. i must pray, and fast. for seven days and seven nights? for as long as need be. cersei itched to slap his solemn, pious face. i could help you fast, she thought. i could shut you up in some tower and see that no one brings you food until the gods have spoken. these false kings espouse false gods, she reminded him. only king tommen defends the holy faith. yet everywhere septs are burned and looted. even silent sisters have been raped, crying their anguish to the sky. your grace has seen the bones and skulls of our holy dead? i have, she had to say. give tommen your blessing, and he shall put an end to these outrages. and how shall he do that, your grace? will he send a knight to walk the roads with every begging brother? will he give us men to guard our septas against the wolves and lions? i will pretend you did not mention lions. the realm is at war. his grace has need of every man. cersei did not intend to squander tommen' s strength playing wet nurse to sparrows, or guarding the wrinkled cunts of a thousand sour septas. half of them are probably praying for a good raping. your sparrows have clubs and axes. let them defend themselves. king maegor's laws prohibit that, as your grace must know. it was by his decree that the faith laid down its swords. tommen is king now, not maegor. what did she care what maegor the cruel had decreed three hundred years ago? instead of taking the swords out of the hands of the faithful, he should have used them for his own ends. she pointed to where the warrior stood above his altar of red marble. what is that he holds? a sword. has he forgotten how to use it? maegor's laws —   — could be undone. she let that hang there, waiting for the high sparrow to rise to the bait. he did not disappoint her. the faith militant reborn... that would be the answer to three hundred years of prayer, your grace. the warrior would lift his shining sword again and cleanse this sinful realm of all its evil. if his grace were to allow me to restore the ancient blessed orders of the sword and star, every godly man in the seven kingdoms would know him to be our true and rightful lord. that was sweet to hear, but cersei took care not to seem too eager. your high holiness spoke of forgiveness earlier. in these troubled times, king tommen would be most grateful if you could see your way to forgiving the crown's debt. it seems to me we owe the faith some nine hundred thousand dragons. nine hundred thousand six hundred and seventy-four dragons. gold that could feed the hungry and rebuild a thousand septs. is it gold you want? the queen asked. or do you want these dusty laws of maegor's set aside? the high septon pondered that a moment. as you wish. this debt shall be forgiven, and king tommen will have his blessing. the warrior's sons shall escort me to him, shining in the glory of their faith, whilst my sparrows go forth to defend the meek and humble of the land, reborn as poor fellows as of old. the queen got to her feet and smoothed her skirts. i shall have the papers drawn up, and his grace will sign them and affix them with the royal seal. if there was one part of kingship that tommen loved, it was playing with his seal. seven save his grace. long may he reign. the high septon made a steeple of his hands and raised his eyes to heaven. let the wicked tremble! do you hear that, lord stannis? cersei could not help but smile. even her lord father could have done no better. at a stroke, she had rid king's landing of the plague of sparrows, secured tommen's blessing, and lessened the crown's debt by close to a million dragons. her heart was soaring as she allowed the high septon to escort her back to the hall of lamps. lady merryweather shared the queen's delight, though she had never heard of the warrior's sons or the poor fellows. they date from before aegon's conquest, cersei explained to her. the warrior's sons were an order of knights who gave up their lands and gold and swore their swords to his high holiness. the poor fellows... they were humbler, though far more numerous. begging brothers of a sort, though they carried axes instead of bowls. they wandered the roads, escorting travelers from sept to sept and town to town. their badge was the seven-pointed star, red on white, so the smallfolk named them stars. the warrior's sons wore rainbow cloaks and inlaid silver armor over hair shirts, and bore star-shaped crystals in the pommels of their longswords. they were the swords. holy men, ascetics, fanatics, sorcerers, dragonslayers, demonhunters... there were many tales about them. but all agree that they were implacable in their hatred for all enemies of the holy faith. lady merryweather understood at once. enemies such as lord stannis and his red sorceress, perhaps? why, yes, as it happens, said cersei, giggling like a girl. shall we broach a flagon of hippocras and drink to the fervor of the warrior's sons on our way home? to the fervor of the warrior's sons and the brilliance of the queen regent. to cersei, the first of her name! the hippocras was as sweet and savory as cersei' s triumph, and the queen's litter seemed almost to float back across the city. but at the base of aegon's high hill, they encountered margaery tyrell and her cousins returning from a ride. she dogs me everywhere i go, cersei thought with annoyance when she laid eyes on the little queen. behind margaery came a long tail of courtiers, guards, and servants, many of them laden with baskets of fresh flowers. each of her cousins had an admirer in thrall; the gangly squire alyn ambrose rode with elinor, to whom he was betrothed, ser tallad with shy alia, one-armed mark mullendore with megga, plump and laughing. the redwyne twins were escorting two of margaery's other ladies, meredyth crane and janna fossoway. the women all wore flowers in their hair. jalabhar xho had attached himself to the party too, as had ser lambert turnberry with his eye patch, and the handsome singer known as the blue bard. and of course a knight of the kingsguard must accompany the little queen, and of course it is the knight of flowers. in white scale armor chased with gold, ser loras glittered. though he no longer presumed to train tommen at arms, the king still spent far too much time in his company. every time the boy returned from an afternoon with his little wife, he had some new tale to tell about something that ser loras had said or done. margaery hailed them when the two columns met and fell in beside the queen's litter. her cheeks were flushed, her brown ringlets tumbling loosely about her shoulders, stirred by every puff of wind. we have been picking autumn flowers in the kingswood, she told them. i know where you were, the queen thought. her informers were very good about keeping her apprised of margaery's movements. such a restless girl, our little queen. she seldom let more than three days pass without going off for a ride. some days they would ride along the rosby road to hunt for shells and eat beside the sea. other times she would take her entourage across the river for an afternoon of hawking. the little queen was fond of going out on boats as well, sailing up and down the blackwater rush to no particular purpose. when she was feeling pious she would leave the castle to pray at baelor's sept. she gave her custom to a dozen different seamstresses, was well-known amongst the city's goldsmiths, and had even been known to visit the fish market by the mud gate for a look at the day's catch. wherever she went, the smallfolk fawned on her, and lady margaery did all she could to fan their ardor. she was forever giving alms to beggars, buying hot pies off bakers' carts, and reining up to speak to common tradesmen. had it been up to her, she would have had tommen doing all these things as well. she was forever inviting him to accompany her and her hens on their adventures, and the boy was forever pleading with his mother for leave to go along. the queen had given her consent a few times, if only to allow ser osney to spend a few more hours in margaery' s company. for all the good it has done. osney has proved a grievous disappointment. do you remember the day your sister sailed for dome? cersei asked her son. do you recall the mob howling on our way back to the castle? the stones, the curses? but the king was deaf to sense, thanks to his little queen. if we mingle with the commons, they will love us better. the mob loved the fat high septon so well they tore him limb from limb, and him a holy man, she reminded him. all it did was make him sullen with her. just as margaery wants, i wager. every day in every way she tries to steal him from me. joffrey would have seen through her schemer's smile and let her know her place, but tommen was more gullible. she knew joff was too strong for her, cersei thought, remembering the gold coin qyburn had found. for house tyrell to hope to rule, he had to be removed. it came back to her that margaery and her hideous grandmother had once plotted to marry sansa stark to the little queen's crippled brother willas. lord tywin had forestalled that by stealing a march on them and wedding sansa to tyrion, but the link had been there. they are all in it together, she realized with a start. the tyrells bribed the gaolers to free tyrion, and whisked him down the roseroad to join his vile bride. by now the both of them are safe in highgarden, hidden away behind a wall of roses. you should have come along with us, your grace, the little schemer prattled on as they climbed the slope of aegon's high hill. we could have had such a lovely time together. the trees are gowned in gold and red and orange, and there are flowers everywhere. chestnuts too. we roasted some on our way home. i have no time for riding through the woods and picking flowers, cersei said. i have a kingdom to rule. only one, your grace? who rules the other six? margaery laughed a merry little laugh. you will forgive me my jest, i hope. i know what a burden you bear. you should let me share the load. there must be some things i could do to help you. it would put to rest all this talk that you and i are rivals for the king. is that what they say? cersei smiled. how foolish. i have never looked upon you as a rival, not even for a moment. i am so pleased to hear that. the girl did not seem to realize that she had been cut. you and tommen must come with us the next time. i know his grace would love it. the blue bard played for us, and ser tallad showed us how to fight with a staff the way the smallfolk do. the woods are so beautiful in autumn. my late husband loved the forest too. in the early years of their marriage, robert was forever imploring her to hunt with him, but cersei had always begged off. his hunting trips allowed her time with jaime. golden days and silver nights. it was a dangerous dance that they had danced, to be sure. eyes and ears were everywhere within the red keep, and one could never be certain when robert would return. somehow the peril had only served to make their times together that much more thrilling. still, beauty can sometimes mask deadly danger, she warned the little queen. robert lost his life in the woods. margaery smiled at ser loras; a sweet sisterly smile, full of fondness. your grace is kind to fear for me, but my brother keeps me well protected. go and hunt, cersei had urged robert, half a hundred times. my brother keeps me well protected. she recalled what taena had told her earlier, and a laugh came bursting from her lips. your grace laughs so prettily. lady margaery gave her a quizzical smile. might we share the jest? you will, the queen said. i promise you, you will. a thousand ships! the little queen's brown hair was tousled and uncombed, and the torchlight made her cheeks look flushed, as if she had just come from some man's embrace. your grace, this must be answered fiercely! her last word rang off the rafters and echoed through the cavernous throne room. seated on her gold-and-crimson high seat beneath the iron throne, cersei could feel a growing tightness in her neck. must, she thought. she dares say must to me. she itched to slap the tyrell girl across the face. she should be on her knees, begging for my help. instead, she presumes to tell her rightful queen what she must do. a thousand ships? ser harys swyft was wheezing. surely not. no lord commands a thousand ships. some frightened fool has counted double, agreed orton merryweather. that, or lord tyrell's bannermen are lying to us, puffing up the numbers of the foe so we will not think them lax. the torches on the back wall threw the long, barbed shadow of the iron throne halfway to the doors. the far end of the hall was lost in darkness, and cersei could not but feel that the shadows were closing around her too. my enemies are everywhere, and my friends are useless. she had only to glance at her councillors to know that; only lord qyburn and aurane waters seemed awake. the others had been roused from bed by margaery's messengers pounding on their doors, and stood there rumpled and confused. outside the night was black and still. the castle and the city slept. boros blount and meryn trant seemed to be sleeping too, albeit on their feet. even osmund kettleblack was yawning. not loras, though. not our knight of flowers. he stood behind his little sister, a pale shadow with a longsword on his hip. half as many ships would still be five hundred, my lord, waters pointed out to orton merryweather. only the arbor has enough strength at sea to oppose a fleet that size. what of your new dromonds? asked ser harys. the longships of the ironmen cannot stand before our dromonds, surely? king robert's hammer is the mightiest warship in all westeros. she was, said waters. sweet cersei will be her equal, once complete, and lord tywin will be twice the size of either. only half are fitted out, however, and none is fully crewed. even when they are, the numbers would be greatly against us. the common longship is small compared to our galleys, this is true, but the ironmen have larger ships as well. lord balon's great kraken and the warships of the iron fleet were made for battle, not for raids. they are the equal of our lesser war galleys in speed and strength, and most are better crewed and captained. the ironmen live their whole lives at sea. robert should have scoured the isles after balon greyjoy rose against him, cersei thought. he smashed their fleet, burned their towns, and broke their castles, but when he had them on their knees he let them up again. he should have made another island of their skulls. that was what her father would have done, but robert never had the stomach that a king requires if he hopes to keep peace in the realm. the ironmen have not dared raid the reach since dagon greyjoy sat the seastone chair, she said. why would they do so now? what has emboldened them? their new king. qyburn stood with his hands hidden up his sleeves. lord balon's brother. the crow's eye, he is called. carrion crows make their feasts upon the carcasses of the dead and dying, said grand maester pycelle. they do not descend upon hale and healthy animals. lord euron will gorge himself on gold and plunder, aye, but as soon as we move against him he will back to pyke, as lord dagon was wont to do in his day. you are wrong, said margaery tyrell. reavers do not come in such strength. a thousand ships! lord hewett and lord chester are slain, as well as lord serry's son and heir. serry has fled to highgarden with what few ships remain him, and lord grimm is a prisoner in his own castle. willas says that the iron king has raised up four lords of his own in their places. willas, cersei thought, the cripple. he is to blame for this. that oaf mace tyrell left the defense of the reach in the hands of a hapless weakling. it is a long voyage from the iron isles to the shields, she pointed out. how could a thousand ships come all that way without being seen? willas believes that they did not follow the coast, said margaery. they made the voyage out of sight of land, sailing far out into the sunset sea and swooping back in from the west. more like the cripple did not have his watchtowers manned, and now he fears to have us know it. the little queen is making excuses for her brother. cersei' s mouth was dry. i need a cup of arbor gold. if the ironmen decided to take the arbor next, the whole realm might soon be going thirsty. stannis may have had a hand in this. balon greyjoy offered my lord father an alliance. perhaps his son has offered one to stannis. pycelle frowned. what would lord stannis gain by... he gains another foothold. and plunder, that as well. stannis needs gold to pay his sellswords. by raiding in the west, he hopes he can distract us from dragonstone and storm's end. lord merryweather nodded. a diversion. stannis is more cunning than we knew. your grace is clever to have seen through his ploy. lord stannis is striving to win the northmen to his cause, said pycelle. if he befriends the ironborn, he cannot hope... the northmen will not have him, said cersei, wondering how such a learned man could be so stupid. lord manderly hacked the head and hands off the onion knight, we have that from the freys, and half a dozen other northern lords have rallied to lord bolton. the enemy of my enemy is my friend. where else can stannis turn, but to the ironmen and the wildlings, the enemies of the north? but if he thinks that i am going to walk into his trap, he is a bigger fool than you. she turned back to the little queen. the shield islands belong to the reach. grimm and serry and the rest are sworn to highgarden. it is for highgarden to answer this. highgarden shall answer, said margaery tyrell. willas has sent word to leyton hightower in oldtown, so he can see to his own defenses. garlan is gathering men to retake the isles. the best part of our power remains with my lord father, though. we must send word to him at storm's end. at once. and lift the siege? cersei did not care for margaery's presumption. she says at once to me. does she take me for her handmaid? i have no doubt that lord stannis would be pleased by that. have you been listening, my lady? if he can draw our eyes away from dragonstone and storm's end to these rocks... rocks? gasped margaery. did your grace say rocks? the knight of flowers put a hand upon his sister's shoulder. if it please your grace, from those rocks the ironmen threaten oldtown and the arbor. from strongholds on the shields, raiders can sail up the mander into the very heart of the reach, as they did of old. with enough men they might even threaten highgarden. truly? said the queen, all innocence. why then, your brave brothers had best roust them off those rocks, and quickly. how would the queen suggest they accomplish that, without sufficient ships? asked ser loras. willas and garlan can raise ten thousand men within a fortnight and twice that in a moon's turn, but they cannot walk on water, your grace. highgarden sits above the mander, cersei reminded him. you and your vassals command a thousand leagues of coast. are there no fisherfolk along your shores? do you have no pleasure barges, no ferries, no river galleys, no skiffs? many and more, ser loras admitted. such should be more than sufficient to carry a host across a little stretch of water, i would think. and when the longships of the ironborn descend upon our ragtag fleet as it is making its way across this'little stretch of water,' what would your grace have us do then? drown, thought cersei. highgarden has gold as well. you have my leave to hire sellsails from beyond the narrow sea. pirates out of myr and lys, you mean? loras said with contempt. the scum of the free cities? he is as insolent as his sister. sad to say, all of us must deal with scum from time to time, she said with poisonous sweetness. perhaps you have a better notion? only the arbor has sufficient galleys to retake the mouth of the mander from the ironmen and protect my brothers from their longships during their crossing. i beg your grace, send word to dragonstone and command lord redwyne to raise his sails at once. at least he has the sense to beg. paxter redwyne owned two hundred warships, and five times as many merchant carracks, wine cogs, trading galleys, and whalers. redwyne was encamped beneath the walls of dragonstone, however, and the greater part of his fleet was engaged in ferrying men across blackwater bay for the assault on that island stronghold. the remainder prowled shipbreaker bay to the south, where only their presence prevented storm's end from being resupplied by sea. aurane waters bristled at ser loras's suggestion. if lord redwyne sails his ships away, how are we to supply our men on dragonstone? without the arbor's galleys, how will we maintain the siege of storm's end? the siege can be resumed later, after —  cersei cut him off. storm's end is a hundred times more valuable than the shields, and dragonstone... so long as dragonstone remains in the hands of stannis baratheon, it is a knife at my son's throat. we will release lord redwyne and his fleet when the castle falls. the queen pushed herself to her feet. this audience is at an end. grand maester pycelle, a word. the old man started, as if her voice had woken him from some dream of youth, but before he could answer, loras tyrell strode forward, so swiftly that the queen drew back in alarm. she was about to shout for ser osmund to defend her when the knight of flowers sank to one knee. your grace, let me take dragonstone. his sister's hand went to her mouth. loras, no. ser loras ignored her plea. it will take half a year or more to starve dragonstone into submission, as lord paxter means to do. give me the command, your grace. the castle will be yours within a fortnight if i have to tear it down with my bare hands. no one had given cersei such a lovely gift since sansa stark had run to her to divulge lord eddard's plans. she was pleased to see that margaery had gone pale. your courage takes my breath away, ser loras, cersei said. lord waters, are any of the new dromonds fit to put to sea? sweet cersei is, your grace. a swift ship, and as strong as the queen she's named for. splendid. let sweet cersei carry our knight of flowers to dragonstone at once. ser loras, the command is yours. swear to me that you shall not return until dragonstone is tommen's. i shall, your grace. he rose. cersei kissed him on both cheeks. she kissed his sister too, and whispered, you have a gallant brother. either margaery did not have the grace to answer or fear had stolen all her words. dawn was still several hours away when cersei slipped out the king's door behind the iron throne. ser osmund went before her with a torch and qyburn strolled along beside her. pycelle had to struggle to keep up. if it please your grace, he puffed, young men are overbold, and think only of the glory of battle and never of its dangers. ser loras... this plan of his is fraught with peril. to storm the very walls of dragonstone... ... is very brave. ... brave, yes, but... i have no doubt that our knight of flowers will be the first man to gain the battlements. and perhaps the first to fall. the pox-scarred bastard that stannis had left to hold his castle was no callow tourney champion but a seasoned killer. if the gods were good, he would give ser loras the glorious end he seemed to want. assuming the boy does not drown on the way. there had been another storm last night, a savage one. the rain had come down in black sheets for hours. and wouldn't that be sad? the queen mused. drowning is ordinary. ser loras lusts for glory as real men lust for women, the least the gods can do is grant him a death worthy of a song. no matter what befell the boy on dragonstone, however, the queen would be the winner. if loras took the castle, stannis would suffer a grievous blow, and the redwyne fleet could sail off to meet the ironmen. if he failed, she would see to it that he had the lion's share of the blame. nothing tarnishes a hero as much as failure. and if he should come home on his shield, covered in blood and glory, ser osney will be there to console his grieving sister. the laugh would not be contained any longer. it burst from cersei's lips, and echoed down the hall. your grace? grand maester pycelle blinked, his mouth sagging open. why... why would you laugh? why, she had to say, elsewise i might weep. my heart is bursting with love for our ser loras and his valor. she left the grand maester on the serpentine steps. that one has outlived any usefulness he ever had, the queen decided. all pycelle ever seemed to do of late was plague her with cautions and objections. he had even objected to the understanding she had reached with the high septon, gaping at her with dim and rheumy eyes when she commanded him to prepare the necessary papers and babbling about old dead history until cersei cut him off. king maegor's day is done, and so are his decrees, she said firmly. this is king tommen's day, and mine. i would have done better to let him perish in the black cells. should ser loras fall, your grace will need to find another worthy for the kingsguard, lord qyburn said as they crossed over the spiked moat that girded maegor's holdfast. someone splendid, she agreed. someone so young and swift and strong that tommen will forget all about ser loras. a bit of gallantry would not be amiss, but his head should not be full of foolish notions. do you know of such a man? alas, no, said qyburn. i had another sort of champion in mind. what he lacks in gallantry he will give you tenfold in devotion. he will protect your son, kill your enemies, and keep your secrets, and no living man will be able to withstand him. so you say. words are wind. when the hour is ripe, you may produce this paragon of yours and we will see if he is all that you have promised. they will sing of him, i swear it. lord qyburn' s eyes crinkled with amusement. might i ask about the armor? i have placed your order. the armorer thinks that i am mad. he assures me that no man is strong enough to move and fight in such a weight of plate. cersei gave the chainless maester a warning look. play me for a fool, and you'll die screaming. you are aware of that, i trust? always, your grace. good. say no more of this. the queen is wise. these walls have ears. so they do. at night cersei sometimes heard soft sounds, even in her own apartments. mice in the walls, she would tell herself, no more than that. a candle was burning by her bedside, but the hearthfire had gone out and there was no other light. the room was cold as well. cersei undressed and slipped beneath the blankets, leaving her gown to puddle on the floor. across the bed, taena stirred. your grace, she murmured softly. what hour is it? the hour of the owl, the queen replied. though cersei often slept alone, she had never liked it. her oldest memories were of sharing a bed with jaime, when they had still been so young that no one could tell the two of them apart. later, after they were separated, she'd had a string of bedmaids and companions, most of them girls of an age with her, the daughters of her father's household knights and bannermen. none had pleased her, and few lasted very long. little sneaks, the lot of them. vapid, weepy creatures, always telling tales and trying to worm their way between me and jaime. still, there had been nights deep within the black bowels of the rock when she had welcomed their warmth beside her. an empty bed was a cold bed. here most of all. there were chills in this room, and her wretched royal husband had died beneath this canopy. robert baratheon, the first of his name, may there never be a second. a dim, drunken brute of a man. let him weep in hell. taena warmed the bed as well as robert ever had, and never tried to force cersei' s legs apart. of late she had shared the queen's bed more often than lord merryweather's. orton did not seem to mind... or if he did, he knew better than to say so. i was concerned when i woke and found you gone, murmured lady merryweather, sitting up against the pillows, the coverlets tangled about her waist. is aught amiss? no, said cersei, all is well. on the morrow ser loras will sail for dragonstone, to win the castle, loose the redwyne fleet, and prove his manhood to us all. she told the myrish woman all that had occurred beneath the shifting shadow of the iron throne. without her valiant brother, our little queen is next to naked. she has her guards, to be sure, but i have their captain here and there about the castle. a garrulous old man with a squirrel on his surcoat. squirrels run from lions. he does not have it in him to defy the iron throne. margaery has other swords about her, cautioned lady merryweather. she has made many friends about the court, and she and her young cousins all have admirers. a few suitors do not concern me, cersei said. the army at storm's end, however... what do you mean to do, your grace? why do you ask? the question was a little too pointed for cersei's taste. i do hope you are not thinking of sharing my idle musings with our poor little queen? never. i am not that girl senelle. cersei did not care to think about senelle. she repaid my kindness with betrayal. sansa stark had done the same. so had melara hetherspoon and fat jeyne farman when the three of them were girls. i would never have gone into that tent if not for them. i would never have allowed maggy the frog to taste my morrows in a drop of blood. i would be very sad if you ever betrayed my trust, taena. i would have no choice but to give you to lord qyburn, but i know that i should weep. i will never give you cause to weep, your grace. if i do, say the word, and i will give myself to qyburn. i want only to be close to you. to serve you, however you require. and for this service, what reward will you expect? nothing. it pleases me to please you. taena rolled onto her side, her olive skin shining in the candlelight. her breasts were larger than the queen's and tipped with huge nipples, black as horn. she is younger than i am. her breasts have not begun to sag. cersei wondered what it would feel like to kiss another woman. not lightly on the cheek, as was common courtesy amongst ladies of high birth, but full upon the lips. taena's lips were very full. she wondered what it would feel like to suckle on those breasts, to lay the myrish woman on her back and push her legs apart and use her as a man would use her, the way robert would use her when the drink was in him, and she was unable to bring him off with hand or mouth. those had been the worst nights, lying helpless underneath him as he took his pleasure, stinking of wine and grunting like a boar. usually he rolled off and went to sleep as soon as it was done, and was snoring before his seed could dry upon her thighs. she was always sore afterward, raw between the legs, her breasts painful from the mauling he would give them. the only time he'd ever made her wet was on their wedding night. robert had been handsome enough when they first married, tall and strong and powerful, but his hair was black and heavy, thick on his chest and coarse around his sex. the wrong man came back from the trident, the queen would sometimes think as he was plowing her. in the first few years, when he mounted her more often, she would close her eyes and pretend that he was rhaegar. she could not pretend that he was jaime; he was too different, too unfamiliar. even the smell of him was wrong. for robert, those nights never happened. come morning he remembered nothing, or so he would have had her believe. once, during the first year of their marriage, cersei had voiced her displeasure the next day. you hurt me, she complained. he had the grace to look ashamed. it was not me, my lady, he said in a sulky sullen tone, like a child caught stealing apple cakes from the kitchen. it was the wine. i drink too much wine. to wash down his admission, he reached for his horn of ale. as he raised it to his mouth, she smashed her own horn in his face, so hard she chipped a tooth. years later at a feast, she heard him telling a serving wench how he'd cracked the tooth in a melee. well, our marriage was a melee, she reflected, so he did not lie. the rest had all been lies, though. he did remember what he did to her at night, she was convinced of that. she could see it in his eyes. he only pretended to forget; it was easier to do that than to face his shame. deep down robert baratheon was a coward. in time the assaults did grow less frequent. during the first year he took her at least once a fortnight; by the end it was not even once a year. he never stopped completely, though. sooner or later there would always come a night when he would drink too much and want to claim his rights. what shamed him in the light of day gave him pleasure in the darkness. my queen? said taena merryweather. you have a strange look in your eyes. are you unwell? i was just... remembering. her throat was dry. you are a good friend, taena. i have not had a true friend in... someone hammered at the door. again? the urgency of the sound made her shiver. have another thousand ships descended on us? she slipped into a bedrobe and went to see who it was. beg pardon for disturbing you, your grace, the guardsman said, but lady stokeworth is below, begging audience. at this hour? snapped cersei. has falyse lost her wits? tell her i have retired. tell her that smallfolk on the shields are being slaughtered. tell her that i have been awake for half the night. i will see her on the morrow. the guard hesitated. if it please your grace, she's... she's not in a good way, if you take my meaning. cersei frowned. she had assumed falyse was here to tell her that bronn was dead. very well. i shall need to dress. take her to my solar and have her wait. when lady merryweather made to rise and come with her, the queen demurred. no, stay. one of us should get some rest, at least. i shan't be long. lady falyse's face was bruised and swollen, her eyes red from her tears. her lower lip was broken, her clothing soiled and torn. gods be good, cersei said as she ushered her into the solar and closed the door. what has happened to your face? falyse did not seem to hear the question. he killed him, she said in a quavery voice. mother have mercy, he... he... she broke down sobbing, her whole body trembling. cersei poured a cup of wine and took it to the weeping woman. drink this. the wine will calm you. that's it. a little more now. stop that weeping and tell me why you're here. it took the rest of the flagon before the queen was finally able to coax the whole sad tale out of lady falyse. once she had, she did not know whether to laugh or rage. single combat, she repeated. is there no one in the seven kingdoms that i can rely upon? am i the only one in westeros with a pinch of wits? you are telling me ser balman challenged bronn to single combat? he said it would be s-s-simple. the lance is a kn-knight's weapon, he said, and b-bronn was no true knight. balman said he would unhorse him and finish him as he lay st-st-stunned. bronn was no knight, that was true. bronn was a battle-hardened killer. your cretin of a husband wrote his own death warrant. a splendid plan. dare i ask how it went awry? b-bronn drove his lance through the chest of balman' s poor h-h-h- horse. balman, he... his legs were crushed when the beast fell. he screamed so piteous ly... sellswords have no pity, cersei might have said. i asked you to arrange a hunting mishap. an arrow gone astray, a fall from a horse, an angry boar... there are so many ways a man can die in the woods. none of them involving lances. falyse did not seem to hear her. when i tried to run to my balman, he, he, he struck me in the face. he made my lord c-c-confess. balman was crying out for maester frenken to attend him, but the sellsword, he, he, he... confess? cersei did not like that word. i trust our brave ser balman held his tongue. bronn put a dagger in his eye, and told me i had best be gone from stokeworth before the sun went down or i'd get the same. he said he'd pass me around to the g-g-garrison, if any of them would have me. when i ordered bronn seized, one of his knights had the insolence to say that i should do as lord stokeworth said. he called him lord stokeworth! lady falyse clutched at the queen's hand. your grace must give me knights. a hundred knights! and crossbowmen, to take my castle back. stokeworth is mine! they would not even permit me to gather up my clothes! bronn said they were his wife's clothes now, all my s-silks and velvets. your rags are the least of your concern. the queen pulled her fingers free of the other woman's clammy grasp. i asked you to snuff out a candle to help protect the king. instead you heaved a pot of wildfire at it. did your witless balman bring my name into this? tell me he did not. falyse licked her lips. he... he was in pain, his legs were broken. bronn said he would show him mercy, but... what will happen to my poor m-m-mother? i imagine she will die. what do you think? lady tanda might well be dead already. bronn did not seem the sort of man who would expend much effort nursing an old woman with a broken hip. you have to help me. where am i to go? what will i do? perhaps you might wed moon boy, cersei almost said. he is nigh as big a fool as your late husband. she could not risk a war on the very doorstep of king's landing, not now. the silent sisters are always glad to welcome widows, she said. theirs is a serene life, a life of prayer and contemplation and good works. they bring solace to the living and peace to the dead. and they do not talk. she could not have the woman running about the seven kingdoms spreading dangerous tales. falyse was deaf to good sense. all we did, we did in service to your grace. proud to be faithful. you said... i recall. cersei forced a smile. you shall stay here with us, my lady, until such time as we find a way to win your castle back. let me pour you another cup of wine. it will help you sleep. you are weary and sick of heart, that's plain to see. my poor dear falyse. that's it, drink up. as her guest was working on the flagon, cersei went to the door and called her maids. she told dorcas to find lord qyburn for her and bring him here at once. jocelyn swyft she dispatched to the kitchens. bring bread and cheese, a meat pie and some apples. and wine. we have a thirst. qyburn arrived before the food. lady falyse had put down three more cups by then, and was beginning to nod, though from time to time she would rouse and give another sob. the queen took qyburn aside and told him of ser balman's folly. i cannot have falyse spreading tales about the city. her grief has made her witless. do you still need women for your... work? i do, your grace. the puppeteers are quite used up. take her and do with her as you will, then. but once she goes down into the black cells... need i say more? no, your grace. i understand. good. the queen donned her smile once again. sweet falyse, maester qyburn's here. he'll help you rest. oh, said falyse vaguely. oh, good. when the door closed behind them cersei poured herself another cup of wine. i am surrounded by enemies and imbeciles, she said. she could not even trust to her own blood and kin, nor jaime, who had once been her other half. he was meant to be my sword and shield, my strong right arm. why does he insist on vexing me? bronn was no more than an annoyance, to be sure. she had never truly believed that he was harboring the imp. her twisted little brother was too clever to allow lollys to name her wretched ill-begotten bastard after him, knowing it was sure to draw the queen's wroth down upon her. lady merryweather had pointed that out, and she was right. the mockery was almost certainly the sellsword's doing. she could picture him watching his wrinkled red stepson sucking on one of lollys's swollen dugs, a cup of wine in his hand and an insolent smile on his face. grin all you wish, ser bronn, you'll be screaming soon enough. enjoy your lackwit lady and your stolen castle whilst you can. when the time comes, i shall swat you as if you were a fly. perhaps she would send loras tyrell to do the swatting, if the knight of flowers should somehow return alive from dragonstone. that would be delicious. if the gods were good, each of them would kill the other, like ser arryk and ser erryk. as for stokeworth... no, she was sick of thinking about stokeworth. taena had drifted back to sleep by the time the queen returned to the bedchamber, her head spinning. too much wine and too little sleep, she told herself. it was not every night that she was awakened twice with such desperate tidings. at least i could awaken. robert would have been too drunk to rise, let alone rule. it would have fallen to jon arryn to deal with all of this. it pleased her to think that she made a better king than robert. the sky outside the window was already beginning to lighten. cersei sat on the bed beside lady merryweather, listening to her soft breathing, watching her breasts rise and fall. does she dream of myr? she wondered. or is it her lover with the scar, the dangerous dark-haired man who would not be refused? she was quite certain taena was not dreaming of lord orton. cersei cupped the other woman's breast. softly at first, hardly touching, feeling the warmth of it beneath her palm, the skin as smooth as satin. she gave it a gentle squeeze, then ran her thumbnail lightly across the big dark nipple, back and forth and back and forth until she felt it stiffen. when she glanced up, taena' s eyes were open. does that feel good? she asked. yes, said lady merryweather. and this? cersei pinched the nipple now, pulling on it hard, twisting it between her fingers. the myrish woman gave a gasp of pain. you're hurting me. it's just the wine. i had a flagon with my supper, and another with the widow stokeworth. i had to drink to keep her calm. she twisted taena' s other nipple too, pulling until the other woman gasped. i am the queen. i mean to claim my rights. do what you will. taena's hair was as black as robert's, even down between her legs, and when cersei touched her there she found her hair all sopping wet, where robert's had been coarse and dry. please, the myrish woman said, go on, my queen. do as you will with me. i'm yours. but it was no good. she could not feel it, whatever robert felt on the nights he took her. there was no pleasure in it, not for her. for taena, yes. her nipples were two black diamonds, her sex slick and steamy. robert would have loved you, for an hour. the queen slid a finger into that myrish swamp, then another, moving them in and out, but once he spent himself inside you, he would have been hard-pressed to recall your name. she wanted to see if it would be as easy with a woman as it had always been with robert. ten thousand of your children perished in my palm, your grace, she thought, slipping a third finger into myr. whilst you snored, i would lick your sons off my face and fingers one by one, all those pale sticky princes. you claimed your rights, my lord, but in the darkness i would eat your heirs. taena gave a shudder. she gasped some words in a foreign tongue, then shuddered again and arched her back and screamed. she sounds as if she is being gored, the queen thought. for a moment she let herself imagine that her fingers were a bore's tusks, ripping the myrish woman apart from groin to throat. it was still no good. it had never been any good with anyone but jaime. when she tried to take her hand away, taena caught it and kissed her fingers. sweet queen, how shall i pleasure you? she slid her hand down cersei's side and touched her sex. tell me what you would have of me, my love. leave me. cersei rolled away and pulled up the bedclothes to cover herself, shivering. dawn was breaking. it would be morning soon, and all of this would be forgotten. it had never happened. the day had been cold and grey and wet. it had poured all morning, and even when the rain stopped that afternoon the clouds refused to part. they never saw the sun. such wretched weather was enough to discourage even the little queen. instead of riding with her hens and their retinue of guardsmen and admirers, she spent all day in the maidenvault with her hens, listening to the blue bard sing. cersei's own day was little better, till evenfall. as the grey sky began to fade to black, they told her that the sweet cersei had come in on the evening tide, and that aurane waters was without, begging audience. the queen sent for him at once. as soon as he strode into her solar, she knew his tidings were good. your grace, he said with a broad smile, dragonstone is yours. how splendid. she took his hands and kissed him on the cheeks. i know tommen will be pleased as well. this will mean that we can release lord redwyne's fleet, and drive the ironmen from the shields. the news from the reach seemed to grow more dire with every raven. the ironmen had not been content with their new rocks, it seemed. they were raiding up the mander in strength, and had gone so far as to attack the arbor and the smaller islands that surrounded it. the redwynes had kept no more than a dozen warships in their home waters, and all those had been overwhelmed, taken, or sunk. and now there were reports that this madman who called himself euron crow's eye was even sending longships up whispering sound toward oldtown. lord paxter was taking on provisions for the voyage home when sweet cersei raised sail, lord waters reported. i would imagine that by now his main fleet has put to sea. let us hope they enjoy a swift voyage, and better weather than today. the queen drew waters down into the window seat beside her. do we have ser loras to thank for this triumph? his smile vanished. some will say so, your grace. some? she gave him a quizzical look. not you? i never saw a braver knight, waters said, but he turned what could have been a bloodless victory into a slaughter. a thousand men are dead, or near enough to make no matter. most of them our own. and not just common men, your grace, but knights and young lords, the best and the bravest. and ser loras himself? he will make a thousand and one. they carried him inside the castle after the battle, but his wounds are grievous. he has lost so much blood that the maesters will not even leech him. oh, how sad. tommen will be heartbroken. he did so admire our gallant knight of flowers. the smallfolk too, her admiral said. we'll have maidens weeping into their wine all across the realm when loras dies. he was not wrong, the queen knew. three thousand smallfolk had crowded through the mud gate to see ser loras off the day he sailed, and three of every four were women. the sight had only served to fill her with contempt. she had wanted to scream at them that they were sheep, to tell them that all that they could ever hope to get from loras tyrell was a smile and a flower. instead she had proclaimed him the boldest knight in the seven kingdoms, and smiled as tommen presented him with a jeweled sword to carry into battle. the king had given him a hug as well, which had not been part of cersei's plans, but it made no matter now. she could afford to be generous. loras tyrell was dying. tell me, cersei commanded. i want to know all of it, from the beginning to the end. the room had grown dark by the time that he was done. the queen lit some candles and sent dorcas to the kitchens to bring them up some bread and cheese and a bit of boiled beef with horseradish. as they supped, she bid aurane to tell the tale again, so she would remember all the details correctly. i do not want our precious margaery to hear these tidings from a stranger, after all, she said. i will tell her myself. your grace is kind, said waters with a smile. a wicked smile, the queen thought. aurane did not resemble prince rhaegar as much as she had thought. he has the hair, but so do half the whores in lys, if the tales are true. rhaegar was a man. this is a sly boy, no more. useful in his way, though. margaery was in the maidenvault, sipping wine and trying to puzzle out some new game from volantis with her three cousins. though the hour was late, the guards admitted cersei at once. your grace, she began, it is best you hear the news from me. aurane is back from dragonstone. your brother is a hero. i always knew he was. margaery did not seem surprised. why should she? she expected this, from the moment loras begged for the command. yet by the time cersei had finished with her tale, tears glistened on the cheeks of the younger queen. redwyne had miners working to drive a tunnel underneath the castle walls, but that was too slow for the knight of flowers. no doubt he was thinking of your lord father's people suffering on the shields. lord waters says he ordered the assault not half a day after taking command, after lord stannis's castellan refused his offer to settle the siege between them in single combat. loras was the first one through the breach when the ram broke the castle gates. he rode straight into the dragon's mouth, they say, all in white and swinging his morningstar about his head, slaying left and right. megga tyrell was sobbing openly by then. how did he die? she asked. who killed him? no one man has that honor, said cersei. ser loras took a quarrel through the thigh and another through the shoulder, but he fought on gallantly, though the blood was streaming from him. later he suffered a mace blow that broke some ribs. after that... but no, i would spare you the worst of it. tell me, said margaery. i command it. command it? cersei paused a moment, then decided she would let that pass. the defenders fell back to an inner keep once the curtain wall was taken. loras led the attack there as well. he was doused with boiling oil. lady alia turned white as chalk, and ran from the room. the maesters are doing all they can, lord waters assures me, but i fear your brother is too badly burned. cersei took margaery in her arms to comfort her. he saved the realm. when she kissed the little queen upon the cheek, she could taste the salt of her tears. jaime will enter all his deeds in the white book, and the singers will sing of him for a thousand years. margaery wrenched free of her embrace, so violently that cersei almost fell. dying is not dead, she said. no, but the maesters say —  dying is not dead! i only want to spare you —  i know what you want. get out. now you know how i felt, the night my joffrey died. she bowed, her face a mask of cool courtesy. sweet daughter. i am so sad for you. i will leave you with your grief. lady merryweather did not appear that night, and cersei found herself too restless to sleep. if lord tywin could see me now, he would know he had his heir, an heir worthy of the rock, she thought as she lay abed with jocelyn swyft snoring softly into the other pillow. margaery would soon be weeping the bitter tears she should have wept for joffrey. mace tyrell might weep as well, but she had given him no cause to break with her. what had she done, after all, but honor loras with her trust? he had requested the command on bended knee whilst half her court looked on. when he dies i must raise a statue of him somewhere, and give him a funeral such as king's landing has never seen. the smallfolk would like that. so would tommen. mace may even thank me, poor man. as for his lady mother, if the gods are good this news will kill her. the sunrise was the prettiest that cersei had seen in years. taena appeared soon thereafter, and confessed to having spent the night consoling margaery and her ladies, drinking wine and crying and telling tales of loras. margaery is still convinced he will not die, she reported, as the queen was dressed for court. she plans to send her own maester to look after him. the cousins are praying for the mother's mercy. i shall pray as well. on the morrow, come with me to baelor's sept, and we will light a hundred candles for our gallant knight of flowers. she turned to her handmaid. dorcas, bring my crown. the new one, if you please. it was lighter than the old, pale spun gold set with emeralds that sparkled when she turned her head. there are four come about the imp this morning, ser osmund said, when jocelyn admitted him. four? the queen was pleasantly surprised. a steady stream of informers had been making their way to the red keep, claiming knowledge of tyrion, but four in one day was unusual. aye, said osmund. one brought a head for you. i will see him first. bring him to my solar. this time, let there be no mistakes. let me be avenged at long last, so joff can rest in peace. the septons said that the number seven was sacred to the gods. if so, perhaps this seventh head would bring her the balm her soul desired. the man proved to be tyroshi; short and stout and sweaty, with an unctuous smile that reminded her of varys and a forked beard dyed green and pink. cersei misliked him on sight, but was willing to overlook his flaws if he actually had tyrion' s head inside the chest he carried. it was cedar, inlaid with ivory in a pattern of vines and flowers, with hinges and clasps of white gold. a lovely thing, but the queen's only interest lay in what might be within. it is big enough, at least. tyrion had a grotesquely large head, for one so small and stunted. your grace, the tyroshi murmured, bowing low, i see you are as lovely as the tales. even beyond the narrow sea we have heard of your great beauty, and the grief that tears your gentle heart. no man can restore your brave young son to you, but it is my hope i can at least offer you some balm for your pain. he laid his hand upon his chest. i bring you justice. i bring you the head of your valonqar. the old valyrian word sent a chill through her, though it also gave her a tingle of hope. the imp is no longer my brother, if he ever was, she declared. nor will i say his name. it was a proud name once, before he dishonored it. in tyrosh we name him redhands, for the blood running from his fingers. a king's blood, and a father's. some say he slew his mother too, ripping his way from her womb with savage claws. what nonsense, cersei thought.'tis true, she said. if the imp's head is in that chest, i shall raise you to lordship and grant you rich lands and keeps. titles were cheaper than dirt, and the riverlands were full of ruined castles, standing desolate amidst untended fields and burned villages. my court awaits. open the box and let us see. the tyroshi threw open the box with a flourish, and stepped back smiling. within, the head of a dwarf reposed upon a bed of soft blue velvet, staring up at her. cersei took a long look. that is not my brother. there was a sour taste in her mouth. i suppose it was too much to hope for, especially after loras. the gods are never that good. this man has brown eyes. tyrion had one black eye and one green. the eyes, just so... your grace, your brother's own eyes had... somewhat decayed. i took the liberty of replacing them with glass... but of the wrong color, as you say. that only annoyed her further. your head may have glass eyes, but i do not. there are gargoyles on dragonstone that look more like the imp than this creature. he's bald, and twice my brother's age. what happened to his teeth? the man shrank before the fury in her voice. he had a fine set of gold teeth, your grace, but we... i regret... oh, not yet. but you will. i ought to have him strangled. let him gasp for breath until his face turns black, the way my sweet son did. the words were on her lips. an honest mistake. one dwarf looks so much like another, and... your grace will observe, he has no nose... he has no nose because you cut it off. no! the sweat on his brow gave the lie to his denial. yes. a poisonous sweetness crept into cersei's tone. at least you had that much sense. the last fool tried to tell me that a hedge wizard had regrown it. still, it seems to me that you owe this dwarf a nose. house lannister pays its debts, and so shall you. ser meryn, take this fraud to qyburn. ser meryn trant took the tyroshi by the arm and hauled him off, still protesting. when they were gone, cersei turned to osmund kettleblack. ser osmund, get this thing out of my sight, and bring in the other three who claim knowledge of the imp. aye, your grace. sad to say, the three would-be informers proved no more useful than the tyroshi. one said that the imp was hiding in an oldtown brothel, pleasuring men with his mouth. it made for a droll picture, but cersei did not believe it for an instant. the second claimed to have seen the dwarf in a mummer's show in braavos. the third insisted tyrion had become a hermit in the riverlands, living on some haunted hill. the queen made the same response to each. if you will be so good as to lead some of my brave knights to this dwarf, you shall be richly rewarded, she promised. provided that it is the imp. if not... well, my knights have little patience for deception, nor fools who send them chasing after shadows. a man could lose his tongue. and quick as that, all three informers suddenly lost faith, and allowed that perhaps it might have been some other dwarf they saw. cersei had never realized there were so many dwarfs. is the whole world overrun with these twisted little monsters? she complained, whilst the last of the informers was being ushered out. how many of them can there be? fewer than there were, said lady merryweather. may i have the honor of accompanying your grace to court? if you can bear the tedium, said cersei. robert was a fool about most things, but he was right in one regard. it is wearisome work to rule a kingdom. it saddens me to see your grace so careworn. i say, run off and play and leave the king's hand to hear these tiresome petitions. we could dress as serving girls and spend the day amongst the smallfolk, to hear what they are saying of the fall of dragonstone. i know the inn where the blue bard plays when he is not singing attendance on the little queen, and a certain cellar where a conjurer turns lead into gold, water into wine, and girls into boys. perhaps he would work his spells on the two of us. would it amuse your grace to be a man one night? if i were a man i would be jaime, the queen thought. if i were a man i could rule this realm in my own name in place of tommen's. only if you remained a woman, she said, knowing that was what taena wanted to hear. you are a wicked thing to tempt me so, but what sort of queen would i be if i put my realm in the trembling hands of harys swyft? taena pouted. your grace is too diligent. i am, cersei allowed, and by day's end i shall rue it. she slipped her arm through lady merryweather's. come. jalabhar xho was the first to petition her that day, as befit his rank as a prince in exile. splendid as he looked in his bright feathered cloak, he had only come to beg. cersei let him make his usual plea for men and arms to help him regain red flower vale, then said, his grace is fighting his own war, prince jalabhar. he has no men to spare for yours just now. next year, perhaps. that was what robert always told him. next year she would tell him never, but not today. dragonstone was hers. lord hallyne of the guild of alchemists presented himself, to ask that his pyromancers be allowed to hatch any dragon's eggs that might turn up upon dragonstone, now that the isle was safely back in royal hands. if any such eggs remained, stannis would have sold them to pay for his rebellion, the queen told him. she refrained from saying that the plan was mad. ever since the last targaryen dragon had died, all such attempts had ended in death, disaster, or disgrace. a group of merchants appeared before her to beg the throne to intercede for them with the iron bank of braavos. the braavosi were demanding repayment of their outstanding debts, it seemed, and refusing all new loans. we need our own bank, cersei decided, the golden bank of lannisport. perhaps when tommen's throne was secure, she could make that happen. for the nonce, all she could do was tell the merchants to pay the braavosi usurers their due. the delegation from the faith was headed by her old friend septon raynard. six of the warrior's sons escorted him across the city; together they were seven, a holy and propitious number. the new high septon — or high sparrow, as moon boy had dubbed him — did everything by sevens. the knights wore swordbelts striped in the seven colors of the faith. crystals adorned the pommels of their longswords and the crests of their greathelms. they carried kite shields of a style not common since the conquest, displaying a device not seen in the seven kingdoms for centuries: a rainbow sword shining bright upon a field of darkness. close to a hundred knights had already come forth to pledge their lives and swords to the warrior's sons, qyburn claimed, and more turned up every day. drunk on the gods, the lot of them. who would have thought the realm contained so many of them? most had been household knights and hedge knights, but a handful were of high birth; younger sons, petty lords, old men wanting to atone for the old sins. and then there was lancel. she had thought qyburn must be japing when he had told her that her mooncalf cousin had forsaken castle, lands, and wife and wandered back to the city to join the noble and puissant order of the warrior's sons, yet there he stood with the other pious fools. cersei liked that not at all. nor was she pleased by the high sparrow's endless truculence and ingratitude. where is the high septon? she demanded of raynard. it was him i summoned. septon raynard assumed a regretful tone. his high holiness sent me in his stead, and bade me tell your grace that the seven have sent him forth to battle wickedness. how? by preaching chastity along the street of silk? does he think praying over whores will turn them back to virgins? our bodies were shaped by our father and mother so we might join male to female and beget trueborn children, raynard replied. it is base and sinful for women to sell their holy parts for coin. the pious sentiment would have been more convincing if the queen had not known that septon raynard had special friends in every brothel on the street of silk. no doubt he had decided that echoing the high sparrow's twitterings was preferable to scrubbing floors. do not presume to preach at me, she told him. the brothel keepers have been complaining, and rightly so. if sinners speak, why should the righteous listen? these sinners feed the royal coffers, the queen said bluntly, and their pennies help pay the wages of my gold cloaks and build galleys to defend our shores. there is trade to be considered as well. if king's landing had no brothels, the ships would go to duskendale or gulltown. his high holiness promised me peace in my streets. whoring helps to keep that peace. common men deprived of whores are apt to turn to rape. henceforth let his high holiness do his praying in the sept where it belongs. the queen had expected to hear from lord gyles as well, but instead grand maester pycelle appeared, grey-faced and apologetic, to tell her that rosby was too weak to leave his bed. sad to say, i fear lord gyles must join his noble forebears soon. may the father judge him justly. if rosby dies, mace tyre 11 and the little queen will try and force garth the gross on me again. lord gyles has had that cough for years, and it never killed him before, she complained. he coughed through half of robert's reign and all of joffrey's. if he is dying now, it can only be because someone wants him dead. grand maester pycelle blinked in disbelief. your grace? wh-who would want lord gyles dead? his heir, perhaps. or the little queen. some woman he once scorned. margaery and mace and the queen of thorns, why not? gyles is in their way. an old enemy. a new one. you. the old man blanched. y-your grace japes. i... i have purged his lordship, bled him, treated him with poultices and infusions... the mists give him some relief and sweetsleep helps with the violence of his coughing, but he is bringing up bits of lung with the blood now, i fear. be that as it may. you will return to lord gyles and inform him that he does not have my leave to die. if it please your grace. pycelle bowed stiffly. there was more, and more, and more, each petitioner more boring than the last. and that evening, when the last of them had finally gone and she was eating a simple supper with her son, she told him, tommen, when you say your prayers before bed, tell the mother and the father that you are thankful you are still a child. being king is hard work. i promise you, you will not like it. they peck at you like a murder of crows. every one wants a piece of your flesh. yes, mother, said tommen, in a sad tone. the little queen had told him of ser loras, she understood. ser osmund said the boy had wept. he is young. by the time he is joff s age he will not recall what loras looked like. i wouldn't mind them pecking, though, her son went on to say. i should go to court with you every day, to listen. margaery says —   — a deal too much, cersei snapped. for half a groat i'd gladly have her tongue torn out. don't you say that, tommen shouted suddenly, his round little face turning red. you leave her tongue alone. don't you touch her. i'm the king, not you. she stared at him, incredulous. what did you say? i'm the king. i get to say who has their tongues torn out, not you. i won't let you hurt margaery. i won't. i forbid it. cersei took him by the ear and dragged him squealing to the door, where she found ser boros blount standing guard. ser boros, his grace has forgotten himself. kindly escort him to his bedchamber and bring up pate. this time i want tommen to whip the boy himself. he is to continue until the boy is bleeding from both cheeks. if his grace refuses, or says one word of protest, summon qyburn and tell him to remove pate's tongue, so his grace can learn the cost of insolence. as you command, ser boros huffed, glancing at the king uneasily. your grace, please come with me. as night fell over the red keep, jocelyn kindled a fire in the queen's hearth whilst dorcas lit the bedside candles. cersei opened the window for a breath of air, and found that the clouds had rolled back in to hide the stars. such a dark night, your grace, murmured dorcas. aye, she thought, but not so dark as in the maidenvault, or on dragonstone where loras tyrell lies burned and bleeding, or down in the black cells beneath the castle. the queen did not know why that occurred to her. she had resolved not to give falyse another thought. single combat. falyse should have known better than to marry such a fool. the word from stokeworth was that lady tanda had died of a chill in the chest, brought on by her broken hip. lollys lackwit had been proclaimed lady stokeworth, with ser bronn her lord. tanda dead and gyles dying. it is well that we have moon boy, or the court would be entirely bereft of fools. the queen smiled as she lay her head upon the pillow. when i kissed her cheek, i could taste the salt of her tears. she dreamt an old dream, of three girls in brown cloaks, a wattled crone, and a tent that smelled of death. the crone's tent was dark, with a tall peaked roof. she did not want to go in, no more than she had wanted to at ten, but the other girls were watching her, so she could not turn away. they were three in the dream, as they had been in life. fat jeyne farman hung back as she always did. it was a wonder she had come this far. melara hetherspoon was bolder, older, and prettier, in a freckly sort of way. wrapped in roughspun cloaks with their hoods pulled up, the three of them had stolen from their beds and crossed the tourney grounds to seek the sorceress. melara had heard the serving girls whispering how she could curse a man or make him fall in love, summon demons and foretell the future. in life the girls had been breathless and giddy, whispering to each other as they went, as excited as they were afraid. the dream was different. in the dream the pavilions were shadowed, and the knights and serving men they passed were made of mist. the girls wandered for a long while before they found the crone's tent. by the time they did all the torches were guttering out. cersei watched the girls huddling, whispering to one another. go back, she tried to tell them. turn away. there is nothing here for you. but though she moved her mouth, no words came out. lord tywin's daughter was the first through the flap, with melara close behind her. jeyne farman came last, and tried to hide behind the other two, the way she always did. the inside of the tent was full of smells. cinnamon and nutmeg. pepper, red and white and black. almond milk and onions. cloves and lemongrass and precious saffron, and stranger spices, rarer still. the only light came from an iron brazier shaped like a basilisk's head, a dim green light that made the walls of the tent look cold and dead and rotten. had it been that way in life as well? cersei could not seem to remember. the sorceress was sleeping in the dream, as once she'd slept in life. leave her be, the queen wanted to cry out. you little fools, never wake a sleeping sorceress. without a tongue, she could only watch as the girl threw off her cloak, kicked the witch's bed, and said, wake up, we want our futures told. when maggy the frog opened her eyes, jeyne farman gave a frightened squeak and fled the tent, plunging headlong back into the night. plump stupid timid little jeyne, pasty-faced and fat and scared of every shadow. she was the wise one, though. jeyne lived on fair isle still. she had married one of her lord brother's bannermen and whelped a dozen children. the old woman's eyes were yellow, and crusted all about with something vile. in lannisport it was said that she had been young and beautiful when her husband had brought her back from the east with a load of spices, but age and evil had left their marks on her. she was short, squat, and warty, with pebbly greenish jowls. her teeth were gone and her dugs hung down to her knees. you could smell sickness on her if you stood too close, and when she spoke her breath was strange and strong and foul. begone, she told the girls, in a croaking whisper. we came for a foretelling, young cersei told her. begone, croaked the old woman, a second time. we heard that you can see into the morrow, said melara. we just want to know what men we're going to marry. begone, croaked maggy, a third time. listen to her, the queen would have cried if she had her tongue. you still have time to flee. run, you little fools! the girl with the golden curls put her hands upon her hips. give us our foretelling, or i'll go to my lord father and have you whipped for insolence. please, begged melara. just tell us our futures, then we'll go. some are here who have no futures, maggy muttered in her terrible deep voice. she pulled her robe about her shoulders and beckoned the girls closer. come, if you will not go. fools. come, yes. i must taste your blood. melara paled, but not cersei. a lioness does not fear a frog, no matter how old and ugly she might be. she should have gone, she should have listened, she should have run away. instead she took the dagger maggy offered her, and ran the twisted iron blade across the ball of her thumb. then she did melara too. in the dim green tent, the blood seemed more black than red. maggy's toothless mouth trembled at the sight of it. here, she whispered, give it here. when cersei offered her hand, she sucked away the blood with gums as soft as a newborn babe's. the queen could still remember how queer and cold her mouth had been. three questions may you ask, the crone said, once she'd had her drink. you will not like my answers. ask, or begone with you. go, the dreaming queen thought, hold your tongue, and flee. but the girl did not have sense enough to be afraid. when will i wed the prince? she asked. never. you will wed the king. beneath her golden curls, the girl's face wrinkled up in puzzlement. for years after, she took those words to mean that she would not marry rhaegar until after his father aerys had died. i will be queen, though? asked the younger her. aye. malice gleamed in maggy's yellow eyes. queen you shall be... until there comes another, younger and more beautiful, to cast you down and take all that you hold dear. anger flashed across the child's face. if she tries i will have my brother kill her. even then she would not stop, willful child as she was. she still had one more question due her, one more glimpse into her life to come. will the king and i have children? she asked. oh, aye. six-and-ten for him, and three for you. that made no sense to cersei. her thumb was throbbing where she'd cut it, and her blood was dripping on the carpet. how could that be? she wanted to ask, but she was done with her questions. the old woman was not done with her, however. gold shall be their crowns and gold their shrouds, she said. and when your tears have drowned you, the valonqar shall wrap his hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you. what is a valonqar? some monster? the golden girl did not like that foretelling. you're a liar and a warty frog and a smelly old savage, and i don't believe a word of what you say. come away, melara. she is not worth hearing. i get three questions too, her friend insisted. and when cersei tugged upon her arm, she wriggled free and turned back to the crone. will i marry jaime? she blurted out. you stupid girl, the queen thought, angry even now. jaime does not even know you are alive. back then her brother lived only for swords and dogs and horses... and for her, his twin. not jaime, nor any other man, said maggy. worms will have your maidenhead. your death is here tonight, little one. can you smell her breath? she is very close. the only breath we smell is yours, said cersei. there was ajar of some thick potion by her elbow, sitting on a table. she snatched it up and threw it into the old woman's eyes. in life the crone had screamed at them in some queer foreign tongue, and cursed them as they fled her tent. but in the dream her face dissolved, melting away into ribbons of grey mist until all that remained were two squinting yellow eyes, the eyes of death. the valonqar shall wrap his hands about your throat, the queen heard, but the voice did not belong to the old woman. the hands emerged from the mists of her dream and coiled around her neck; thick hands, and strong. above them floated his face, leering down at her with his mismatched eyes. no, the queen tried to cry out, but the dwarfs fingers dug deep into her neck, choking off her protests. she kicked and screamed to no avail. before long she was making the same sound her son had made, the terrible thin sucking sound that marked joff s last breath on earth. she woke gasping in the dark with her blanket wound about her neck. cersei wrenched it off so violently that it tore, and sat up with her breasts heaving. a dream, she told herself, an old dream and a tangled coverlet, that's all it was. taena was spending the night with the little queen again, so it was dorcas asleep beside her. the queen shook the girl roughly by the shoulder. wake up, and find pycelle. he'll be with lord gyles, i expect. fetch him here at once. still half asleep, dorcas stumbled from the bed and went scampering across the chamber for her clothing, her bare feet rustling on the rushes. ages later, grand maester pycelle entered shuffling, and stood before her with bowed head, blinking his heavy-lidded eyes and struggling not to yawn. he looked as if the weight of the huge maester's chain about his wattled neck was dragging him down to the floor. pycelle had been old as far back as cersei could remember, but there was a time when he had also been magnificent: richly clad, dignified, exquisitely courteous. his immense white beard had given him an air of wisdom. tyrion had shaved his beard off, though, and what had grown back was pitiful, a few patchy tufts of thin, brittle hair that did little to hide the loose pink flesh beneath his sagging chin. this is no man, she thought, only the ruins of one. the black cells robbed him of whatever strength he had. that, and the imp's razor. how old are you? cersei asked, abruptly. four-and-eighty, if it please your grace. a younger man would please me more. his tongue flicked across his lips. i was but two-and- forty when the conclave called me. kaeth was eighty when they chose him, and ellendor was nigh on ninety. the cares of office crushed them, and both were dead within a year of being raised. merion came next, only six-and- sixty, but he died of a chill on his way to king's landing. afterward king aegon asked the citadel to send a younger man. he was the first king i served. and tommen shall be the last. i need a potion from you. something to help me sleep. a cup of wine before bed will oft —  i drink wine, you witless cretin. i require something stronger. something that will not let me dream. you... your grace does not wish to dream? what did i just say? have your ears grown as feeble as your cock? can you make me such a potion, or must i command lord qyburn to rectify another of your failures? no. there is no need to involve that... to involve qyburn. dreamless sleep. you shall have your potion. good. you may go. as he turned toward the door, though, she called him back. one more thing. what does the citadel teach concerning prophecy? can our morrows be foretold? the old man hesitated. one wrinkled hand groped blindly at his chest, as if to stroke the beard that was not there. can our morrows be foretold? he repeated slowly. mayhaps. there are certain spells in the old books... but your grace might ask instead,'should our morrows be foretold?' and to that i should answer,'no.' some doors are best left closed. see that you close mine as you leave. she should have known that he would give her an answer as useless as he was. the next morning she broke her fast with tommen. the boy seemed much subdued; ministering to pate had served its purpose, it would seem. they ate fried eggs, fried bread, bacon, and some blood oranges newly come by ship from dome. her son was attended by his kittens. as she watched the cats frolic about his feet, cersei felt a little better. no harm will ever come to tommen whilst i still live. she would kill half the lords in westeros and all the common people, if that was what it took to keep him safe. go with jocelyn, she told the boy after they had eaten. then she sent for qyburn. is lady falyse still alive? alive, yes. perhaps not entirely... comfortable. i see. cersei considered a moment. this man bronn... i cannot say i like the notion of an enemy so close. his power all derives from lollys. if we were to produce her elder sister... alas, said qyburn. i fear that lady falyse is no longer capable of ruling stokeworth. or, indeed, of feeding herself. i have learned a great deal from her, i am pleased to say, but the lessons have not been entirely without cost. i hope i have not exceeded your grace's instructions. no. whatever she had intended, it was too late. there was no sense dwelling on such things. it is better if she dies, she told herself. she would not want to go on living without her husband. oaf that he was, the fool seemed fond of him. there is another matter. last night i had a dreadful dream. all men are so afflicted, from time to time. this dream concerned a witch woman i visited as a child. a woods witch? most are harmless creatures. they know a little herb-craft and some midwifery, but elsewise... she was more than that. half of lannisport used to go to her for charms and potions. she was mother to a petty lord, a wealthy merchant upjumped by my grandsire. this lord's father had found her whilst trading in the east. some say she cast a spell on him, though more like the only charm she needed was the one between her thighs. she was not always hideous, or so they said. i don't recall the woman's name. something long and eastern and outlandish. the smallfolk used to call her maggy. maegi? is that how you say it? the woman would suck a drop of blood from your finger, and tell you what your morrows held. bloodmagic is the darkest kind of sorcery. some say it is the most powerful as well. cersei did not want to hear that. this maegi made certain prophecies. i laughed at them at first, but... she foretold the death of one of my bedmaids. at the time she made the prophecy, the girl was one-and-ten, healthy as a little horse and safe within the rock. yet she soon fell down a well and drowned. melara had begged her never to speak of the things they heard that night in the maegi's tent. if we never talk about it we'll soon forget, and then it will be just a bad dream we had, melara had said. bad dreams never come true. the both of them had been so young, that had sounded almost wise. do you still grieve for this friend of your childhood? qyburn asked. is that what troubles you, your grace? melara? no. i can hardly recall what she looked like. it is just... the maegi knew how many children i would have, and she knew of robert's bastards. years before he'd sired even the first of them, she knew. she promised me i should be queen, but said another queen would come... younger and more beautiful, she said. ... another queen, who would take from me all i loved. and you wish to forestall this prophecy? more than anything, she thought. can it be forestalled? oh, yes. never doubt that. how? i think your grace knows how. she did. i knew it all along, she thought. even in the tent. if she tries i will have my brother kill her. knowing what needed to be done was one thing, though; knowing how to do it was another. jaime could no longer be relied on. a sudden sickness would be best, but the gods were seldom so obliging. how then? a knife, a pillow, a cup of heart's bane? all of those posed problems. when an old man died in his sleep no one thought twice of it, but a girl of six-and-ten found dead in bed was certain to raise awkward questions. besides, margaery never slept alone. even with ser loras dying, there were swords about her night and day. swords have two edges, though. the very men who guard her could be used to bring her down. the evidence would need to be so overwhelming that even margaery' s own lord father would have no choice but to consent to her execution. that would not be easy. her lovers are not like to confess, knowing it would mean their heads as well as hers. unless... the next day the queen came on osmund kettleblack in the yard, as he was sparring with one of the redwyne twins. which one she could not say; she had never been able to tell the two of them apart. she watched the swordplay for a while, then called ser osmund aside. walk with me a bit, she said, and tell me true. i want no empty boasting now, no talk of how a kettleblack is thrice as good as any other knight. much may ride upon your answer. your brother osney. how good a sword is he? good. you've seen him. he's not as strong as me nor osfryd, but he's quick to the kill. if it came to it, could he defeat ser boros blount? boros the belly? ser osmund chortled. he's what, forty? fifty? half-drunk half the time, fat even when he's sober. if he ever had a taste for battle, he's lost it. aye, your grace, if ser boros wants for killing, osney could do it easy enough. why? has boros done some treason? no, she said. but osney has. grand maester pycelle had been old for as long as she had known him, but he seemed to have aged another hundred years in the past three nights. it took him an eternity to bend his creaky knee before her, and once he had he could not rise again until ser osmund jerked him to his feet. cersei studied him with displeasure. lord qyburn informs me that lord gyles has coughed his last. yes, your grace. i did my best to ease his passing. did you? the queen turned to lady merryweather. i did say i wanted rosby alive, did i not? you did, your grace. ser osmund, what is your recollection of the conversation? you commanded grand maester pycelle to save the man, your grace. we all heard. pycelle's mouth opened and closed. your grace must know, i did all that could be done for the poor man. as you did for joffrey? and his father, my own beloved husband? robert was as strong as any man in the seven kingdoms, yet you lost him to a boar. oh, and let us not forget jon arryn. no doubt you would have killed ned stark as well, if i had let you keep him longer. tell me, maester, was it at the citadel that you learned to wring your hands and make excuses? her voice made the old man flinch. no man could have done more, your grace. i... i have always given leal service. when you counseled king aerys to open his gates as my father's host approached, was that your notion of leal service? that... i misjudged the... was that good counsel? your grace must surely know... what i know is that when my son was poisoned you proved to be of less use than moon boy. what i know is that the crown has desperate need of gold, and our lord treasurer is dead. the old fool seized upon that. i... i shall draw up a list of men suitable to take lord gyles's place upon the council. a list. cersei was amused by his presumption. i can well imagine the sort of list you would provide me. greybeards and grasping fools and garth the gross. her lips tightened. you have been much in lady margaery's company of late. yes. yes, i... queen margaery has been most distraught about ser loras. i provide her grace with sleeping draughts and... other sorts of potions. no doubt. tell me, was it our little queen who commanded you to kill lord gyles? k-kill? grand maester pycelle's eyes grew as big as boiled eggs. your grace cannot believe... it was his cough, by all the gods, i... her grace would not... she bore lord gyles no ill will, why would queen margaery want him... ... dead? why, to plant another rose on tommen's council. are you blind or bought? rosby stood in her way, so she put him in his grave. with your connivance. your grace, i swear to you, lord gyles perished from his cough. his mouth was quivering. my loyalty has always been to the crown, to the realm... t-to house lannister. in that order? pycelle's fear was palpable. he is ripe enough. time to squeeze the fruit and taste the juice. if you are as leal as you claim, why are you lying to me? do not trouble to deny it. you began to dance attendance on maid margaery before ser loras went to dragonstone, so spare me further fables about how you want only to console our good-daughter in her grief. what brings you to the maidenvault so often? not margaery's vapid conversation, surely? are you courting that pox- faced septa of hers? diddling little lady bulwer? do you play the spy for her, informing on me to serve her plots? i... i obey. a maester takes an oath of service... a grand maester swears to serve the realm. your grace, she... she is the queen... i am the queen. i meant... she is the king's wife, and... i know who she is. what i want to know is why she has need of you. is my good-daughter unwell? unwell? the old man plucked at the thing he called a beard, that patched growth of thin white hair sprouting from the loose pink wattles under his chin. n-not unwell, your grace, not as such. my oaths forbid me to divulge... your oaths will be of small comfort in the black cells, she warned him. i'll hear the truth, or you'll wear chains. pycelle collapsed to his knees. i beg you... i was your lord father's man, and a friend to you in the matter of lord arryn. i could not survive the dungeons, not again... why does margaery send for you? she desires... she... she... say it! he cringed. moon tea, he whispered. moon tea, for... i know what moon tea is for. there it is. very well. get off those saggy knees and try to remember what it was to be a man. pycelle struggled to rise, but took so long about it that she had to tell osmund kettleblack to give him another yank. as to lord gyles, no doubt our father above will judge him justly. he left no children? no children of his body, but there is a ward... ... not of his blood. cersei dismissed that annoyance with a flick of her hand. gyles knew of our dire need for gold. no doubt he told you of his wish to leave all his lands and wealth to tommen. rosby's gold would help refresh their coffers, and rosby's lands and castle could be bestowed upon one of her own as a reward for leal service. lord waters, perhaps. aurane had been hinting at his need for a seat; his lordship was only an empty honor without one. he had his eye on dragonstone, cersei knew, but there he aimed too high. rosby would be more suitable to his birth and station. lord gyles loved his grace with all his heart, pycelle was saying, but... his ward... ... will doubtless understand, once he hears you speak of lord gyles's dying wish. go, and see it done. if it please your grace. grand maester pycelle almost tripped over his own robes in his haste to leave. lady merryweather closed the door behind him. moon tea, she said, as she turned back to the queen. how foolish of her. why would she do such a thing, take such a risk? the little queen has appetites that tommen is as yet too young to satisfy. that was always a danger, when a grown woman was married to a child. even more so with a widow. she may claim that renly never touched her, but i will not believe it. women only drank moon tea for one reason; maidens had no need for it at all. my son has been betrayed. margaery has a lover. that is high treason, punishable by death. she could only hope that mace tyrell's prune-faced harridan of a mother lived long enough to see the trial. by insisting that tommen and margaery be wed at once, lady olenna had condemned her precious rose to a headsman's sword. jaime made off with ser ilyn payne. i suppose i shall need to find a new king's justice to snick her head off. i'll do it, offered osmund kettleblack, with an easy grin. margaery's got a pretty little neck. a good sharp sword will go right through it. it would, said taena, but there is a tyrell army at storm's end and another at maidenpool. they have sharp swords as well. i am awash in roses. it was vexing. she still had need of mace tyrell, if not his daughter. at least until such time as stannis is defeated. then i shan't need any of them. but how could she rid herself of the daughter without losing the father? treason is treason, she said, but we must have proof, something more substantial than moon tea. if she is proved to be untrue, even her own lord father must condemn her, or her shame becomes his own. kettleblack chewed on one end of his mustache. we need to catch them during the deed. how? qyburn has eyes on her day and night. her serving men take my coin, but bring us only trifles. yet no one has seen this lover. the ears outside her door hear singing, laughter, gossip, nothing of any use. margaery is too shrewd to be caught so easily, said lady merryweather. her women are her castle walls. they sleep with her, dress her, pray with her, read with her, sew with her. when she is not hawking or riding she is playing come-into-my-castle with little alysanne bulwer. whenever men are about, her septa will be with her, or her cousins. she must rid herself of her hens sometime, the queen insisted. a thought struck her. unless her ladies are part of it as well... not all of them, perhaps, but some. the cousins? even taena sounded doubtful. all three are younger than the little queen, and more innocent. wantons clad in maiden's white. that only makes their sins more shocking. their names will live in shame. suddenly the queen could almost taste it. taena, your lord husband is my justiciar. the two of you must sup with me, this very night. she wanted this done quickly, before margaery took it in her little head to return to highgarden, or sail to dragonstone to be with her wounded brother at death's door. i shall command the cooks to roast a boar for us. and of course we must have some music, to help with our digestion. taena was very quick. music. just so. go and tell your lord husband and make arrangements for the singer, cersei urged. ser osmund, you may remain. we have much and more to discuss. i shall have need of qyburn too. sad to say, the kitchens proved to have no wild boar on hand, and there was not time enough to send out hunters. instead, the cooks butchered one of the castle sows, and served them ham studded with cloves and basted with honey and dried cherries. it was not what cersei wanted, but she made do. afterward they had baked apples with a sharp white cheese. lady taena savored every bite. not so orton merryweather, whose round face remained blotched and pale from broth to cheese. he drank heavily and kept stealing glances at the singer. a great pity about lord gyles, cersei said at last. i daresay none of us will miss his coughing, though. no. no, i'd think not. we shall have need of a new lord treasurer. if the vale were not so unsettled, i would bring back petyr baelish, but... i am minded to try ser harys in the office. he can do no worse than gyles, and at least he does not cough. ser harys is the king's hand, said taena. ser harys is a hostage, and feeble even at that. it is time that tommen had a more forceful hand. lord orton lifted his gaze from his wine cup. forceful. to be sure. he hesitated. who... ? you, my lord. it is in your blood. your grands ire took my own father's place as hand to aerys. replacing tywin lannister with owen merryweather had proved to be akin to replacing a destrier with a donkey, to be sure, but owen had been an old done man when aerys raised him, amiable if ineffectual. his grandson was younger, and... well, he has a strong wife. it was a pity taena could not serve as hand. she was thrice the man her husband was, and far more amusing. she was also myrish-born and female, however, so orton must needs suffice. i have no doubt that you are more able than ser harys. the contents of my chamber pot are more able than ser harys. will you consent to serve? i... yes, of course. your grace does me great honor. a greater one than you deserve. you have served me ably as justiciar, my lord. and will continue to do so through these... trying times ahead. when she saw that merryweather had grasped her meaning, the queen turned to smile at the singer. and you must be rewarded as well, for all the sweet songs you have played for us whilst we ate. the gods have given you a gift. the singer bowed. your grace is kind to say so. not kind, said cersei, merely truthful. taena tells me that you are called the blue bard. i am, your grace. the singer's boots were supple blue calfskin, his breeches fine blue wool. the tunic he wore was pale blue silk slashed with shiny blue satin. he had even gone so far as to dye his hair blue, in the tyroshi fashion. long and curly, it fell to his shoulders and smelled as if it had been washed in rosewater. from blue roses, no doubt. at least his teeth are white. they were good teeth, not the least bit crooked. you have no other name? a hint of pink suffused his cheeks. as a boy, i was called wat. a fine name for a plowboy, less fitting for a singer. the blue bard's eyes were the same color as robert's. for that alone, she hated him. it is easy to see why you are lady margaery's favorite. her grace is kind. she says i give her pleasure. oh, i'm certain of it. might i see your lute? if it please your grace. beneath the courtesy, there was a faint hint of unease, but he handed her the lute all the same. one does not refuse the queen's request. cersei plucked a string and smiled at the sound. sweet and sad as love. tell me, wat... the first time you took margaery to bed, was that before she wed my son, or after? for a moment he did not seem to understand. when he did, his eyes grew large. your grace has been misinformed. i swear to you, i never —  liar! cersei smashed the lute across the singer's face so hard the painted wood exploded into shards and splinters. lord orton, summon my guards and take this creature to the dungeons. orton merryweather's face was damp with fear. this... oh, infamy... he dared seduce the queen? i fear it was the other way around, but he is a traitor all the same. let him sing for lord qyburn. the blue bard went white. no. blood dripped from his lip where the lute had torn it. i never... when merryweather seized him by the arm, he screamed, mother have mercy, no. i am not your mother, cersei told him. even in the black cells, all they got from him were denials, prayers, and pleas for mercy. before long, blood was streaming down his chin from all his broken teeth, and he wet his dark blue breeches three times over, yet still the man persisted in his lies. is it possible we have the wrong singer? cersei asked. all things are possible, your grace. have no fear. the man will confess before the night is done. down here in the dungeons, qyburn wore roughspun wool and a blacksmith's leather apron. to the blue bard he said, i am sorry if the guards were rough with you. their courtesies are sadly lacking. his voice was kind, solicitous. all we want from you is the truth. i've told you the truth, the singer sobbed. iron shackles held him hard against the cold stone wall. we know better. qyburn had a razor in his hand, its edge gleaming faintly in the torchlight. he cut away the blue bard's clothing, until the man was naked but for his high blue boots. the hair between his legs was brown, cersei was amused to see. tell us how you pleasured the little queen, she commanded. i never... i sang, was all, i sang and played. her ladies will tell you. they were always with us. her cousins. how many of them did you have carnal knowledge of? none of them. i'm just a singer. please. qyburn said, your grace, mayhaps this poor man only played for margaery whilst she entertained other lovers. no. please. she never... i sang, i only sang... lord qyburn ran a hand up the blue bard's chest. does she take your nipples in her mouth during your love play? he took one between his thumb and forefinger, and twisted. some men enjoy that. their nipples are as sensitive as a woman's. the razor flashed, the singer shrieked. on his chest a wet red eye wept blood. cersei felt ill. part of her wanted to close her eyes, to turn away, to make it stop. but she was the queen and this was treason. lord tywin would not have turned away. in the end the blue bard told them his whole life, back to his first name day. his father had been a chandler and wat was raised to that trade, but as a boy he found he had more skill at making lutes than barrels. when he was twelve he ran off to join a troupe of musicians he had heard performing at a fair. he had wandered half the reach before coming to king's landing in hopes of finding favor at court. favor? qyburn chuckled. is that what women call it now? i fear you found too much of it, my friend... and from the wrong queen. the true one stands before you. yes. cersei blamed margaery tyrell for this. if not for her, wat might have lived a long and fruitful life, singing his little songs and bedding pig girls and crofter's daughters. her scheming forced this on me. she has soiled me with her treachery. by dawn the singer's high blue boots were full of blood, and he had told them how margaery would fondle herself as she watched her cousins pleasuring him with their mouths. at other times he would sing for her whilst she sated her lusts with other lovers. who were they? the queen demanded, and the wretched wat named ser tallad the tall, lambert turnberry, jalabhar xho, the redwyne twins, osney kettleblack, hugh clifton, and the knight of flowers. that displeased her. she dare not besmirch the name of the hero of dragonstone. besides, no one who knew ser loras would ever believe it. the redwynes could not be a part of it either. without the arbor and its fleet, the realm could never hope to rid itself of this euron crow's eye and his accursed ironmen. all you are doing is spitting up the names of men you saw about her chambers. we want the truth! the truth. wat looked at her with the one blue eye that qyburn had left him. blood bubbled through the holes where his front teeth had been. i might have... misremembered. horas and hobber had no part of this, did they? no, he admitted. not them. as for ser loras, i am certain margaery took pains to hide what she was doing from her brother. she did. i remember now. once i had to hide under the bed when ser loras came to see her. he must never know, she said. i prefer this song to the other. leave the great lords out of it, that was for the best. the others, though... ser tallad had been a hedge knight, jalabhar xho was an exile and a beggar, clifton was the only one of the little queen's guardsman. and osney is the plum that makes the pudding. i know you feel better for having told the truth. you will want to remember that when margaery comes to trial. if you were to start lying again... i won't. i'll tell it true. and after... ... you will be allowed to take the black. you have my word on that. cersei turned to qyburn. see that his wounds are cleaned and dressed, and give him milk of the poppy for the pain. your grace is good. qyburn dropped the bloody razor into a pail of vinegar. margaery may wonder where her bard has gone. singers come and go, they are infamous for it. the climb up the dark stone steps from the black cells left cersei feeling breathless. i must rest. getting to the truth was wearisome work, and she dreaded what must follow. i must be strong. what i must do i do for tommen and the realm. it was a pity that maggy the frog was dead. piss on your prophecy, old woman. the little queen may be younger than i, but she has never been more beautiful, and soon she will be dead. lady merryweather was waiting in her bedchamber. it was the black of night, closer to dawn than to dusk. jocelyn and dorcas were both asleep, but not taena. was it terrible? she asked. you cannot know. i need to sleep, but fear to dream. taena stroked her hair. it was all for tommen. it was. i know it was. cersei shuddered. my throat is raw. be a sweet and pour me some wine. if it please you. that is all that i desire. liar. she knew what taena desired. so be it. if the woman was besotted with her, that would help ensure that she and her husband remained loyal. in a world so full of treachery, that was worth a few kisses. she is no worse than most men. at least there is no danger of her ever getting me with child. the wine helped, but not enough. i feel soiled, the queen complained as she stood beside her window, cup in hand. a bath will set you right, my sweet. lady merryweather woke dorcas and jocelyn and sent them for hot water. as the tub was filled, she helped the queen disrobe, undoing her laces with deft fingers and easing the gown off her shoulders. then she slipped out of her own dress and let it puddle on the floor. the two of them shared the bath together, with cersei lying back in taena's arms. tommen must be spared the worst of this, she told the myrish woman. margaery still takes him to the sept every day, so they can ask the gods to heal her brother. ser loras still clung to life, annoyingly. he is fond of her cousins as well. it will go hard on him, to lose them all. all three may not be guilty, suggested lady merryweather. why, it might well be that one of them took no part. if she was shamed and sickened by the things she saw... ... she might be persuaded to bear witness against the others. yes, very good, but which one is the innocent? alia. the shy one? so she seems, but there is more of sly than shy in her. leave her to me, my sweet. gladly. alone, the blue bard's confession would never suffice. singers lied for their living, after all. alia tyrell would be of great help, if taena could deliver her. ser osney shall confess as well. the others must be made to understand that only through confession can they earn the king's forgiveness, and the wall. jalabhar xho would find the truth attractive. about the rest she was less certain, but qyburn was persuasive... dawn was breaking over king's landing when they climbed from the tub. the queen's skin was white and wrinkled from her long immersion. stay with me, she told taena. i do not want to sleep alone. she even said a prayer before she crawled beneath her coverlet, beseeching the mother for sweet dreams. it proved a waste of breath; as ever, the gods were deaf. cersei dreamt that she was down in the black cells once again, only this time it was her chained to the wall in place of the singer. she was naked, and blood dripped from the tips of her breasts where the imp had torn off her nipples with his teeth. please, she begged, please, not my children, do not harm my children. tyrion only leered at her. he was naked too, covered with coarse hair that made him look more like a monkey than a man. you shall see them crowned, he said, and you shall see them die. then he took her bleeding breast into his mouth and began to suck, and pain sawed through her like a hot knife. she woke shuddering in taena's arms. a bad dream, she said weakly. did i scream? i'm sorry. dreams turn to dust in light of day. was it the dwarf again? why does he frighten you so, this silly little man? he is going to kill me. it was foreseen when i was ten. i wanted to know who i would marry, but she said... she? the maegi. the words came tumbling out of her. she could still hear melara hetherspoon insisting that if they never spoke about the prophecies, they would not come true. she was not so silent in the well, though. she screamed and shouted. tyrion is the valonqar, she said. do you use that word in myr? it's high valyrian, it means little brother. she had asked septa saranella about the word, after melara drowned. taena took her hand and stroked it. this was a hateful woman, old and sick and ugly. you were young and beautiful, full of life and pride. she lived in lannisport, you said, so she would have known of the dwarf and how he killed your lady mother. this creature dared not strike you, because of who you were, so she sought to wound you with her viper's tongue. could it be? cersei wanted to believe it. melara died, though, just as she foretold. i never wed prince rhaegar. and joffrey... the dwarf killed my son before my eyes. one son, said lady merryweather, but you have another, sweet and strong, and no harm will ever come to him. never, whilst i live. saying it helped her believe that it was so. dreams turn to dust in light of day, yes. outside the morning sun was shining through a haze of cloud. cersei slipped out from under the blankets. i will break my fast with the king this morning. i want to see my son. all i do, i do for him. tommen helped restore her to herself. he had never been more precious to her than he was that morning, chattering about his kittens as he dribbled honey onto a chunk of hot black bread fresh from the ovens. ser pounce caught a mouse, he told her, but lady whiskers stole it from him. i was never so sweet and innocent, cersei thought. how can he ever hope to rule in this cruel realm? the mother in her wanted only to protect him; the queen in her knew he must grow harder, or the iron throne was certain to devour him. ser pounce must learn to defend his rights, she told him. in this world the weak are always the victims of the strong. the king considered that, licking honey off his fingers. when ser loras comes back i'm going to learn to fight with lance and sword and morningstar, the same way he does. you will learn to fight, the queen promised, but not from ser loras. he will not be coming back, tommen. margaery says he will. we pray for him. we ask for the mother's mercy, and for the warrior to give him strength. elinor says that this is ser loras's hardest battle. she smoothed his hair back, the soft golden curls that reminded her so much of joff will you be spending the afternoon with your wife and her cousins? not today. she has to fast and purify herself, she said. fast and purify... oh, for maiden's day. it had been years since cersei had been required to observe that particular holy day. thrice wed, yet she still would have us believe she is a maid. demure in white, the little queen would lead her hens to baelor's sept to light tall white candles at the maiden's feet and hang parchment garlands about her holy neck. a few of her hens, at least. on maiden's day widows, mothers, and whores alike were barred from the septs, along with men, lest they profane the sacred songs of innocence. only virgin maids could... mother? did i say something wrong? cersei kissed her son's brow. you said something very wise, sweetling. now run along and play with your kittens. afterward she summoned ser osney kettleblack to her solar. he came in sweaty from the yard and swaggering, and as he took a knee he undressed her with his eyes, the way he always did. rise, ser, and sit here next to me. you did me a valiant service once, but now i have a harder task for you. aye, and i have something hard for you. that must wait. she traced his scars lightly with the tips of her fingers. do you recall the whore who gave these to you? i'll give her to you when you come back from the wall. would you like that? it's you i want. that was the right answer. first you must confess your treason. a man's sins can poison his soul if left to fester. i know it must be hard for you to live with what you've done. it is past time that you rid yourself of your shame. shame? osney sounded baffled. i told osmund, margaery just teases. she never lets me do any more than... it is chivalrous of you to protect her, cersei broke in, but you are too good a knight to go on living with your crime. no, you must take yourself to the great sept of baelor this very night and speak with the high septon. when a man's sins are so black, only his high holiness himself can save him from hell's torments. tell him how you bedded margaery and her cousins. osney blinked. what, the cousins too? megga and elinor, she decided, never alia. that little detail would make the whole story more plausible. alia would sit weeping, and plead with the others to stop their sinning. just megga and elinor? or margaery too? margaery, most certainly. she was the one behind it all. she told him all she had in mind. as osney listened, apprehension slowly spread across his face. when she finished he said, after you cut her head off, i want to take that kiss she never gave me. you may take all the kisses you like. and then the wall? for just a little while. tommen is a forgiving king. osney scratched at his scarred cheek. usually if i lie about some woman, it's me saying how i never fucked them and them saying how i did. this... i never lied to no high septon before. i think you go to some hell for that. one o' the bad ones. the queen was taken aback. the last thing she expected was piety from a kettleblack. are you refusing to obey me? no. osney touched her golden hair. the thing is, the best lies have some truth in'em... to give'em flavor, as it were. and you want me to go tell how i fucked a queen... she almost slapped his face. almost. but she had gone too far, and too much was at stake. all i do, i do for tommen. she turned her head and caught ser osney's hand with her own, kissing his fingers. they were rough and hard, callused from the sword. robert had hands like that, she thought. cersei wrapped her arms about his neck. i would not want it said i made a liar of you, she whispered in a husky voice. give me an hour, and meet me in my bedchamber. we waited long enough. he thrust his fingers inside the bodice of her gown and yanked, and the silk parted with a ripping sound so loud that cersei was afraid that half of the red keep must have heard it. take off the rest before i tear that too, he said. you can keep the crown on. i like you in the crown. septa moelle was a white-haired harridan with a face as sharp as an axe and lips pursed in perpetual disapproval. this one still has her maidenhead, i'll wager, cersei thought, though by now it's hard and stiff as boiled leather. six of the high sparrow's knights escorted her, with the rainbow sword of their reborn order emblazoned on their kite shields. septa. cersei sat beneath the iron throne, clad in green silk and golden lace. tell his high holiness that we are vexed with him. he presumes too much. emeralds glimmered on her fingers and in her golden hair. the eyes of court and city were upon her, and she meant for them to see lord tywin's daughter. by the time this mummer's farce was done they would know they had but one true queen. but first we must dance the dance and never miss a step. lady margaery is my son's true and gentle wife, his helpmate and consort. his high holiness had no cause to lay his hands upon her person, or to confine her and her young cousins, who are so dear to all of us. i demand that he release them. septa moelle's stern expression did not flicker. i shall convey your grace's words to his high holiness, but it grieves me to say that the young queen and her ladies cannot be released until and unless their innocence has been proved. innocence? why, you need only look upon their sweet young faces to see how innocent they are. a sweet face oft hides a sinner's heart. lord merryweather spoke up from the council table. what offense have these young maids been accused of, and by whom? the septa said, megga tyrell and elinor tyrell stand accused of lewdness, fornication, and conspiracy to commit high treason. alia tyrell has been charged with witnessing their shame and helping them conceal it. all this queen margaery has also been accused of, as well as adultery and high treason. cersei put a hand to her breast. tell me who is spreading such calumnies about my good- daughter! i do not believe a word of this. my sweet son loves lady margaery with all his heart, she could never have been so cruel as to play him false. the accuser is a knight of your own household. ser osney kettleblack has confessed his carnal knowledge of the queen to the high septon himself, before the altar of the father. at the council table harys swyft gasped, and grand maester pycelle turned away. a buzz filled the air, as if a thousand wasps were loose in the throne room. some of the ladies in the galleries began to slip away, followed by a stream of petty lords and knights from the back of the hall. the gold cloaks let them go, but the queen had instructed ser osfryd to make note of all who fled. suddenly the tyrell rose does not smell so sweet. ser osney is young and lusty, i will grant you, the queen said, but a faithful knight for all that. if he says that he was part of this... no, it cannot be. margaery is a maiden! she is not. i examined her myself, at the behest of his high holiness. her maidenhead is not intact. septa aglantine and septa melicent will say the same, as will queen margaery' s own septa, nysterica, who has been confined to a penitent's cell for her part in the queen's shame. lady megga and lady elinor were examined as well. both were found to have been broken. the wasps were growing so loud that the queen could hardly hear herself think. i do hope the little queen and her cousins enjoyed those rides of theirs. lord merryweather thumped his fist on the table. lady margaery had sworn solemn oaths attesting to her maidenhood, to her grace the queen and her late father. many here bore witness. lord tyrell has also testified to her innocence, as has the lady olenna, whom we all know to be above reproach. would you have us believe that all of these noble people lied to us? perhaps they were deceived as well, my lord, said septa moelle. i cannot speak to this. i can only swear to the truth of what i discovered for myself when i examined the queen. the picture of this sour old crone poking her wrinkled fingers up margaery' s little pink cunt was so droll that cersei almost laughed. we insist that his high holiness allow our own maesters to examine my good-daughter, to determine if there is any shred of truth to these slanders. grand maester pycelle, you shall accompany septa moelle back to beloved baelor's sept, and return to us with the truth about our margaery's maidenhead. pycelle had gone the color of curdled white. at council meetings the wretched old fool cannot say enough, but now that i need a few words from him he has lost the power of speech, the queen thought, before the old man finally came out with, there is no need for me to examine her... her privy parts. his voice was a quaver. i grieve to say... queen margaery is no maiden. she has required me to make her moon tea, not once, but many times. the uproar that followed that was all that cersei lannister could ever have hoped for. even the royal herald beating on the floor with his staff did little to quell the noise. the queen let it wash over her for a few heartbeats, savoring the sounds of the little queen's disgrace. when it had gone on long enough, she rose stone-faced and commanded that the gold cloaks clear the hall. margaery tyrell is done, she thought, exulting. her white knights fell in around her as she made her exit through the king's door behind the iron throne; boros blount, meryn trant, and osmund kettleblack, the last of the kingsguard still remaining in the city. moon boy was standing beside the door, holding his rattle in his hand and gaping at the confusion with his big round eyes. a fool he may be, but he wears his folly honestly. maggy the frog should have been in motley too, for all she knew about the morrow. cersei prayed the old fraud was screaming down in hell. the younger queen whose coming she'd foretold was finished, and if that prophecy could fail, so could the rest. no golden shrouds, no valonqar, i am free of your croaking malice at last. the remnants of her small council followed her out. harys swyft appeared dazed. he stumbled at the door and might have fallen if aurane waters had not caught him by the arm. even orton merryweather seemed anxious. the smallfolk are fond of the little queen, he said. they will not take well to this. i fear what might happen next, your grace. lord merryweather is right, said lord waters. if it please your grace, i will launch the rest of our new dromonds. the sight of them upon the blackwater with king tommen's banner flying from their masts will remind the city who rules here, and keep them safe should the mobs decide to run riot again. he left the rest unspoken; once on the blackwater, his dromonds could stop mace tyrell from bringing his army back across the river, just as tyrion had once stopped stannis. highgarden had no sea power of its own this side of westeros. they relied upon the redwyne fleet, presently on its way back to the arbor. a prudent measure, the queen announced. until this storm has passed, i want your ships crewed and on the water. ser harys swyft was so pale and damp he looked about to faint. when word of this reaches lord tyrell, his fury will know no bounds. there will be blood in the streets... the knight of the yellow chicken, cersei mused. you ought to take a worm for your sigil, ser. a chicken is too bold for you. if mace tyrell will not even assault storm's end, how do you imagine that he would ever dare attack the gods? when he was done blathering she said, it must not come to blood, and i mean to see that it does not. i will go to baelor's sept myself to speak to queen margaery and the high septon. tommen loves them both, i know, and would want me to make peace between them. peace? ser harys dabbed at his brow with a velvet sleeve. if peace is possible... that is very brave of you. some sort of trial may be necessary, said the queen, to disprove these base calumnies and lies and show the world that our sweet margaery is the innocent we all know her to be. aye, said merryweather, but this high septon may want to try the queen himself, as the faith once tried men of old. i hope so, cersei thought. such a court was not like to look with favor on treasonous queens who spread their legs for singers and profaned the maiden's holy rites to hide their shame. the important thing is to find the truth, i am sure we all agree, she said. and now, my lords, you must excuse me. i must go see the king. he should not be alone at such a time. tommen was fishing for cats when his mother returned to him. dorcas had made him a mouse with scraps of fur and tied it on a long string at the end of an old fishing pole. the kittens loved to chase it, and the boy liked nothing better than jerking it about the floor as they pounced after it. he seemed surprised when cersei gathered him up in her arms and kissed him on his brow. what's that for, mother? why are you crying? because you're safe, she wanted to tell him. because no harm will ever come to you. you are mistaken. a lion never cries. there would be time later to tell him about margaery and her cousins. there are some warrants that i need you to sign. for the king's sake, the queen had left the names off the arrest warrants. tommen signed them blank, and pressed his seal into the warm wax happily, as he always did. afterward she sent him off with jocelyn swyft. ser osfryd kettleblack arrived as the ink was drying. cersei had written in the names herself: ser tallad the tall, jalabhar xho, hamish the harper, hugh clifton, mark mullendore, bayard norcross, lambert turnberry, horas redwyne, hobber redwyne, and a certain churl named wat, who called himself the blue bard. so many. ser osfryd shuffled through the warrants, as wary of the words as if they had been roaches crawling across the parchment. none of the kettleblacks could read. ten. you have six thousand gold cloaks. sufficient for ten, i would think. some of the clever ones may have fled, if the rumors reached their ears in time. if so, it makes no matter, their absence only makes them look that much more guilty. ser tallad is a bit of an oaf and may try to resist you. see that he does not die before confessing, and do no harm to any of the others. a few may well be innocent. it was important that the redwyne twins be found to have been falsely accused. that would demonstrate the fairness of the judgments against the others. we'll have them all before the sun comes up, your grace. ser osfryd hesitated. there's a crowd gathering outside the door of baelor's sept. what sort of crowd? anything unexpected made her wary. she remembered what lord waters had said about the riots. i had not considered how the smallfolk might react to this. margaery has been their little pet. how many? a hundred or so. they're shouting for the high septon to release the little queen. we can send them running, if you like. no. let them shout until they're hoarse, it will not sway the sparrow. he only listens to the gods. there was a certain irony in his high holiness having an angry mob encamped upon his doorstep, since just such a mob had raised him to the crystal crown. which he promptly sold. the faith has its own knights now. let them defend the sept. oh, and close the city gates as well. no one is to enter or leave king's landing without my leave, until all this is done and settled. as you command, your grace. ser osfryd bowed and went off to find someone to read the warrants to him. by the time the sun went down that day, all of the accused traitors were in custody. hamish the harper had collapsed when they came for him, and ser tallad the tall had wounded three gold cloaks before the others overwhelmed him. cersei ordered that the redwyne twins be given comfortable chambers in a tower. the rest went down to the dungeons. hamish is having difficulty breathing, qyburn informed her when he came to call that night. he is calling for a maester. tell him he can have one as soon as he confesses. she thought a moment. he is too old to have been amongst the lovers, but no doubt he was made to play and sing for margaery whilst she was entertaining other men. we will need details. i shall help him to remember them, your grace. the next day, lady merryweather helped cersei dress for their visit to the little queen. nothing too rich or colorful, she said. something suitably devout and drab for the high septon. he's like to make me pray with him. in the end, she chose a soft woolen dress that covered her from throat to ankle, with only a few small vines embroidered on the bodice and the sleeves in golden thread to soften the severity of its lines. even better, brown would help conceal the dirt if she was made to kneel. whilst i am comforting my good-daughter you shall speak with the three cousins, she told taena. win alia if you can, but be careful what you say. the gods may not be the only ones listening. jaime always said that the hardest part of any battle is just before, waiting for the carnage to begin. when she stepped outside, cersei saw that the sky was grey and bleak. she could not take the risk of being caught in a downpour and arriving at baelor's sept soaked and bedraggled. that meant the litter. for her escort, she took ten lannister house guards and boros blount. margaery's mob may not have the wit to tell one kettleblack from another, she told ser osmund, and i cannot have you cutting through the commons. best we keep you out of sight for a time. as they made their way across king's landing, taena had a sudden doubt. this trial, she said, in a quiet voice, what if margaery demands that her guilt or innocence be determined by wager of battle? a smile brushed cersei' s lips. as queen, her honor must be defended by a knight of the kingsguard. why, every child in westeros knows how prince aemon the dragonknight championed his sister queen naerys against ser morghil's accusations. with ser loras so gravely wounded, though, i fear prince aemon's part must fall to one of his sworn brothers. she shrugged. who, though? ser arys and ser balon are far away in dome, jaime is off at riverrun, and ser osmund is the brother of the man accusing her, which leaves only... oh, dear... boros blount and meryn trant. lady taena laughed. yes, and ser meryn has been feeling ill of late. remind me to tell him that when we return to the castle. i shall, my sweet. taena took her hand and kissed it. i pray that i never offend you. you are terrible when roused. any mother would do the same to protect her children, said cersei. when do you mean to bring that boy of yours to court? russell, was that his name? he could train with tommen. that would thrill the boy, i know... but things are so uncertain just now, i thought it best to wait until the danger passed. soon enough, promised cersei. send word to longtable and have russell pack his best doublet and his wooden sword. a new young friend will be just the thing to help tommen forget his loss, after margaery's little head has rolled. they descended from the litter under blessed baelor's statue. the queen was pleased to see that the bones and filth had been cleaned away. ser osfryd had told it true; the crowd was neither as numerous nor as unruly as the sparrows had been. they stood about in small clumps, gazing sullenly at the doors of the great sept, where a line of novice septons had been drawn up with quarterstaffs in their hands. no steel, cersei noted. that was either very wise or very stupid, she was not sure which. no one made any attempt to hinder her. smallfolk and novices alike parted as they passed. once inside the doors, they were met by three knights in the hall of lamps, each clad in the rainbow-striped robes of the warrior's sons. i am here to see my good-daughter, cersei told them. his high holiness has been expecting you. i am ser theodan the true, formerly ser theodan wells. if your grace will come with me. the high sparrow was on his knees, as ever. this time he was praying before the father's altar. nor did he break off his prayer when the queen approached, but made her wait impatiently until he had finished. only then did he rise and bow to her. your grace. this is a sad day. very sad. do we have your leave to speak with margaery and her cousins? she chose a meek and humble manner; with this man, that was like to work the best. if that is your wish. come to me afterward, my child. we must pray together, you and i. the little queen had been confined atop one of the great sept's slender towers. her cell was eight feet long and six feet wide, with no furnishings but a straw-stuffed pallet and a bench for prayer, a ewer of water, a copy of the seven-pointed star, and a candle to read it by. the only window was hardly wider than an arrow slit. cersei found margaery barefoot and shivering, clad in the roughspun shift of a novice sister. her locks were all a tangle, and her feet were filthy. they took my clothes from me, the little queen told her once they were alone. i wore a gown of ivory lace, with freshwater pearls on the bodice, but the septas laid their hands on me and stripped me to the skin. my cousins too. megga sent one septa crashing into the candles and set her robe afire. i fear for alia, though. she went as white as milk, too frightened even to cry. poor child. there were no chairs, so cersei sat beside the little queen on her pallet. lady taena has gone to speak with her, to let her know that she is not forgotten. he will not even let me see them, fumed margaery. he keeps each of us apart from the others. until you came, i was allowed no visitors but septas. one comes every hour to ask if i wish to confess my fornications. they will not even let me sleep. they wake me to demand confessions. last night i confessed to septa unella that i wished to scratch her eyes out. a shame you did not do it, cersei thought. blinding some poor old septa would certainly persuade the high sparrow of your guilt. they are questioning your cousins the same way. damn them, then, said margaery. damn them all to seven hells. alia is gentle and shy, how can they do this to her? and megga... she laughs as loud as a dockside whore, i know, but inside she's still just a little girl. i love them all, and they love me. if this sparrow thinks to make them lie about me... they stand accused as well, i fear. all three. my cousins? margaery paled. alia and megga are hardly more than children. your grace, this... this is obscene. will you take us out of here? would that i could. her voice was full of sorrow. his high holiness has his new knights guarding you. to free you i would need to send the gold cloaks and profane this holy place with killing. cersei took margaery's hand in hers. i have not been idle, though. i have gathered up all those that ser osney named as your lovers. they will tell his high holiness of your innocence, i am certain, and swear to it at your trial. trial? there was real fear in the girl's voice now. must there be a trial? how else will you prove your innocence? cersei gave margaery's hand a reassuring squeeze. it is your right to decide the manner of the trial, to be sure. you are the queen. the knights of the kingsguard are sworn to defend you. margaery understood at once. a trial by battle? loras is hurt, though, elsewise he... he has six brothers. margaery stared at her, then pulled her hand away. is that a jape? boros is a craven, meryn is old and slow, your brother is maimed, the other two are off in dome, and osmund is a bloody kettleblack. loras has two brothers, not six. if there's to be a trial by battle, i want garlan as my champion. ser garlan is not a member of the kingsguard, the queen said. when the queen's honor is at issue, law and custom require that her champion be one of the king's sworn seven. the high septon will insist, i fear. i will make certain of it. margaery did not answer at once, but her brown eyes narrowed in suspicion. blount or trant, she said at last. it would have to be one of them. you'd like that, wouldn't you? osney kettleblack would cut either one to pieces. seven hells. cersei donned a look of hurt. you wrong me, daughter. all i want —   — is your son, all for yourself. he will never have a wife that you don't hate. and i am not your daughter, thank the gods. leave me. you are being foolish. i am only here to help you. to help me to my grave. i asked for you to leave. will you make me call my gaolers and have you dragged away, you vile, scheming, evil bitch? cersei gathered up her skirts and dignity. this must be very frightening for you. i shall forgive those words. here, as at court, one never knew who might be listening. i would be afraid as well, in your place. grand maester pycelle has admitted providing you with moon tea, and your blue bard... if i were you, my lady, i would pray to the crone for wisdom and to the mother for her mercy. i fear you may soon be in dire need of both. four shriveled septas escorted the queen down the tower steps. each of the crones seemed more feeble than the last. when they reached the ground they continued down, into the heart of visenya's hill. the steps ended well below the earth, where a line of flickering torches lit a long hallway. she found the high septon waiting for her in a small seven-sided audience chamber. the room was sparse and plain, with bare stone walls, a rough-hewn table, three chairs, and a prayer bench. the faces of the seven had been carved into the walls. cersei thought the carvings crude and ugly, but there was a certain power to them, especially about the eyes, orbs of onyx, malachite, and yellow moonstone that somehow made the faces come alive. you spoke with the queen, the high septon said. she resisted the urge to say, i am the queen. i did. all men sin, even kings and queens. i have sinned myself, and been forgiven. without confession, though, there can be no forgiveness. the queen will not confess. perhaps she is innocent. she is not. holy septas have examined her, and testify that her maidenhead is broken. she has drunk of moon tea, to murder the fruit of her fornications in her womb. an anointed knight has sworn upon his sword to having carnal knowledge of her and two of her three cousins. others have lain with her as well, he says, and names many names of men both great and humble. my gold cloaks have taken all of them to the dungeons, cersei assured him. only one has yet been questioned, a singer called the blue bard. what he had to say was disturbing. even so, i pray that when my good-daughter is brought to trial, her innocence may yet be proved. she hesitated. tommen loves his little queen so much, your holiness, i fear it might be hard for him or his lords to judge her justly. perhaps the faith should conduct the trial? the high sparrow steepled his thin hands. i have had the selfsame thought, your grace. just as maegor the cruel once took the swords from the faith, so jaehaerys the conciliator deprived us of the scales of judgment. yet who is truly fit to judge a queen, save the seven above and the godsworn below? a sacred court of seven judges shall sit upon this case. three shall be of your female sex. a maiden, a mother, and a crone. who could be more suited to judge the wickedness of women? that would be for the best. to be sure, margaery does have the right to demand that her guilt or innocence be proven by wager of battle. if so, her champion must be one of tommen' s seven. the knights of the kingsguard have served as the rightful champions of king and queen since the days of aegon the conqueror. crown and faith speak as one on this. cersei covered her face with her hands, as if in grief. when she raised her head again, a tear glistened in one eye. these are sad days indeed, she said, but i am pleased to find us so much in agreement. if tommen were here i know he would thank you. together you and i must find the truth. we shall. i must return to the castle. with your leave, i will take ser osney kettleblack back with me. the small council will want to question him, and hear his accusations for themselves. no, said the high septon. it was only a word, one little word, but to cersei it felt like a splash of icy water in the face. she blinked, and her certainty flickered, just a little. ser osney will be held securely, i promise you. he is held securely here. come. i will show you. cersei could feel the eyes of the seven staring at her, eyes of jade and malachite and onyx, and a sudden shiver of fear went through her, cold as ice. i am the queen, she told herself. lord tywin's daughter. reluctantly, she followed. ser osney was not far. the chamber was dark, and closed by a heavy iron door. the high septon produced the key to open it, and took a torch down from the wall to light the room within. after you, your grace. within, osney kettleblack hung naked from the ceiling, swinging from a pair of heavy iron chains. he had been whipped. his back and shoulders been laid almost bare, and cuts and welts crisscrossed his legs and arse as well. the queen could hardly stand to look at him. she turned back to the high septon. what have you done? we have sought after the truth, most earnestly. he told you the truth. he came to you of his own free will and confessed his sins. aye. he did that. i have heard many men confess, your grace, but seldom have i heard a man so pleased to be so guilty. you whipped him! there can be no penance without pain. no man should spare himself the scourge, as i told ser osney. i seldom feel so close to god as when i am being whipped for mine own wickedness, though my darkest sins are no wise near as black as his. b-but, she sputtered, you preach the mother's mercy... ser osney shall taste of that sweet milk in the afterlife. in the seven-pointed star it is written that all sins may be forgiven, but crimes must still be punished. osney kettleblack is guilty of treason and murder, and the wages of treason are death. he is just a priest, he cannot do this. it is not for the faith to condemn a man to death, whatever his offense. whatever his offense. the high septon repeated the words slowly, weighing them. strange to say, your grace, the more diligently we applied the scourge, the more ser osney's offenses seemed to change. he would now have us believe that he never touched margaery tyrell. is that not so, ser osney? osney kettleblack opened his eyes. when he saw the queen standing there before him he ran his tongue across his swollen lips, and said, the wall. you promised me the wall. he is mad, said cersei. you have driven him mad. ser osney, said the high septon, in a firm, clear voice, did you have carnal knowledge of the queen? aye. the chains rattled softly as osney twisted in his shackles. that one there. she's the queen i fucked, the one sent me to kill the old high septon. he never had no guards. i just come in when he was sleeping and pushed a pillow down across his face. cersei whirled, and ran. the high septon tried to seize her, but he was some old sparrow and she was a lioness of the rock. she pushed him aside and burst through the door, slamming it behind her with a clang. the kettleblacks, i need the kettleblacks, i will send in osfryd with the gold cloaks and osmund with the kingsguard, osney will deny it all once they cut him free, and i'll rid myself of this high septon just as i did the other. the four old septas blocked her way and clutched at her with wrinkled hands. she knocked one to the floor and clawed another across the face, and gained the steps. halfway up, she remembered taena merryweather. it made her stumble, panting. seven save me, she prayed. taena knows it all. if they take her too, and whip her... she ran as far as the sept, but no farther. there were women waiting for her there, more septas and silent sisters too, younger than the four old crones below. i am the queen, she shouted, backing away from them. i will have your heads for this, i will have all your heads. let me pass. instead, they laid hands upon her. cersei ran to the altar of the mother, but they caught her there, a score of them, and dragged her kicking up the tower steps. inside the cell three silent sisters held her down as a septa named scolera stripped her bare. she even took her smallclothes. another septa tossed a roughspun shift at her. you cannot do this, the queen kept screaming at them. i am a lannister, unhand me, my brother will kill you, jaime will slice you open from throat to cunt, unhand me! i am the queen! the queen should pray, said septa scolera, before they left her naked in the cold bleak cell. she was not meek margaery tyrell, to don her little shift and submit to such captivity. i will teach them what it means to put a lion in a cage, cersei thought. she tore the shift into a hundred pieces, found a ewer of water and smashed it against the wall, then did the same with the chamber pot. when no one came, she began to pound on the door with her fists. her escort was below, on the plaza: ten lannister guardsmen and ser boros blount. once they hear they'll come free me, and we'll drag the bloody high sparrow back to the red keep in chains. she screamed and kicked and howled until her throat was raw, at the door and at the window. no one shouted back, nor came to rescue her. the cell began to darken. it was growing cold as well. cersei began to shiver. how can they leave me like this, without so much as a fire? i am their queen. she began to regret tearing apart the shift they'd given her. there was a blanket on the pallet in the corner, a threadbare thing of thin brown wool. it was rough and scratchy, but it was all she had. cersei huddled underneath to keep from shivering, and before long she had fallen into an exhausted sleep. the next she knew, a heavy hand was shaking her awake. it was black as pitch inside the cell, and a huge ugly woman was kneeling over her, a candle in her hand. who are you? the queen demanded. are you come to set me free? i am septa unella. i am come to hear you tell of all your murders and fornications. cersei knocked her hand aside. i will have your head. do not presume to touch me. get away. the woman rose. your grace. i will be back in an hour. mayhaps by then you will be ready to confess. an hour and an hour and an hour. so passed the longest night that cersei lannister had ever known, save for the night of joffrey's wedding. her throat was so raw from shouting that she could hardly swallow. the cell turned freezing cold. she had smashed the chamber pot, so she had to squat in a corner to make her water and watch it trickle across the floor. every time she closed her eyes, unella was looming over her again, shaking her and asking her if she wanted to confess her sins. day brought no relief. septa moelle brought her a bowl of some waterly grey gruel as the sun was coming up. cersei flung it at her head. when they brought a fresh ewer of water, though, she was so thirsty that she had no choice but to drink. when they brought another shift, grey and thin and smelling of mildew, she put it on over her nakedness. and that evening when moelle appeared again she ate the bread and fish and demanded wine to wash it down. no wine appeared, only septa unella, making her hourly visit to ask if the queen was ready to confess. what can be happening? cersei wondered, as the thin slice of sky outside her window began to darken once again. why has no one come to pry me out of here? she could not believe that the kettleblacks would abandon their brother. what was her council doing? cravens and traitors. when i get out of here i will have the lot of them beheaded and find better men to take their place. thrice that day she heard the sound of distant shouting drifting up from the plaza, but it was margaery's name that the mob was calling, not hers. it was near dawn on the second day and cersei was licking the last of the porridge from the bottom of the bowl when her cell door swung open unexpectedly to admit lord qyburn. it was all she could do not to throw herself at him. qyburn, she whispered, oh, gods, i am so glad to see your face. take me home. that will not be allowed. you are to be tried before a holy court of seven, for murder, treason, and fornication. cersei was so exhausted that the words seemed nonsensical to her at first. tommen. tell me of my son. is he still king? he is, your grace. he is safe and well, secure within the walls of maegor's holdfast, protected by the kingsguard. he is lonely, though. fretful. he asks for you, and for his little queen. as yet, no one has told him of your... your... ... difficulties? she suggested. what of margaery? she is to be tried as well, by the same court that conducts your trial. i had the blue bard delivered to the high septon, as your grace commanded. he is here now, somewhere down below us. my whisperers tell me that they are whipping him, but so far he is still singing the same sweet song we taught him. the same sweet song. her wits were dull for want of sleep. wat, his real name is wat. if the gods were good, wat might die beneath the lash, leaving margaery with no way to disprove his testimony. where are my knights? ser osfryd... the high septon means to kill his brother osney, his gold cloaks must... osfryd kettleblack no longer commands the city watch. the king has removed him from office and raised the captain of the dragon gate in his place, a certain humfrey waters. cersei was so tired, none of this made any sense. why would tommen do that? the boy is not to blame. when his council puts a decree in front of him, he signs his name and stamps it with his seal. my council... who? who would do that? not you? alas, i have been dismissed from the council, although for the nonce they allow me to continue my work with the eunuch's whisperers. the realm is being ruled by ser harys swyft and grand maester pycelle. they have dispatched a raven to casterly rock, inviting your uncle to return to court and assume the regency. if he means to accept, he had best make haste. mace tyrell has abandoned his siege of storm's end and is marching back to the city with his army, and randyll tarly is reported on his way down from maidenpool as well. has lord merryweather agreed to this? merryweather has resigned his seat on the council and fled back to longtable with his wife, who was the first to bring us news of the... accusations... against your grace. they let taena go. that was the best thing she had heard since the high sparrow had said no. taena could have doomed her. what of lord waters? his ships... if he brings his crews ashore, he should have enough men to... as soon as word of your grace's present troubles reached the river, lord waters raised sail, unshipped his oars, and took his fleet to sea. ser harys fears he means to join lord stannis. pycelle believes that he is sailing to the stepstones, to set himself up as a pirate. all my lovely dromonds. cersei almost laughed. my lord father used to say that bastards are treacherous by nature. would that i had listened. she shivered. i am lost, qyburn. no. he took her hand. hope remains. your grace has the right to prove your innocence by battle. my queen, your champion stands ready. there is no man in all the seven kingdoms who can hope to stand against him. if you will only give the command... this time she did laugh. it was funny, terribly funny, hideously funny. the gods make japes of all our hopes and plans. i have a champion no man can defeat, but i am forbidden to make use of him. i am the queen, qyburn. my honor can only be defended by a sworn brother of the kingsguard. i see. the smile died on qyburn's face. your grace, i am at a loss. i do not know how to counsel you... even in her exhausted, frightened state, the queen knew she dare not trust her fate to a court of sparrows. nor could she count on ser kevan to intervene, after the words that had passed between them at their last meeting. it will have to be a trial by battle. there is no other way. qyburn, for the love you bear me, i beg you, send a message for me. a raven if you can. a rider, if not. you must send to riverrun, to my brother. tell him what has happened, and write... write... yes, your grace? she licked her lips, shivering. come at once. help me. save me. i need you now as i have never needed you before. i love you. i love you. i love you. come at once. as you command. t love you' thrice? thrice. she had to reach him. he will come. i know he will. he must. jaime is my only hope. my queen, said qyburn, have you... forgotten? ser jaime has no sword hand. if he should champion you and lose... we will leave this world together, as we once came into it. he will not lose. not jaime. not with my life at stake. 