ser jaime lannister, all in white, stood beside his father's bier, five fingers curled about the hilt of a golden greatsword. at dusk, the interior of the great sept of baelor turned dim and eerie. the last light of day slanted down through the high windows, washing the towering likenesses of the seven in a red gloom. around their altars, scented candles flickered whilst deep shadows gathered in the transepts and crept silently across the marble floors. the echoes of the evensongs died away as the last mourners were departing. balon swann and loras tyrell remained when the rest had gone. no man can stand a vigil for seven days and seven nights, ser balon said. when did you last sleep, my lord? when my lord father was alive, said jaime. allow me to stand tonight in your stead, ser loras offered. he was not your father. you did not kill him. i did. tyrion may have loosed the crossbow bolt that slew him, but i loosed tyrion. leave me. as my lord commands, said swann. ser loras looked as if he might have argued further, but ser balon took his arm and drew him off. jaime listened to the echoes of their footfalls die away. and then he was alone again with his lord father, amongst the candles and the crystals and the sickly sweet smell of death. his back ached from the weight of his armor, and his legs felt almost numb. he shifted his stance a bit and tightened his fingers around the golden greatsword. he could not wield a sword, but he could hold one. his missing hand was throbbing. that was almost funny. he had more feeling in the hand he'd lost than in the rest of the body that remained to him. my hand is hungry for a sword. i need to kill someone. varys, for a start, but first i'd need to find the rock he's hiding under. i commanded the eunuch to take him to a ship, not to your bedchamber, he told the corpse. the blood is on his hands as much as... as tyrion's. the blood is on his hands as much as mine, he meant to say, but the words stuck in his throat. whatever varys did, i made him do. he had waited in the eunuch's chambers that night, when at last he had decided not to let his little brother die. as he waited, he had sharpened his dagger with one hand, taking a queer comfort from the scrape-scrape-scrape of steel on stone. at the sound of footsteps he stood beside the door. varys entered in a wash of powder and lavender. jaime stepped out behind him, kicked him in the back of the knee, knelt on his chest, and shoved the knife up under his soft white chin, forcing his head up. why, lord varys, he'd said pleasantly, fancy meeting you here. ser jaime? varys panted. you frightened me. i meant to. when he twisted the dagger, a trickle of blood ran down the blade. i was thinking you might help me pluck my brother from his cell before ser ilyn lops his head off. it is an ugly head, i grant you, but he only has the one. yes... well... if you would... remove the blade... yes, gently, as it please my lord, gently, oh, i'm pricked... the eunuch touched his neck and gaped at the blood on his fingers. i have always abhorred the sight of my own blood. you'll have more to abhor shortly, unless you help me. varys struggled to a sitting position. your brother... if the imp should vanish unaccountably from his cell, q-questions would be asked. i would f-fear for my life... your life is mine. i do not care what secrets you know. if tyrion dies, you will not long outlive him, i promise you. ah. the eunuch sucked the blood off his fingers. you ask a dreadful thing... to loose the imp who slew our lovely king. or is it that you believe him innocent? innocent or guilty, jaime had said, like the fool he was, a lannister pays his debts. the words had come so easy. he had not slept since. he could see his brother now, the way the dwarf had grinned beneath the stub of his nose as the torchlight licked his face. you poor stupid blind crippled fool, he'd snarled, in a voice thick with malice. cersei is a lying whore, she's been fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and probably moon boy for all i know. and i am the monster they all say i am. yes, i killed your vile son. he never said he meant to kill our father. if he had, i would have stopped him. then i would be the kinslayer, not him. jaime wondered where varys was hiding. wisely, the master of whisperers had not returned to his own chambers, nor had a search of the red keep turned him up. it might be that the eunuch had taken ship with tyrion, rather than remain to answer awkward questions. if so, the two of them were well out to sea by now, sharing a flagon of arbor gold in the cabin of a galley. unless my brother murdered varys too, and left his corpse to rot beneath the castle. down there, it might be years before his bones were found. jaime had led a dozen guards below, with torches and ropes and lanterns. for hours they had groped through twisting passages, narrow crawl spaces, hidden doors, secret steps, and shafts that plunged down into utter blackness. seldom had he felt so utterly a cripple. a man takes much for granted when he has two hands. ladders, for an instance. even crawling did not come easy; not for nought do they speak of hands and knees. nor could he hold a torch and climb, as others could. and all for naught. they found only darkness, dust, and rats. and dragons, lurking down below. he remembered the sullen orange glow of the coals in the iron dragon's mouth. the brazier warmed a chamber at the bottom of a shaft where half a dozen tunnels met. on the floor he'd found a scuffed mosaic of the three-headed dragon of house targaryen done in tiles of black and red. i know you, kingslayer, the beast seemed to be saying. i have been here all the time, waiting for you to come to me. and it seemed to jaime that he knew that voice, the iron tones that had once belonged to rhaegar, prince of dragonstone. the day had been windy when he said farewell to rhaegar, in the yard of the red keep. the prince had donned his night-black armor, with the three-headed dragon picked out in rubies on his breastplate. your grace, jaime had pleaded, let darry stay to guard the king this once, or ser barristan. their cloaks are as white as mine. prince rhaegar shook his head. my royal sire fears your father more than he does our cousin robert. he wants you close, so lord tywin cannot harm him. i dare not take that crutch away from him at such an hour. jaime's anger had risen up in his throat. i am not a crutch. i am a knight of the kingsguard. then guard the king, ser jon darry snapped at him. when you donned that cloak, you promised to obey. rhaegar had put his hand on jaime's shoulder. when this battle's done i mean to call a council. changes will be made. i meant to do it long ago, but... well, it does no good to speak of roads not taken. we shall talk when i return. those were the last words rhaegar targaryen ever spoke to him. outside the gates an army had assembled, whilst another descended on the trident. so the prince of dragonstone mounted up and donned his tall black helm, and rode forth to his doom. he was more right than he knew. when the battle was done, there were changes made. aerys thought no harm could come to him if he kept me near, he told his father's corpse. isn't that amusing? lord tywin seemed to think so; his smile was wider than before. he seems to enjoy being dead. it was queer, but he felt no grief. where are my tears? where is my rage? jaime lannister had never lacked for rage. father, he told the corpse, it was you who told me that tears were a mark of weakness in a man, so you cannot expect that i should cry for you. a thousand lords and ladies had come that morning to file past the bier, and several thousand smallfolk after noon. they wore somber clothes and solemn faces, but jaime suspected that many and more were secretly delighted to see the great man brought low. even in the west, lord tywin had been more respected than beloved, and king's landing still remembered the sack. of all the mourners, grand maester pycelle had seemed the most distraught. i have served six kings, he told jaime after the second service, whilst sniffing doubtfully about the corpse, but here before us lies the greatest man i ever knew. lord tywin wore no crown, yet he was all a king should be. without his beard, pycelle looked not only old, but feeble. shaving him was the cruelest thing tyrion could have done, thought jaime, who knew what it was to lose a part of yourself, the part that made you who you were. pycelle's beard had been magnificent, white as snow and soft as lambswool, a luxuriant growth that covered cheeks and chin and flowed down almost to his belt. the grand maester had been wont to stroke it when he pontificated. it had given him an air of wisdom, and concealed all manner of unsavory things: the loose skin dangling beneath the old man's jaw, the small querulous mouth and missing teeth, warts and wrinkles and age spots too numerous to count. though pycelle was trying to regrow what he had lost, he was failing. only wisps and tufts sprouted from his wrinkled cheeks and weak chin, so thin that jaime could see the splotchy pink skin beneath. ser jaime, i have seen terrible things in my time, the old man said. wars, battles, murders most foul... i was a boy in oldtown when the grey plague took half the city and three-quarters of the citadel. lord hightower burned every ship in port, closed the gates, and commanded his guards to slay all those who tried to flee, be they men, women, or babes in arms. they killed him when the plague had run its course. on the very day he reopened the port, they dragged him from his horse and slit his throat, and his young son's as well. to this day the ignorant in oldtown will spit at the sound of his name, but quenton hightower did what was needed. your father was that sort of man as well. a man who did what was needed. is that why he looks so pleased with himself? the vapors rising from the corpse were making pycelle's eyes water. the flesh... as the flesh dries, the muscles grow taut and pull his lips upward. that is no smile, only a... a drying, that is all. he blinked back tears. you must excuse me. i am so very tired. leaning heavily on his cane, pycelle tottered slowly from the sept. that one is dying too, jaime realized. small wonder cersei called him useless. to be sure, his sweet sister seemed to think half the court was either useless or treasonous; pycelle, the kings guard, the tyrells, jaime himself... even ser ilyn payne, the silent knight who served as headsman. as king's justice, the dungeons were his responsibility. since he lacked a tongue, payne had largely left the running of those dungeons to his underlings, but cersei held him to blame for tyrion's escape all the same. it was my work, not his, jaime almost told her. instead he had promised to find what answers he could from the chief undergaoler, a bentback old man named rennifer longwaters. i see you wonder, what sort of name is that? the man had cackled when jaime went to question him. it is an old name, 'tis true. i am not one to boast, but there is royal blood in my veins. i am descended from a princess. my father told me the tale when i was a tad of a lad. longwaters had not been a tad of a lad for many a year, to judge from his spotted head and the white hairs growing from his chin. she was the fairest treasure of the maidenvault. lord oakenfist the great admiral lost his heart to her, though he was married to another. she gave their son the bastard name of 'waters' in honor of his father, and he grew to be a great knight, as did his own son, who put the 'long' before the 'waters' so men might know that he was not basely born himself. so i have a little dragon in me. yes, i almost mistook you for aegon the conqueror, jaime had answered. waters was a common bastard name about blackwater bay; old longwaters was more like to be descended from some minor household knight than from a princess. as it matters, though, i have more pressing concerns than your lineage. longwaters inclined his head. the lost prisoner. and the missing gaoler. rugen, the old man supplied. an undergaoler. he had charge of the third level, the black cells. tell me of him, jaime had to say. a bloody farce. he knew who rugen was, even if longwaters did not. unkempt, unshaven, coarse of speech. i misliked the man, 'tis true, i do confess it. rugen was here when i first came, twelve years past. he held his appointment from king aerys. the man was seldom here, it must be said. i made note of it in my reports, my lord. i most suredly did, i give you my word upon it, the word of a man with royal blood. mention that royal blood once more and i may spill some of it, thought jaime. who saw these reports? certain of them went to the master of coin, others to the master of whisperers. all to the chief gaoler and the king's justice. it has always been so in the dungeons. longwaters scratched his nose. rugen was here when need be, my lord. that must be said. the black cells are little used. before your lordship's little brother was sent down, we had grand maester pycelle for a time, and before him lord stark the traitor. there were three others, common men, but lord stark gave them to the night's watch. i did not think it good to free those three, but the papers were in proper order. i made note of that in a report as well, you may be certain of it. tell me of the two gaolers who went to sleep. gaolers? longwaters sniffed. those were no gaolers. they were merely turnkeys. the crown pays wages for twenty turnkeys, my lord, a full score, but during my time we have never had more than twelve. we are supposed to have six undergaolers as well, two on each level, but there are only the three. you and two others? longwaters sniffed again. i am the chief undergaoler, my lord. i am above the undergaolers. i am charged with keeping the counts. if my lord would like to look over my books, he will see that all the figures are exact. longwaters had consulted the great leather-bound book spread out before him. at present, we have four prisoners on the first level and one on the second, in addition to your lordship's brother. the old man frowned. who is fled, to be sure. 'tis true. i will strike him out. he took up a quill and began to sharpen it. six prisoners, jaime thought sourly, while we pay wages for twenty turnkeys, six undergaolers, a chief undergaoler, a gaoler, and a king's justice. i want to question these two turnkeys. rennifer longwaters let up sharpening his quill and peered doubtfully up at jaime. question them, my lord? you heard me. i did, my lord, i suredly did, and yet... my lord may question who he pleases, 'tis true, it is not my place to say that he may not. but, ser, if i may be so bold, i do not think them like to answer. they are dead, my lord. dead? by whose command? your own, i thought, or... the king's, mayhaps? i did not ask. it... it is not my place to question the kingsguard. that was salt for his wound; cersei had used his own men to do her bloody work, them and her precious kettleblacks. you witless fools, jaime had snarled at boros blount and osmund kettleblack later, in a dungeon that stank of blood and death. what did you imagine you were doing? no more'n we was told, my lord. ser boros was shorter than jaime, but heavier. her grace commanded it. your sister. ser osmund hooked a thumb through his swordbelt. she said they were to sleep forever. so my brothers and me, we saw to it. that you did. one corpse sprawled facedown upon the table, like a man passed out at a feast, but it was a puddle of blood beneath his head, not a puddle of wine. the second turnkey had managed to push back from the bench and draw his dagger before someone shoved a longsword through his ribs. his had been the longer, messier end. i told varys no one was to be harmed in this escape, jaime thought, but i should have told my brother and my sister. this was ill done, ser. ser osmund shrugged. they won't be missed. i'll wager they was part of it, along with the one who's gone missing. no, jaime could have told him. varys dosed their wine to make them sleep. if so, we might have coaxed the truth from them.... she's been fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and moon boy for all i know... if i had a suspicious nature i might wonder why you were in such haste to make certain these two were never put to the question. did you need to silence them to conceal your own part in this? us? kettleblack choked on that. all we done was what the queen commanded. on my word as your sworn brother. jaime's phantom fingers twitched as he said, get osney and osfryd down here and clean up this mess you've made. and the next time my sweet sister commands you to kill a man, come to me first. elsewise, stay out of my sight, ser. the words echoed in his head in the dimness of baelor's sept. above him, all the windows had gone black, and he could see the faint light of distant stars. the sun had set for good and all. the stench of death was growing stronger, despite the scented candles. the smell reminded jaime lannister of the pass below the golden tooth, where he had won a glorious victory in the first days of the war. on the morning after the battle, the crows had feasted on victors and vanquished alike, as once they had feasted on rhaegar targaryen after the trident. how much can a crown be worth, when a crow can dine upon a king? there were crows circling the seven towers and great dome of baelor's sept even now, jaime suspected, their black wings beating against the night air as they searched for a way inside. every crow in the seven kingdoms should pay homage to you, father. from castamere to the blackwater, you fed them well. that notion pleased lord tywin; his smile widened further. bloody hell, he's grinning like a bridegroom at his bedding. that was so grotesque it made jaime laugh aloud. the sound echoed through the transepts and crypts and chapels, as if the dead interred within the walls were laughing too. why not? this is more absurd than a mummer's farce, me standing vigil for a father i helped to slay, sending men forth to capture the brother i helped to free... he had commanded ser addam marbrand to search the street of silk. look under every bed, you know how fond my brother is of brothels. the gold cloaks would find more of interest beneath the whores' skirts than beneath their beds. he wondered how many bastard children would be born of the pointless search. unbidden, his thoughts went to brienne of tarth. stupid stubborn ugly wench. he wondered where she was. father, give her strength. almost a prayer... but was it the god he was invoking, the father above whose towering gilded likeness glimmered in the candlelight across the sept? or was he praying to the corpse that lay before him? does it matter? they never listened, either one. the warrior had been jaime's god since he was old enough to hold a sword. other men might be fathers, sons, husbands, but never jaime lannister, whose sword was as golden as his hair. he was a warrior, and that was all he would ever be. i should tell cersei the truth, admit that it was me who freed our little brother from his cell. the truth had worked so splendidly with tyrion, after all. i killed your vile son, and now i'm off to kill your father too. jaime could hear the imp laughing in the gloom. he turned his head to look, but the sound was only his own laughter coming back at him. he closed his eyes, and just as quickly snapped them open. i must not sleep. if he slept, he might dream. oh, how tyrion was sniggering... . a lying whore... fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack... at midnight the hinges on the father's doors gave a groan as several hundred septons filed in for their devotions. some were clad in the cloth-of-silver vestments and crystal coronals that marked the most devout; their humbler brethren wore their crystals on thongs about their necks and cinched white robes with seven-stranded belts, each plait a different color. through the mother's doors marched white septas from their cloister, seven abreast and singing softly, while the silent sisters came single file down the stranger's steps. death's handmaidens were garbed in soft grey, their faces hooded and shawled so only their eyes could be seen. a host of brothers appeared as well, in robes of brown and butternut and dun and even undyed roughspun, belted with lengths of hempen rope. some hung the iron hammer of the smith about their necks, whilst others carried begging bowls. none of the devout paid jaime any mind. they made a circuit of the sept, worshiping at each of the seven altars to honor the seven aspects of the deity. to each god they made sacrifice, to each they sang a hymn. sweet and solemn rose their voices. jaime closed his eyes to listen, but opened them again when he began to sway. i am more weary than i knew. it had been years since his last vigil. and i was younger then, a boy of fifteen years. he had worn no armor then, only a plain white tunic. the sept where he'd spent the night was not a third as large as any of the great sept's seven transepts. jaime had laid his sword across the warrior's knees, piled his armor at his feet, and knelt upon the rough stone floor before the altar. when dawn came his knees were raw and bloody. all knights must bleed, jaime, ser arthur dayne had said, when he saw. blood is the seal of our devotion. with dawn he tapped him on the shoulder; the pale blade was so sharp that even that light touch cut through jaime's tunic, so he bled anew. he never felt it. a boy knelt; a knight rose. the young lion, not the kingslayer. but that was long ago, and the boy was dead. he could not have said when the devotions ended. perhaps he slept, still standing. when the devout had filed out, the great sept grew still once more. the candles were a wall of stars burning in the darkness, though the air was rank with death. jaime shifted his grip upon the golden greatsword. perhaps he should have let ser loras relieve him after all. cersei would have hated that. the knight of flowers was still half a boy, arrogant and vain, but he had it in him to be great, to perform deeds worthy of the white book. the white book would be waiting when this vigil was done, his page open in dumb reproach. i'll hack the bloody book to pieces before i'll fill it full of lies. yet if he would not lie, what could he write but truth? a woman stood before him. it is raining again, he thought when he saw how wet she was. the water was trickling down her cloak to puddle round her feet. how did she get here? i never heard her enter. she was dressed like a tavern wench in a heavy roughspun cloak, badly dyed in mottled browns and fraying at the hem. a hood concealed her face, but he could see the candles dancing in the green pools of her eyes, and when she moved he knew her. cersei. he spoke slowly, like a man waking from a dream, still wondering where he was. what hour is it? the hour of the wolf. his sister lowered her hood, and made a face. the drowned wolf, perhaps. she smiled for him, so sweetly. do you remember the first time i came to you like this? it was some dismal inn off weasel alley, and i put on servant's garb to get past father's guards. i remember. it was eel alley. she wants something of me. why are you here, at this hour? what would you have of me? his last word echoed up and down the sept, mememememe, fading to a whisper. for a moment he dared to hope that all she wanted was the comfort of his arms. speak softly. her voice sounded strange... breathless, almost frightened. jaime, kevan has refused me. he will not serve as hand, he... he knows about us. he said as much. refused? that surprised him. how could he know? he will have read what stannis wrote, but there is no... tyrion knew, she reminded him. who can say what tales that vile dwarf may have told, or to whom? uncle kevan is the least of it. the high septon... tyrion raised him to the crown, when the fat one died. he may know as well. she moved closer. you must be tommen's hand. i do not trust mace tyre 11. what if he had a hand in father's death? he may have been conspiring with tyrion. the imp could be on his way to highgarden... he's not. be my hand, she pleaded, and we'll rule the seven kingdoms together, like a king and his queen. you were robert's queen. and yet you won't be mine. i would, if i dared. but our son —  tommen is no son of mine, no more than joffrey was. his voice was hard. you made them robert's too. his sister flinched. you swore that you would always love me. it is not loving to make me beg. jaime could smell the fear on her, even through the rank stench of the corpse. he wanted to take her in his arms and kiss her, to bury his face in her golden curls and promise her that no one would ever hurt her... not here, he thought, not here in front of the gods, and father. no, he said. i cannot. will not. i need you. i need my other half. he could hear the rain pattering against the windows high above. you are me, i am you. i need you with me. in me. please, jaime. please. jaime looked to make certain lord tywin was not rising from his bier in wrath, but his father lay still and cold, rotting. i was made for a battlefield, not a council chamber. and now it may be that i am unfit even for that. cersei wiped her tears away on a ragged brown sleeve. very well. if it is battlefields you want, battlefields i shall give you. she jerked her hood up angrily. i was a fool to come. i was a fool ever to love you. her footsteps echoed loudly in the quiet, and left damp splotches on the marble floor. dawn caught jaime almost unawares. as the glass in the dome began to lighten, suddenly there were rainbows shimmering off the walls and floors and pillars, bathing lord tywin' s corpse in a haze of many-colored light. the king's hand was rotting visibly. his face had taken on a greenish tinge, and his eyes were deeply sunken, two black pits. fissures had opened in his cheeks, and a foul white fluid was seeping through the joints of his splendid gold-and-crimson armor to pool beneath his body. the septons were the first to see, when they returned for their dawn devotions. they sang their songs and prayed their prayers and wrinkled up their noses, and one of the most devout grew so faint he had to be helped from the sept. shortly after, a flock of novices came swinging censers, and the air grew so thick with incense that the bier seemed cloaked in smoke. all the rainbows vanished in that perfumed mist, yet the stench persisted, a sweet rotten smell that made jaime want to gag. when the doors were opened the tyrells were amongst the first to enter, as befit their rank. margaery had brought a great bouquet of golden roses. she placed them ostentatiously at the foot of lord tywin' s bier but kept one back and held it beneath her nose as she took her seat. so the girl is as clever as she is pretty. tommen could do a deal worse for a queen. others have. margaery's ladies followed her example. cersei waited until the rest were in their places to make her entrance, with tommen at her side. ser osmund kettleblack paced beside them in his white enamel plate and white wool cloak. ... she's been fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and moon boy for all i know... jaime had seen kettleblack naked in the bathhouse, had seen the black hair on his chest, and the coarser thatch between his legs. he pictured that chest pressed against his sister's, that hair scratching the soft skin of her breasts. she would not do that. the imp lied. spun gold and black wire tangled, sweaty. kettleblack' s narrow cheeks clenching each time he thrust. jaime could hear his sister moan. no. a lie. red-eyed and pale, cersei climbed the steps to kneel above their father, drawing tommen down beside her. the boy recoiled at the sight, but his mother seized his wrist before he could pull away. pray, she whispered, and tommen tried. but he was only eight and lord tywin was a horror. one desperate breath of air, then the king began to sob. stop that! cersei said. tommen turned his head and doubled over, retching. his crown fell off and rolled across the marble floor. his mother pulled back in disgust, and all at once the king was running for the doors, as fast as his eight-year-old legs could carry him. ser osmund, relieve me, jaime said sharply, as kettleblack turned to chase the crown. he handed the man the golden sword and went after his king. in the hall of lamps he caught him, beneath the eyes of two dozen startled septas. i'm sorry, tommen wept. i will do better on the morrow. mother says a king must show the way, but the smell made me sick. this will not do. too many eager ears and watching eyes. best we go outside, your grace. jaime led the boy out to where the air was as fresh and clean as king's landing ever got. twoscore gold cloaks had been posted around the plaza to guard the horses and the litters. he took the king off to the side, well away from everyone, and sat him down upon the marble steps. i wasn't scared, the boy insisted. the smell made me sick. didn't it make you sick? how could you bear it, uncle, ser? i have smelled my own hand rotting, when vargo hoat made me wear it for a pendant. a man can bear most anything, if he must, jaime told his son. i have smelled a man roasting, as king aerys cooked him in his own armor. the world is full of horrors, tommen. you can fight them, or laugh at them, or look without seeing... go away inside. tommen considered that. i... i used to go away inside sometimes, he confessed, when joffy... joffrey. cersei stood over them, the wind whipping her skirts around her legs. your brother's name was joffrey. he would never have shamed me so. i never meant to. i wasn't frightened, mother. it was only that your lord father smelled so bad... do you think he smelled any sweeter to me? i have a nose too. she caught his ear and pulled him to his feet. lord tyrell has a nose. did you see him retching in the holy sept? did you see lady margaery bawling like a baby? jaime got to his feet. cersei, enough. her nostrils flared. ser? why are you here? you swore to stand vigil over father until the wake was done, as i recall. it is done. go look at him. no. seven days and seven nights, you said. surely the lord commander remembers how to count to seven. take the number of your fingers, then add two. others had begun to stream out onto the plaza, fleeing the noxious odors in the sept. cersei, keep your voice down, jaime warned. lord tyrell is approaching. that reached her. the queen drew tommen to her side. mace tyrell bowed before them. his grace is not unwell, i hope? the king was overwhelmed by grief, said cersei. as are we all. if there is aught that i can do... high above, a crow screamed loudly. he was perched on the statue of king baelor, shitting on his holy head. there is much and more you can do for tommen, my lord, jaime said. perhaps you would do her grace the honor of supping with her, after the evening services? cersei threw him a withering look, but for once she had the sense to bite her tongue. sup? tyrell seemed taken aback. i suppose... of course, we should be honored. my lady wife and i. the queen forced a smile and made pleasant noises. but when tyrell had taken his leave and tommen had been sent off with ser addam marbrand, she turned on jaime angrily. are you drunk or dreaming, ser? pray tell, why am i having supper with that grasping fool and his puerile wife? a gust of wind stirred her golden hair. i will not name him hand, if that's what —  you need tyrell, jaime broke in, but not here. ask him to capture storm's end for tommen. flatter him, and tell him you need him in the field, to replace father. mace fancies himself a mighty warrior. either he will deliver storm's end to you, or he will muck it up and look a fool. either way, you win. storm's end? cersei looked thoughtful. yes, but... lord tyrell has made it tediously plain that he will not leave king's landing till tommen marries margaery. jaime sighed. then let them wed. it will be years before tommen is old enough to consummate the marriage. and until he does, the union can always be set aside. give tyrell his wedding and send him off to play at war. a wary smile crept across his sister's face. even sieges have their dangers, she murmured. why, our lord of highgarden might even lose his life in such a venture. there is that risk, conceded jaime. especially if his patience runs thin this time, and he elects to storm the gate. cersei gave him a lingering look. you know, she said, for a moment you sounded quite like father. lord tywin lannister had entered the city on a stallion, his enameled crimson armor polished and gleaming, bright with gems and goldwork. he left it in a tall wagon draped with crimson banners, with six silent sisters riding attendance on his bones. the funeral procession departed king's landing through the gate of the gods, wider and more splendid than the lion gate. the choice felt wrong to jaime. his father had been a lion, that no one could deny, but even lord tywin never claimed to be a god. an honor guard of fifty knights surrounded lord tywin' s wagon, crimson pennons fluttering from their lances. the lords of the west followed close behind them. the winds snapped at their banners, making their charges dance and flutter. as he trotted up the column, jaime passed boars, badgers, and beetles, a green arrow and a red ox, crossed halberds, crossed spears, a treecat, a strawberry, a maunch, four sunbursts counterchanged. lord brax was wearing a pale grey doublet slashed with cloth-of-silver, an amethyst unicorn pinned above his heart. lord jast was armored in black steel, three gold lion's heads inlaid on his breastplate. the rumors of his death had not been far wrong, to look at him; wounds and imprisonment had left him a shadow of the man he'd been. lord banefort had weathered battle better, and looked ready to return to war at once. plumm wore purple, prester ermine, moreland russet and green, but each had donned a cloak of crimson silk, in honor of the man they were escorting home. behind the lords came a hundred crossbowmen and three hundred men-at-arms, and crimson flowed from their shoulders as well. in his white cloak and white scale armor, jaime felt out of place amongst that river of red. nor did his uncle make him more at ease. lord commander, ser kevan said, when jaime trotted up beside him at the head of the column. does her grace have some last command for me? i am not here for cersei. a drum began to beat behind them, slow, measured, funereal. dead, it seemed to say, dead, dead. i came to make my farewells. he was my father. and hers. i am not cersei. i have a beard, and she has breasts. if you are still confused, nuncle, count our hands. cersei has two. both of you have a taste for mockery, his uncle said. spare me your japes, ser, i have no taste for them. as you will. this is not going as well as i might have hoped. cersei would have wanted to see you off, but she has many pressing duties. ser kevan snorted. so do we all. how fares your king? his tone made the question a reproach. well enough, jaime said defensively. balon swann is with him during the mornings. a good and valiant knight. once that went without saying when men spoke of those who wore the white cloak. no man can choose his brothers, jaime thought. give me leave to pick my own men, and the kingsguard will be great again. put that baldly, though, it sounded feeble; an empty boast from a man the realm called kingslayer. a man with shit for honor. jaime let it go. he had not come to argue with his uncle. ser, he said, you need to make your peace with cersei. are we at war? no one told me. jaime ignored that. strife between lannister and lannister can only help the enemies of our house. if there is strife, it will not be my doing. cersei wants to rule. well and good. the realm is hers. all i ask is to be left in peace. my place is at darry with my son. the castle must needs be restored, the lands planted and protected. he gave a bark of bitter laughter. and your sister has left me little else to occupy my time. i had as well see lancel wed. his bride has grown impatient waiting for us to make our way to darry. his widow from the twins. his cousin lancel was riding ten yards behind them. with his hollow eyes and dry white hair, he looked older than lord jast. jaime could feel his phantom fingers itching at the sight of him... . fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and moon boy for all i know... he had tried to speak with lancel more times than he could count, but never found him alone. if his father was not with him, some septon was. he may be kevan's son, but he has milk in his veins. tyrion was lying to me. his words were meant to wound. jaime put his cousin from his thoughts and turned back to his uncle. will you remain at darry after the wedding? for a while, mayhaps. sandor clegane is raiding along the trident, it would seem. your sister wants his head. it may be that he has joined dondarrion. jaime had heard about saltpans. by now half the realm had heard. the raid had been exceptionally savage. women raped and mutilated, children butchered in their mothers' arms, half the town put to the torch. randyll tarly is at maidenpool. let him deal with the outlaws. i would sooner have you go to riverrun. ser daven has command there. the warden of the west. he has no need of me. lancel does. as you say, uncle. jaime's head was pounding to the same beat as the drum. dead, dead, dead. you would do well to keep your knights around you. his uncle gave him a cool stare. is that a threat, ser? a threat? the suggestion took him aback. a caution. i only meant... sandor is dangerous. i was hanging outlaws and robber knights when you were still shitting in your swaddling clothes. i am not like to go off and face clegane and dondarrion by myself, if that is what you fear, ser. not every lannister is a fool for glory. why, nuncle, i believe you are talking about me. addam marbrand could deal with these outlaws just as well as you. so could brax, bane fort, plumm, any of these others. but none would make a good king's hand. your sister knows my terms. they have not changed. tell her that, the next time you are in her bedchamber. ser kevan put his heels into his courser and galloped ahead, putting an abrupt end to their conversation. jaime let him go, his missing sword hand twitching. he had hoped against hope that cersei had somehow misunderstood, but plainly that was wrong. he knows about the two of us. about tommen and myrcella. and cersei knows he knows. ser kevan was a lannister of casterly rock. he could not believe that she would ever do him harm, but... i was wrong about tyrion, why not about cersei? when sons were killing fathers, what was there to stop a niece from ordering an uncle slain? an inconvenient uncle, who knows too much. though perhaps cersei was hoping that the hound might do her work for her. if sandor clegane cut down ser kevan, she would not need to bloody her own hands. and he will, if they should meet. kevan lannister had once been a stout man with a sword, but he was no longer young, and the hound... the column had caught up to him. as his cousin rode past, flanked by his two septons, jaime called out to him. lancel. coz. i wanted to congratulate you upon your marriage. i only regret that my duties do not permit me to attend. his grace must be protected. 'and will be. still, i hate to miss your bedding. it is your first marriage and her second, i understand. i'm sure my lady will be pleased to show you what goes where. the bawdy remark drew a laugh from several nearby lords and a disapproving look from lancel' s septons. his cousin squirmed uncomfortably in the saddle. i know enough to do my duty as a husband, ser. that's just the thing a bride wants on her wedding night, said jaime. a husband who knows how to do his duty. a flush crept up lancel' s cheeks. i pray for you, cousin. and for her grace the queen. may the crone lead her to her wisdom and the warrior defend her. why would cersei need the warrior? she has me. jaime turned his horse about, his white cloak snapping in the wind. the imp was lying. cersei would sooner have robert's corpse between her legs than a pious fool like lancel. tyrion, you evil bastard, you should have lied about someone more likely. he galloped past his lord father's funeral wayn toward the city in the distance. the streets of king's landing seemed almost deserted as jaime lannister made his way back to the red keep atop aegon's high hill. the soldiers who had crowded the city's gambling dens and pot shops were largely gone now. garlan the gallant had taken half the tyrell strength back to highgarden, and his lady mother and grandmother had gone with him. the other half had marched south with mace tyrell and mathis rowan to invest storm's end. as for the lannister host, two thousand seasoned veterans remained encamped outside the city walls, awaiting the arrival of paxter redwyne's fleet to carry them across blackwater bay to dragonstone. lord stannis appeared to have left only a small garrison behind him when he sailed north, so two thousand men would be more than sufficient, cersei had judged. the rest of the westermen had gone back to their wives and children, to rebuild their homes, plant their fields, and bring in one last harvest. cersei had taken tommen round their camps before they marched, to let them cheer their little king. she had never looked more beautiful than she did that day, with a smile on her lips and the autumn sunlight shining on her golden hair. whatever else one might say about his sister, she did know how to make men love her when she cared enough to try. as jaime trotted through the castle gates, he came upon two dozen knights riding at a quintain in the outer yard. something else i can no longer do, he thought. a lance was heavier and more cumbersome than a sword, and swords were proving trial enough. he supposed he might try holding the lance with his left hand, but that would mean shifting his shield to his right arm. in a tilt, a man's foe was always to the left. a shield on his right arm would prove about as useful as nipples on his breastplate. no, my jousting days are done, he thought as he dismounted... but all the same, he stopped to watch a while. ser tallad the tall lost his mount when the sandbag came around and thumped him in the head. strongboar struck the shield so hard he cracked it. kennos of kayce finished the destruction. a new shield was hung for ser dermot of the rainwood. lambert turnberry only struck a glancing blow, but beardless jon bettley, humfrey swyft, and alyn stackspear all scored solid hits, and red ronnet connington broke his lance clean. then the knight of flowers mounted up and put the others all to shame. jousting was three-quarters horsemanship, jaime had always believed. ser loras rode superbly, and handled a lance as if he'd been born holding one... which no doubt accounted for his mother's pinched expression. he puts the point just where he means to put it, and seems to have the balance of a cat. perhaps it was not such a fluke that he unhorsed me. it was a shame that he would never have the chance to try the boy again. he left the whole men to their sport. cersei was in her solar in maegor's holdfast, with tommen and lord merryweather's dark- haired myrish wife. the three of them were laughing at grand maester pycelle. did i miss some clever jape? jaime said, as he shoved through the door. oh, look, purred lady merryweather, your brave brother has returned, your grace. most of him. the queen was in her cups, jaime realized. of late, cersei always seemed to have a flagon of wine to hand, she who had once scorned robert baratheon for his drinking. he misliked that, but these days he seemed to mislike everything his sister did. grand maester, she said, share the tidings with the lord commander, if you would. pycelle looked desperately uncomfortable. there has been a bird, he said. from stokeworth. lady tanda sends word that her daughter lollys has been delivered of a strong, healthy son. and you will never guess what they have named the little bastard, brother. they wanted to name him tywin, i recall. yes, but i forbade it. i told falyse that i would not have our father's noble name bestowed upon the ill-gotten spawn of some pig boy and a feeble-witted sow. lady stokeworth insists the child's name was not her doing, grand maester pycelle put in. perspiration dotted his wrinkled forehead. lollys's husband made the choice, she writes. this man bronn, he... it would seem that he... tyrion, ventured jaime. he named the child tyrion. the old man gave a tremulous nod, mopping at his brow with the sleeve of his robe. jaime had to laugh. there you are, sweet sister. you have been looking everywhere for tyrion, and all the time he's been hiding in lollys's womb. droll. you and bronn are both so droll. no doubt the bastard is sucking on one of lollys lackwit's dugs even as we speak, whilst this sellsword looks on, smirking at his little insolence. perhaps this child bears some resemblance to your brother, suggested lady merryweather. he might have been born deformed, or without a nose. she laughed a throaty laugh. we shall have to send the darling boy a gift, the queen declared. won't we, tommen? we could send him a kitten. a lion cub, said lady merryweather. to rip his little throat out, her smile suggested. i had a different sort of gift in mind, said cersei. a new stepfather, most like. jaime knew the look in his sister's eyes. he had seen it before, most recently on the night of tommen' s wedding, when she burned the tower of the hand. the green light of the wildfire had bathed the face of the watchers, so they looked like nothing so much as rotting corpses, a pack of gleeful ghouls, but some of the corpses were prettier than others. even in the baleful glow, cersei had been beautiful to look upon. she'd stood with one hand on her breast, her lips parted, her green eyes shining. she is crying, jaime had realized, but whether it was from grief or ecstasy he could not have said. the sight had filled him with disquiet, reminding him of aerys targaryen and the way a burning would arouse him. a king has no secrets from his kingsguard. relations between aerys and his queen had been strained during the last years of his reign. they slept apart and did their best to avoid each other during the waking hours. but whenever aerys gave a man to the flames, queen rhaella would have a visitor in the night. the day he burned his mace-and-dagger hand, jaime and jon darry had stood at guard outside her bedchamber whilst the king took his pleasure. you're hurting me, they had heard rhaella cry through the oaken door. you're hurting me. in some queer way, that had been worse than lord chelsted's screaming. we are sworn to protect her as well, jaime had finally been driven to say. we are, darry allowed, but not from him. jaime had only seen rhaella once after that, the morning of the day she left for dragonstone. the queen had been cloaked and hooded as she climbed inside the royal wheelhouse that would take her down aegon's high hill to the waiting ship, but he heard her maids whispering after she was gone. they said the queen looked as if some beast had savaged her, clawing at her thighs and chewing on her breasts. a crowned beast, jaime knew. by the end the mad king had become so fearful that he would allow no blade in his presence, save for the swords his kingsguard wore. his beard was matted and unwashed, his hair a silver- gold tangle that reached his waist, his fingernails cracked yellow claws nine inches long. yet still the blades tormented him, the ones he could never escape, the blades of the iron throne. his arms and legs were always covered with scabs and half-healed cuts. let him be king over charred bones and cooked meat, jaime remembered, studying his sister's smile. let him be the king of ashes. your grace, he said, might we have a private word? as you wish. tommen, it is past time you had your lesson for the day. go with the grand maester. yes, mother. we are learning about baelor the blessed. lady merryweather took her leave as well, kissing the queen on both cheeks. shall i return for supper, your grace? i shall be very cross with you if you do not. jaime could not help but note the way the myrish woman moved her hips as she walked. every step is a seduction. when the door closed behind her, he cleared his throat and said, first these kettleblacks, then qyburn, now her. it's a queer menagerie you are keeping these days, sweet sister. i am growing very fond of lady taena. she amuses me. she is one of margaery tyrell's companions, jaime reminded her. she's informing on you to the little queen. of course she is. cersei went to the sideboard to fill her cup anew. margaery was thrilled when i asked her leave to take taena on as my companion. you should have heard her. 'she will be a sister to you, as she's been to me. of course you must have her! i have my cousins and my other ladies.' our little queen does not want me to be lonely. if you know she is a spy, why take her on? margaery is not half so clever as she thinks. she has no notion what a sweet serpent she has in that myrish slut. i use taena to feed the little queen what i want her to know. some of it is even true. cersei's eyes were bright with mischief. and taena tells me everything maid margaery is doing. does she? how much do you know about this woman? i know she is a mother, with a young son that she wants to rise high in this world. she will do whatever is required to see that he does. mothers are all the same. lady merryweather may be a serpent, but she is far from stupid. she knows i can do more for her than margaery, so she makes herself useful to me. you would be surprised at all the interesting things she's told me. what sorts of things? cersei sat beneath the window. did you know that the queen of thorns keeps a chest of coins in her wheelhouse? old gold from before the conquest. should any tradesman be so unwise as to name a price in golden coins, she pays him with hands from highgarden, each half the weight of one of our dragons. what merchant would dare complain of being cheated by mace tyrell's lady mother? she sipped her wine, and said, did you enjoy your little ride? our uncle remarked upon your absence. our uncle's remarks do not concern me. they should. you could make good use of him. if not at riverrun or the rock, then in the north against lord stannis. father always relied upon kevan when —  roose bolton is our warden of the north. he will deal with stannis. lord bolton is trapped below the neck, cut off from the north by the ironmen at moat cailin. not for long. bolton's bastard son will soon remove that little obstacle. lord bolton will have two thousand freys to augment his own strength, under lord walder's sons hosteen and aenys. that should be more than enough to deal with stannis and a few thousand broken men. ser kevan—   — will have his hands full at darry, teaching lancel how to wipe his arse. father's death has unmanned him. he is an old done man. daven and damion will serve us better. they'll suffice. jaime had no quarrel with his cousins. you still require a hand, however. if not our uncle, who? his sister laughed. not you. have no fear on that count. perhaps taena's husband. his grandfather was hand under aerys. the horn-of-plenty hand. jaime remembered owen merryweather well enough; an amiable man, but ineffectual. as i recall, he did so well that aerys exiled him and seized his lands. robert gave them back. some, at least. taena would be pleased if orton could recover the rest. is this about pleasing some myrish whore? here i thought it was about governing the realm. i govern the realm. seven save us all, you do. his sister liked to think of herself as lord tywin with teats, but she was wrong. their father had been as relentless and implacable as a glacier, where cersei was all wildfire, especially when thwarted. she had been giddy as a maiden when she learned that stannis had abandoned dragonstone, certain that he had finally given up the fight and sailed away to exile. when word came down from the north that he had turned up again at the wall, her fury had been fearful to behold. she does not lack for wits, but she has no judgment, and no patience. you need a strong hand to help you. a weak ruler needs a strong hand, as aerys needed father. a strong ruler requires only a diligent servant to carry out his orders. she swirled her wine. lord hallyne might suit. he would not be the first pyromancer to serve as the king's hand. no. i killed the last one. there is talk that you mean to make aurane waters the master of ships. has someone been informing on me? when he did not answer, cersei tossed her hair back, and said, waters is well suited to the office. he has spent half his life on ships. half his life? he cannot be more than twenty. two-and-twenty, and what of it? father was not even one-and-twenty when aerys targaryen named him hand. it is past time tommen had some young men about him in place of all these wrinkled greybeards. aurane is strong and vigorous. strong and vigorous and handsome, jaime thought... . she's been fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and moon boy for all i know... paxter redwyne would be a better choice. he commands the largest fleet in westeros. aurane waters could command a skiff, but only if you bought him one. you are a child, jaime. redwyne is tyrell's bannerman, and nephew to that hideous grandmother of his. i want none of lord tyrell's creatures on my council. tommen's council, you mean. you know what i mean. too well. i know that aurane waters is a bad idea, and hallyne is a worse one. as for qyburn... gods be good, cersei, he rode with vargo hoat. the citadel stripped him of his chain! the grey sheep. qyburn has made himself most useful to me. and he is loyal, which is more than i can say of mine own kin. the crows will feast upon us all if you go on this way, sweet sister. cersei, listen to yourself. you are seeing dwarfs in every shadow and making foes of friends. uncle kevan is not your enemy. i am not your enemy. her face twisted in fury. i begged you for your help. i went down on my knees to you, and you refused me! my vows... ... did not stop you slaying aerys. words are wind. you could have had me, but you chose a cloak instead. get out. sister... get out, i said. i am sick of looking at that ugly stump of yours. get out! to speed him on his way, she heaved her wine cup at his head. she missed, but jaime took the hint. evenfall found him sitting alone in the common room of white sword tower, with a cup of dornish red and the white book. he was turning pages with the stump of his sword hand when the knight of flowers entered, removed his cloak and swordbelt and hung them on a wall peg next to jaime's. i saw you in the yard today, said jaime. you rode well. better than well, surely. ser loras poured himself a cup of wine, and took a seat across the half-moon table. a more modest man might have answered 'my lord is too kind,' or t had a good mount.' the horse was adequate, and my lord is as kind as i am modest. loras waved at the book. lord renly always said that books were for maesters. this one is for us. the history of every man who has ever worn a white cloak is written here. i have glanced at it. the shields are pretty. i prefer books with more illuminations. lord renly owned a few with drawings that would turn a septon blind. jaime had to smile. there's none of that here, ser, but the histories will open your eyes. you would do well to know about the lives of those who went before. i do. prince aemon the dragonknight, ser ryam redwyne, the greatheart, barristan the bold... ... gwayne corbray, alyn connington, the demon of darry, aye. you will have heard of lucamore strong as well. ser lucamore the lusty? ser loras seemed amused. three wives and thirty children, was it? they cut his cock off. shall i sing the song for you, my lord? and ser terrence toyne? bedded the king's mistress and died screaming. the lesson is, men who wear white breeches need to keep them tightly laced. gyles greycloak? orivel the open-handed? gyles was a traitor, orivel a coward. men who shamed the white cloak. what is my lord suggesting? little and less. don't take offense where none was meant, ser. how about long tom costayne? ser loras shook his head. he was a kingsguard knight for sixty years. when was that? i've never —  ser donnel of duskendale, then? i may have heard the name, but —  addison hill? the white owl, michael mertyns? jeffory norcross? they called him neveryield. red robert flowers? what can you tell me of them? flowers is a bastard name. so is hill. yet both men rose to command the kingsguard. their tales are in the book. rolland darklyn is in here too. the youngest man ever to serve in the kingsguard, until me. he was given his cloak on a battlefield and died within an hour of donning it. he can't have been very good. good enough. he died, but his king lived. a lot of brave men have worn the white cloak. most have been forgotten. most deserve to be forgotten. the heroes will always be remembered. the best. the best and the worst. so one of us is like to live in song. and a few who were a bit of both. like him. he tapped the page he had been reading. who? ser loras craned his head around to see. ten black pellets on a scarlet field. i do not know those arms. they belonged to criston cole, who served the first viserys and the second aegon. jaime closed the white book. they called him kingmaker. i had hoped that by now you would have grown tired of that wretched beard. all that hair makes you look like robert. his sister had put aside her mourning for a jade-green gown with sleeves of silver myrish lace. an emerald the size of a pigeon's egg hung on a golden chain about her neck. robert's beard was black. mine is gold. gold? or silver? cersei plucked a hair from beneath his chin and held it up. it was grey. all the color is draining out of you, brother. you've become a ghost of what you were, a pale crippled thing. and so bloodless, always in white. she flicked the hair away. i prefer you garbed in crimson and gold. i prefer you dappled in sunlight, with water beading on your naked skin. he wanted to kiss her, carry her to her bedchamber, throw her on the bed... . she's been fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and moon boy... i will make a bargain with you. relieve me of this duty, and my razor is yours to command. her mouth tightened. she had been drinking hot spiced wine and smelled of nutmeg. you presume to dicker with me? need i remind you, you are sworn to obey. i am sworn to protect the king. my place is at his side. your place is wherever he sends you. tommen puts his seal on every paper that you put in front of him. this is your doing, and it's folly. why name daven your warden of the west if you have no faith in him? cersei took a seat beneath the window. behind her jaime could see the blackened ruin of the tower of the hand. why so reluctant, ser? did you lose your courage with your hand? i swore an oath to lady stark, never again to take up arms against the starks or tullys. a drunken promise made with a sword at your throat. how can i defend tommen if i am not with him? by defeating his enemies. father always said that a swift sword stroke is a better defense than any shield. admittedly, most sword strokes require a hand. still, even a crippled lion may inspire fear. i want riverrun. i want brynden tully chained or dead. and someone needs to set harrenhal to rights. we have urgent need of wylis manderly, assuming he is still alive and captive, but the garrison has not replied to any of our ravens. those are gregor's men at harrenhal, jaime reminded her. the mountain liked them cruel and stupid. most like they ate your ravens, messages and all. that's why i'm sending you. they may eat you as well, brave brother, but i trust you'll give them indigestion. cersei smoothed her skirt. i want ser osmund to command the kingsguard in your absence. ... she's been fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and moon boy for all i know... that's not your choice. if i must go, ser loras will command here in my stead. is that a jape? you know how i feel about ser loras. if you had not sent balon swann to dome —  i need him there. these dornishmen cannot be trusted. that red snake championed tyrion, have you forgotten that? i will not leave my daughter to their mercy. and i will not have loras tyrell commanding the kingsguard. ser loras is thrice the man ser osmund is. your notions of manhood have changed somewhat, brother. jaime felt his anger rising. true, loras does not leer at your teats the way ser osmund does, but i hardly think— think about this. cersei slapped his face. jaime made no attempt to block the blow. i see i need a thicker beard, to cushion me against my queen's caresses. he wanted to rip her gown off and turn her blows to kisses. he'd done it before, back when he had two good hands. the queen's eyes were green ice. you had best go, ser. ... lancel, osmund kettleblack, and moon boy... are you deaf as well as maimed? you'll find the door behind you, ser. as you command. jaime turned on his heel and left her. somewhere the gods were laughing. cersei had never taken kindly to being balked, he knew that. softer words might have swayed her, yet of late the very sight of her made him angry. part of him would be glad to put king's landing behind him. he had no taste for the company of the lickspittles and fools who surrounded cersei. the smallest council, they were calling them in flea bottom, according to addam marbrand. and qyburn... he might have saved jaime's life, but he was still a bloody mummer. qyburn stinks of secrets, he warned cersei. that only made her laugh. we all have secrets, brother, she replied. ... she's been fucking lancel and osmund kettleblack and moon boy for all i know... forty knights and as many esquires awaited him outside the red keep's stables. half were westermen sworn to house lannister, the others recent foes turned doubtful friends. ser dermot of the rainwood would carry tommen's standard, red ronnet connington the white banner of the kingsguard. a paege, a piper, and a peckledon would share the honor of squiring for the lord commander. keep friends at your back and foes where you can see them, sumner crakehall had once counseled him. or had that been father? his palfrey was a blood bay, his destrier a magnificent grey stallion. it had been long years since jaime had named any of his horses; he had seen too many die in battle, and that was harder when you named them. but when the piper boy started calling them honor and glory, he laughed and let the names stand. glory wore trappings of lannister crimson; honor was barded in kingsguard white. josmyn peckledon held the palfrey's reins as ser jaime mounted. the squire was skinny as a spear, with long arms and legs, greasy mouse-brown hair, and cheeks soft with peach fuzz. his cloak was lannister crimson, but his surcoat showed the ten purple mullets of his own house arrayed upon a yellow field. my lord, the lad asked, will you be wanting your new hand? wear it, jaime, urged ser kennos of kayce. wave at the smallfolk and give them a tale to tell their children. i think not. jaime would not show the crowds a golden lie. let them see the stump. let them see the cripple. but feel free to make up for my lack, ser kennos. wave with both hands, and waggle your feet if it please you. he gathered the reins in his left hand and wheeled his horse around. payne, he called as the rest were forming up, you'll ride beside me. ser ilyn payne made his way to jaime's side, looking like the beggar at the ball. his ringmail was old and rusted, worn over a stained jack of boiled leather. neither the man nor his mount showed any heraldry; his shield was so hacked and battered it was hard to say what color paint might once have covered it. with his grim face and deep-sunk hollow eyes, ser ilyn might have passed for death himself... as he had, for years. no longer, though. ser ilyn had been half of jaime's price, for swallowing his boy king's command like a good little lord commander. the other half had been ser addam marbrand. i need them, he had told his sister, and cersei had not put up a fight. most like she's pleased to rid herself of them. ser addam was a boyhood friend of jaime's, and the silent headsman had belonged to their father, if he belonged to anyone. payne had been the captain of the hand's guard when he had been heard boasting that it was lord tywin who ruled the seven kingdoms and told king aerys what to do. aerys targaryen took his tongue for that. open the gates, said jaime, and strongboar, in his booming voice, called out, open the gates! when mace tyrell had marched out through the mud gate to the sound of drums and fiddles, thousands lined the streets to cheer him off. little boys had joined the march, striding along beside the tyrell soldiers with heads held high and legs pumping, whilst their sisters threw down kisses from the windows. not so today. a few whores called out invitations as they passed, and a meat pie man cried his wares. in cobbler's square two threadbare sparrows were haranguing several hundred smallfolk, crying doom upon the heads of godless men and demon worshipers. the crowd parted for the column. sparrows and cobblers alike looked on with dull eyes. they like the smell of roses but have no love for lions, jaime observed. my sister would be wise to take note of that. ser ilyn made no reply. the perfect companion for a long ride. i will enjoy his conversation. the greater part of his command awaited him beyond the city walls; ser addam marbrand with his outriders, ser steffon swyft and the baggage train, the holy hundred of old ser bonifer the good, sarsfield's mounted archers, maester gulian with four cages full of ravens, two hundred heavy horse under ser flement brax. not a great host, all in all; fewer than a thousand men in total. numbers were the last thing needed at riverrun. a lannister army already invested the castle, and an even larger force of freys; the last bird they'd received suggested that the besiegers were having difficulty keeping themselves fed. brynden tully had scoured the land clean before retiring behind his walls. not that it required much scouring. from what jaime had seen of the riverlands, scarce a field remained unburnt, a town unsacked, a maiden undespoiled. and now my sweet sister sends me to finish the work that amory lorch and gregor clegane began. it left a bitter taste in his mouth. this near to king's landing, the kingsroad was as safe as any road could be in such times, yet jaime sent marbrand and his outriders ahead to scout. robb stark took me unawares in the whispering wood, he said. that will never happen again. you have my word on it. marbrand seemed visibly relieved to be ahorse again, wearing the smoke-grey cloak of his own house instead of the gold wool of the city watch. if any foe should come within a dozen leagues, you will know of them beforehand. jaime had given stern commands that no man was to depart the column without his leave. elsewise, he knew he would have bored young lordlings racing through the fields, scattering livestock and trampling down the crops. there were still cows and sheep to be seen near the city; apples on the trees and berries in the brush, stands of barleycorn and oats and winter wheat, wayns and oxcarts on the road. farther afield, things would not be so rosy. riding at the front of the host with ser ilyn silent by his side, jaime felt almost content. the sun was warm on his back and the wind riffled through his hair like a woman's fingers. when little lew piper came galloping up with a helm full of blackberries, jaime ate a handful and told the boy to share the rest with his fellow squires and ser ilyn payne. payne seemed as comfortable in his silence as in his rusted ringmail and boiled leather. the clop of his gelding's hooves and the rattle of sword in scabbard whenever he shifted his seat were the only sounds he made. though his pox-scarred face was grim and his eyes as cold as ice on a winter lake, jaime sensed that he was glad he'd come. i gave the man a choice, he reminded himself. he could have refused me and remained king's justice. ser ilyn's appointment had been a wedding gift from robert baratheon to the father of his bride, a sinecure to compensate payne for the tongue he'd lost in the service of house lannister. he made a splendid headsman. he had never botched an execution, and seldom required as much as a second stroke. and there was something about his silence that inspired terror. seldom had a king's justice seemed so well fitted for his office. when jaime decided to take him, he had sought out ser ilyn's chambers at the end of traitor's walk. the upper floor of the squat, half-round tower was divided into cells for prisoners who required some measure of comfort, captive knights or lordlings awaiting ransom or exchange. the entrance to the dungeons proper was at ground level, behind a door of hammered iron and a second of splintery grey wood. on the floors between were rooms set aside for the use of the chief gaoler, the lord confessor, and the king's justice. the justice was a headsman, but by tradition he also had charge of the dungeons and the men who kept them. and for that task, ser ilyn payne was singularly ill suited. as he could neither read, nor write, nor speak, ser ilyn had left the running of the dungeons to his underlings, such as they were. the realm had not had a lord confessor since the second daeron, however, and the last chief gaoler had been a cloth merchant who purchased the office from littlefinger during robert's reign. no doubt he'd had good profit from it for a few years, until he made the error of conspiring with some other rich fools to give the iron throne to stannis. they called themselves antler men, so joff had nailed antlers to their heads before flinging them over the city walls. so it had been left to rennifer longwaters, the head undergaoler with the twisted back who claimed at tedious length to have a drop of dragon in him, to unlock the dungeon doors for jaime and conduct him up the narrow steps inside the walls to the place where ilyn payne had lived for fifteen years. the chambers stank of rotted food, and the rushes were crawling with vermin. as jaime entered, he almost trod upon a rat. payne's greatsword rested on a trestle table, beside a whetstone and a greasy oilcloth. the steel was immaculate, the edge glimmering blue in the pale light, but elsewhere piles of soiled clothing were strewn about the floors, and the bits of mail and armor scattered here and there were red with rust. jaime could not count the broken wine jars. the man cares for naught but killing, he thought, as ser ilyn emerged from a bedchamber that reeked of overflowing chamber pots. his grace bids me win back his riverlands, jaime told him. i would have you with me... if you can bear to give up all of this. silence was his answer, and a long, unblinking stare. but just as he was about to turn and take his leave, payne had given him a nod. and here he rides. jaime glanced at his companion. perhaps there is yet hope for the both of us. that night they made camp beneath the hilltop castle of the hayfords. as the sun went down, a hundred tents sprouted beneath the hill, along the banks of the stream that ran beside it. jaime set the sentries himself. he did not expect trouble this close to the city, but his uncle stafford had once thought himself safe on the oxcross too. it was best to take no chances. when the invitation came down from the castle for him to sup with lady hayford's castellan, jaime took ser ilyn with him, along with ser addam marbrand, ser bonifer hasty, red ronnet connington, strongboar, and a dozen other knights and lordlings. i suppose i ought to wear the hand, he said to peck before making his ascent. the lad fetched it straightaway. the hand was wrought of gold, very lifelike, with inlaid nails of mother-of-pearl, its fingers and thumb half closed so as to slip around a goblet's stem. i cannot fight, but i can drink, jaime reflected as the lad was tightening the straps that bound it to his stump. men shall name you goldenhand from this day forth, my lord, the armorer had assured him the first time he'd fitted it onto jaime's wrist. he was wrong. i shall be the kings layer till i die. the golden hand was the occasion for much admiring comment over supper, at least until jaime knocked over a goblet of wine. then his temper got the best of him. if you admire the bloody thing so much, lop off your own sword hand and you can have it, he told flement brax. after that there was no more talk about his hand, and he managed to drink some wine in peace. the lady of the castle was a lannister by marriage, a plump toddler who had been wed to his cousin tyrek before she was a year old. lady ermesande was duly trotted out for their approval, all trussed up in a little gown of cloth-of-gold, with the green fretty and green pale wavy of house hayford rendered in tiny beads of jade. but soon enough the girl began to squall, whereupon she was promptly whisked off to bed by her wet nurse. has there been no word of our lord tyrek? her castellan asked as a course of trout was served. none. tyrek lannister had vanished during the riots in king's landing whilst jaime himself was still captive at riverrun. the boy would be fourteen by now, assuming he was still alive. i led a search myself, at lord tywin's command, offered addam marbrand as he boned his fish, but i found no more than bywater had before me. the boy was last seen ahorse, when the press of the mob broke the line of gold cloaks. afterward... well, his palfrey was found, but not the rider. most like they pulled him down and slew him. but if that's so, where is his body? the mob let the other corpses lie, why not his? he would be of more value alive, suggested strongboar. any lannister would bring a hefty ransom. no doubt, marbrand agreed, yet no ransom demand was ever made. the boy is simply gone. the boy is dead. jaime had drunk three cups of wine, and his golden hand seemed to be growing heavier and clumsier by the moment. a hook would serve me just as well. if they realized whom they'd killed, no doubt they threw him in the river for fear of my father's wrath. they know the taste of that in king's landing. lord tywin always paid his debts. always, strongboar agreed, and that was the end of that. yet afterward, alone in the tower room he had been offered for the night, jaime found himself wondering. tyrek had served king robert as a squire, side by side with lancel. knowledge could be more valuable than gold, more deadly than a dagger. it was varys he thought of then, smiling and smelling of lavender. the eunuch had agents and informers all over the city. it would have been a simple matter for him to arrange to have tyrek snatched during the confusion... provided he knew beforehand that the mob was like to riot. and varys knew all, or so he would have us believe. yet he gave cersei no warning of that riot. nor did he ride down to the ships to see myrcella off. he opened the shutters. the night was growing cold, and a horned moon rode the sky. his hand shone dully in its light. no good for throttling eunuchs, but heavy enough to smash that slimy smile into a fine red ruin. he wanted to hit someone. jaime found ser ilyn honing his greatsword. it's time, he told the man. the headsman rose and followed, his cracked leather boots scraping against the steep stone steps as they went down the stair. a small courtyard opened off the armory. jaime found two shields there, two halfhelms, and a pair of blunted tourney swords. he offered one to payne and took the other in his left hand as he slid his right through the loops of the shield. his golden fingers were curved enough to hook, but could not grasp, so his hold upon the shield was loose. you were a knight once, ser, jaime said. so was i. let us see what we are now. ser ilyn raised his blade in reply, and jaime moved at once to the attack. payne was as rusty as his ringmail, and not so strong as brienne, yet he met every cut with his own blade, or interposed his shield. they danced beneath the horned moon as the blunted swords sang their steely song. the silent knight was content to let jaime lead the dance for a while, but finally he began to answer stroke for stroke. once he shifted to the attack, he caught jaime on the thigh, on the shoulder, on the forearm. thrice he made his head ring with cuts to the helm. one slash ripped the shield off his right arm, and almost burst the straps that bound his golden hand to his stump. by the time they lowered their swords he was bruised and battered, but the wine had burned away and his head was clear. we will dance again, he promised ser ilyn. on the morrow, and the morrow. every day we'll dance, till i am as good with my left hand as ever i was with the right. ser ilyn opened his mouth and made a clacking sound. a laugh, jaime realized. something twisted in his gut. come morning, none of the others was so bold as to make mention of his bruises. not one of them had heard the sound of swordplay in the night, it would seem. yet when they climbed back down to camp, little lew piper voiced the question the knights and lordlings dared not ask. jaime grinned at him. they have lusty wenches in house hayford. these are love bites, lad. another bright and blustery day was followed by a cloudy one, then three days of rain. wind and water made no matter. the column kept its pace, north along the kingsroad, and each night jaime found some private place to win himself more love bites. they fought inside a stable as a one-eyed mule looked on, and in the cellar of an inn amongst the casks of wine and ale. they fought in the blackened shell of a big stone barn, on a wooded island in a shallow stream, and in an open field as the rain pattered softly against their helms and shields. jaime made excuses for his nightly forays, but he was not so foolish as to think that they were believed. addam marbrand knew what he was about, surely, and some of his other captains must have suspected. but no one spoke of it in his hearing... and since the only witness lacked a tongue, he need not fear anyone learning just how inept a swordsman the kingslayer had become. soon the signs of war could be seen on every hand. weeds and thorns and brushy trees grew high as a horse's head in fields where autumn wheat should be ripening, the kingsroad was bereft of travelers, and wolves ruled the weary world from dusk till dawn. most of the animals were wary enough to keep their distance, but one of marbrand' s outriders had his horse run off and killed when he dismounted for a piss. no beast would be so bold, declared ser bonifer the good, of the stern sad face. these are demons in the skins of wolves, sent to chastise us for our sins. this must have been an uncommonly sinful horse, jaime said, standing over what remained of the poor animal. he gave orders for the rest of the carcass to be cut apart and salted down; it might be they would need the meat. at a place called sow's horn they found a tough old knight named ser roger hogg squatting stubbornly in his towerhouse with six men-at-arms, four crossbowmen, and a score of peasants. ser roger was as big and bristly as his name and ser kennos suggested that he might be some lost crakehall, since their sigil was a brindled boar. strongboar seemed to believe it and spent an earnest hour questioning ser roger about his ancestors. jaime was more interested in what hogg had to say of wolves. we had some trouble with a band of them white star wolves, the old knight told him. they come round sniffing after you, my lord, but we saw them off, and buried three down by the turnips. before them there was a pack of bloody lions, begging your pardon. the one who led them had a manticore on his shield. ser amory lorch, jaime offered. my lord father commanded him to harry the riverlands. which we're no part of, ser roger hogg said stoutly. my fealty's owed to house hayford, and lady ermesande bends her little knee at king's landing, or will when she's old enough to walk. i told him that, but this lorch wasn't much for listening. he slaughtered half my sheep and three good milk goats, and tried to roast me in my tower. my walls are solid stone and eight feet thick, though, so after his fire burned out he rode off bored. the wolves come later, the ones on four legs. they ate the sheep the manticore left me. i got a few good pelts in recompense, but fur don't fill your belly. what should we do, my lord? plant, said jaime, and pray for one last harvest. it was not a hopeful answer, but it was the only one he had. the next day, the column crossed the stream that formed the boundary between the lands that did fealty to king's landing and those beholden to riverrun. maester gulian consulted a map and announced that these hills were held by the brothers wode, a pair of landed knights sworn to harrenhal... but their halls had been earth and timber, and only blackened beams remained of them. no wodes appeared, nor any of their smallfolk, though some outlaws had taken shelter in the root cellar beneath the second brother's keep. one of them wore the ruins of a crimson cloak, but jaime hanged him with the rest. it felt good. this was justice. make a habit of it, lannister, and one day men might call you goldenhand after all. goldenhand the just. the world grew ever greyer as they drew near to harrenhal. they rode beneath slate skies, beside waters that shone old and cold as a sheet of beaten steel. jaime found himself wondering if brienne might have passed this way before him. if she thought that sansa stark had made for riverrun... had they encountered other travelers, he might have stopped to ask if any of them had chance to see a pretty maid with auburn hair, or a big ugly one with a face that would curdle milk. but there was no one on the roads but wolves, and their howling held no answers. across the pewter waters of the lake the towers of black harren's folly appeared at last, five twisted fingers of black, misshapen stone grasping for the sky. though littlefinger had been named the lord of harrenhal, he seemed in no great haste to occupy his new seat, so it had fallen to jaime lannister to sort out harrenhal on his way to riverrun. that it needed sorting out he did not doubt. gregor clegane had wrested the immense, gloomy castle away from the bloody mummers before cersei recalled him to king's landing. no doubt the mountain's men were still rattling around inside like so many dried peas in a suit of plate, but they were not ideally suited to restore the king's peace to the trident. the only peace ser gregor's lot had ever given anyone was the peace of the grave. ser addam's outriders had reported that the gates of harrenhal were closed and barred. jaime drew his men up before them and commanded ser kennos of kayce to sound the horn of herrock, black and twisted and banded in old gold. when three blasts had echoed off the walls, they heard the groan of iron hinges and the gates swung slowly open. so thick were the walls of black harren's folly that jaime passed beneath a dozen murder holes before emerging into sudden sunlight in the yard where he'd bid farewell to the bloody mummers, not so long ago. weeds were sprouting from the hard-packed earth, and flies buzzed about the carcass of a horse. a handful of ser gregor's men emerged from the towers to watch him dismount; hard-eyed, hard-mouthed men, the lot of them. they would have to be, to ride beside the mountain. about the best that could be said for gregor's men was that they were not quite as vile and violent a bunch as the brave companions. fuck me, jaime lannister, blurted one grey and grizzled man-at-arms. it's the bleeding kingslayer, boys. fuck me with a spear! who might you be? jaime asked. ser used to call me shitmouth, if it please m'lord. he spit in his hands and wiped his cheeks with them, as if that would somehow make him more presentable. charming. do you command here? me? shit, no. m'lord. bugger me with a bloody spear. shitmouth had enough crumbs in his beard to feed the garrison. jaime had to laugh. the man took that for encouragement. bugger me with a bloody spear, he said again, and started laughing too. you heard the man, jaime said to ilyn payne. find a nice long spear, and shove it up his arse. ser ilyn did not have a spear, but beardless jon bettley was glad to toss him one. shitmouth' s drunken laughter stopped abruptly. you keep that bloody thing away from me. make up your mind, said jaime. who has the command here? did ser gregor name a castellan? polliver, another man said, only the hound killed him, m'lord. him and the tickler both, and that sarsfreld boy. the hound again. you know it was sandor? you saw him? not us, m'lord. that innkeep told us. it happened at the crossroads inn, my lord. the speaker was a younger man with a mop of sandy hair. he wore the chain of coins that had once belonged to vargo hoat; coins from half a hundred distant cities, silver and gold, copper and bronze, square coins and round coins, triangles and rings and bits of bone. the innkeep swore the man had one side of his face all burned. his whores told the same tale. sandor had some boy with him, a ragged peasant lad. they hacked polly and the tickler to bloody bits and rode off down the trident, we were told. did you send men after them? shitmouth frowned, as if the thought were painful. no, m'lord. fuck us all, we never did. when a dog goes mad you cut his throat. well, the man said, rubbing his mouth, i never much liked polly, that shit, and the dog, he were ser's brother, so... we're bad, m'lord, broke in the man who wore the coins, but you'd need to be mad to face the hound. jaime looked him over. bolder than the rest, and not as drunk as shitmouth. you were afraid ofhim. i wouldn't say afraid, m'lord. i'd say we was leaving him for our betters. someone like ser. or you. me, when i had two hands. jaime did not delude himself. sandor would make short work of him now. you have a name? rafford, if it pleases. most call me raff. raff, gather the garrison together in the hall of a hundred hearths. your captives as well. i'll want to see them. those whores from the crossroads too. oh, and hoat. i was distraught to hear that he had died. i'd like to look upon his head. when they brought it to him, he found that the goat's lips had been sliced off, along with his ears and most of his nose. the crows had supped upon his eyes. it was still recognizably hoat, however. jaime would have known his beard anywhere; an absurd rope of hair two feet long, dangling from a pointed chin. elsewise, only a few leathery strips of flesh still clung to the qohorik's skull. where is the rest ofhim? he asked. no one wanted to tell him. finally, shitmouth lowered his eyes, and muttered, rotted, ser. and et. one of the captives was always begging food, rafford admitted, so ser said to give him roast goat. the qohorik didn't have much meat on him, though. ser took his hands and feet first, then his arms and legs. the fat bugger got most, m'lord, shitmouth offered, but ser, he said to see that all the captives had a taste. and hoat too, his own self. that whoreson 'ud slobber when we fed him, and the grease'd run down into that skinny beard o' his. father, jaime thought, your dogs have both gone mad. he found himself remembering tales he had first heard as a child at casterly rock, of mad lady lothston who bathed in tubs of blood and presided over feasts of human flesh within these very walls. somehow revenge had lost its savor. take this and throw it in the lake. jaime tossed hoat's head to peck, and turned to address the garrison. until such time as lord petyr arrives to claim his seat, ser bonifer hasty shall hold harrenhal in the name of the crown. those of you who wish may join him, if he'll have you. the rest will ride with me to riverrun. the mountain's men looked at one another. we're owed, said one. ser promised us. rich rewards, he said. his very words, shitmouth agreed. rich rewards, for them as rides with me. a dozen others began to yammer their assent. ser bonifer raised a gloved hand. any man who remains with me shall have a hide of land to work, a second hide when he takes a wife, a third at the birth of his first child. land, ser? shitmouth spat. piss on that. if we wanted to grub in the bloody dirt, we could have bloody well stayed home, begging your pardon, ser. rich rewards, ser said. meaning gold. if you have a grievance, go to king's landing and take it up with my sweet sister. jaime turned to rafford. i'll see those captives now. starting with ser wylis manderly. he the fat one? asked rafford. i devoutly hope so. and tell me no sad stories of how he died, or the lot of you are apt to do the same. any hopes he might have nursed of finding shagwell, pyg, or zollo languishing in the dungeons were sadly disappointed. the brave companions had abandoned vargo hoat to a man, it would seem. of lady whent's people, only three remained — the cook who had opened the postern gate for ser gregor, a bent-back armorer called ben blackthumb, and a girl named pia, who was not near as pretty as she had been when jaime saw her last. someone had broken her nose and knocked out half her teeth. the girl fell at jaime's feet when she saw him, sobbing and clinging to his leg with hysterical strength till strongboar pulled her off. no one will hurt you now, he told her, but that only made her sob the louder. the other captives had been better treated. ser wylis manderly was amongst them, along with several other highborn northmen taken prisoner by the mountain that rides in the fighting at the fords of the trident. useful hostages, all worth a goodly ransom. they were ragged, filthy, and shaggy to a man, and some had fresh bruises, cracked teeth, and missing fingers, but their wounds had been washed and bandaged, and none of them had gone hungry. jaime wondered if they had any inkling what they'd been eating, and decided it was better not to inquire. none had any defiance left; especially not ser wylis, a bushy- faced tub of suet with dull eyes and sallow, sagging jowls. when jaime told him that he would be escorted to maidenpool and there put on a ship for white harbor, ser wylis collapsed into a puddle on the floor and sobbed longer and louder than pia had. it took four men to lift him back onto his feet. too much roast goat, jaime reflected. gods, but i hate this bloody castle. harrenhal had seen more horror in its three hundred years than casterly rock had witnessed in three thousand. jaime commanded that fires be lit in the hall of a hundred hearths and sent the cook hobbling back to the kitchens to prepare a hot meal for the men of his column. anything but goat. he took his own supper in hunter's hall with ser bonifer hasty, a solemn stork of a man prone to salting his speech with appeals to the seven. i want none of ser gregor's followers, he declared as he was cutting up a pear as withered as he was, so as to make certain that its nonexistent juice did not stain his pristine purple doublet, embroidered with the white bend cotised of his house. i will not have such sinners in my service. my septon used to say all men were sinners. he was not wrong, ser bonifer allowed, but some sins are blacker than others, and fouler in the nostrils of the seven. and you have no more nose than my little brother, or my own sins would have you choking on that pear. very well. i'll take gregor's lot off your hands. he could always find a use for fighters. if nothing else, he could send them up the ladders first, should he need to storm the walls of riverrun. take the whore as well, ser bonifer urged. you know the one. the girl from the dungeons. pia. the last time he had been here, qyburn had sent the girl to his bed, thinking that would please him. but the pia they had brought up from the dungeons was a different creature from the sweet, simple, giggly creature who'd crawled beneath his blankets. she had made the mistake of speaking when ser gregor wanted quiet, so the mountain had smashed her teeth to splinters with a mailed fist and broken her pretty little nose as well. he would have done worse, no doubt, if cersei had not called him down to king's landing to face the red viper's spear. jaime would not mourn him. pia was born in this castle, he told ser bonifer. it is the only home she has ever known. she is a font of corruption, said ser bonifer. i won't have her near my men, flaunting her... parts. i expect her flaunting days are done, he said, but if you find her that objectionable, i'll take her. he could make her a washerwoman, he supposed. his squires did not mind raising his tent, grooming his horse, or cleaning his armor, but the task of caring for his clothes struck them as unmanly. can you hold harrenhal with just your holy hundred? jaime asked. they should actually be called the holy eighty-six, having lost fourteen men upon the blackwater, but no doubt ser bonifer would fill up his ranks again as soon as he found some sufficiently pious recruits. i anticipate no difficulty. the crone will light our way, and the warrior will give strength to our arms. or else the stranger will turn up for the whole holy lot of you. jaime could not be certain who had convinced his sister that ser bonifer should be named castellan of harrenhal, but the appointment smelled of orton merryweather. hasty had once served merryweather's grandsire, he seemed to recall dimly. and the carrot -haired justiciar was just the sort of simpleminded fool to assume that someone called the good was the very potion the riverlands required to heal the wounds left by roose bolton, vargo hoat, and gregor clegane. but he might not be wrong. hasty hailed from the stormlands, so had neither friends nor foes along the trident; no blood feuds, no debts to pay, no cronies to reward. he was sober, just, and dutiful, and his holy eighty-six were as well disciplined as any soldiers in the seven kingdoms, and made a lovely sight as they wheeled and pranced their tall grey geldings. littlefinger had once quipped that ser bonifer must have gelded the riders too, so spotless was their repute. all the same, jaime wondered about any soldiers who were better known for their lovely horses than for the foes they'd slain. they pray well, i suppose, but can they fight? they had not disgraced themselves on the blackwater, so far as he knew, but they had not distinguished themselves either. ser bonifer himself had been a promising knight in his youth, but something had happened to him, a defeat or a disgrace or a near brush with death, and afterward he had decided that jousting was an empty vanity and put away his lance for good and all. harrenhal must be held, though, and baelor butthole here is the man that cersei chose to hold it. this castle has an ill repute, he warned him, and one that's well deserved. it's said that harren and his sons still walk the halls by night, afire. those who look upon them burst into flame. i fear no shade, ser. it is written in the seven-pointed star that spirits, wights, and revenants cannot harm a pious man, so long as he is armored in his faith. then armor yourself in faith, by all means, but wear a suit of mail and plate as well. every man who holds this castle seems to come to a bad end. the mountain, the goat, even my father... if you will forgive my saying so, they were not godly men, as we are. the warrior defends us, and help is always near, if some dread foe should threaten. maester gulian will be remaining with his ravens, lord lancel is nearby at darry with his garrison, and lord randyll holds maidenpool. together we three shall hunt down and destroy whatever outlaws prowl these parts. once that is done, the seven will guide the goodfolk back to their villages to plow and plant and build anew. the ones the goat didn't kill, at least. jaime hooked his golden fingers round the stem of his wine goblet. if any of hoat's brave companions fall into your hands, send word to me at once. the stranger might have made off with the goat before jaime could get around to him, but fat zollo was still out there, with shagwell, rorge, faithful urswyck, and the rest. so you can torture them and kill them? i suppose you would forgive them, in my place? if they made sincere repentance for their sins... yes, i would embrace them all as brothers and pray with them before i sent them to the block. sins may be forgiven. crimes require punishment. hasty folded his hands before him like a steeple, in a way that reminded jaime uncomfortably of his father. if it is sandor clegane that we encounter, what would you have me do? pray hard, jaime thought, and run. send him to join his beloved brother and be glad the gods made seven hells. one would never be enough to hold both of the cleganes. he pushed himself awkwardly to his feet. beric dondarrion is a different matter. should you capture him, hold him for my return. i'll want to march him back to king's landing with a rope about his neck, and have ser ilyn take his head off where half the realm can see. and this myrish priest who runs with him? it is said he spreads his false faith everywhere. kill him, kiss him, or pray with him, as you please. i have no wish to kiss the man, my lord. no doubt he'd say the same of you. jaime's smile turned into a yawn. my pardons. i shall take my leave of you, if you have no objections. none, my lord, said hasty. no doubt he wished to pray. jaime wished to fight. he took the steps two at a time, out to where the night air was cold and crisp. in the torchlit yard strongboar and ser flement brax were having at each other whilst a ring of men-at-arms cheered them on. ser lyle will have the best of that one, he knew. i need to find ser ilyn. his fingers had the itch again. his footsteps took him away from the noise and the light. he passed beneath the covered bridge and through the flowstone yard before he realized where he was headed. as he neared the bear pit, he saw the glow of a lantern, its pale wintry light washing over the tiers of steep stone seats. someone has come before me, it would seem. the pit would be a fine place to dance; perhaps ser ilyn had anticipated him. but the knight standing over the pit was bigger; a husky, bearded man in a red-and-white surcoat adorned with griffins. connington. what's he doing here? below, the carcass of the bear still sprawled upon the sands, though only bones and ragged fur remained, half-buried. jaime felt a pang of pity for the beast. at least he died in battle. ser ronnet, he called, have you lost your way? it is a large castle, i know. red ronnet raised his lantern. i wished to see where the bear danced with the maiden not-so- fair. his beard shone in the light as if it were afire. jaime could smell wine on his breath. is it true the wench fought naked? naked? no. he wondered how that wrinkle had been added to the story. the mummers put her in a pink silk gown and shoved a tourney sword into her hand. the goat wanted her death to be amuthing. elsewise... ... the sight of brienne naked might have made the bear flee in terror. connington laughed. jaime did not. you speak as if you know the lady. i was betrothed to her. that took him by surprise. brienne had never mentioned a betrothal. her father made a match for her... thrice, said connington. i was the second. my father's notion. i had heard the wench was ugly, and i told him so, but he said all women were the same once you blew the candle out. your father. jaime eyed red ronnet's surcoat, where two griffins faced each other on a field of red and white. dancing griffins. our late hand's... brother, was he? cousin. lord jon had no brothers. no. it all came back to him. jon connington had been prince rhaegar's friend. when merryweather failed so dismally to contain robert's rebellion and prince rhaegar could not be found, aerys had turned to the next best thing, and raised connington to the handship. but the mad king was always chopping off his hands. he had chopped lord jon after the battle of the bells, stripping him of honors, lands, and wealth, and packing him off across the sea to die in exile, where he soon drank himself to death. the cousin, though — red ronnet's father — had joined the rebellion and been rewarded with griffin's roost after the trident. he only got the castle, though; robert kept the gold, and bestowed the greater part of the connington lands on more fervent supporters. ser ronnet was a landed knight, no more. for any such, the maid of tarth would have been a sweet plum indeed. how is it that you did not wed? jaime asked him. why, i went to tarth and saw her. i had six years on her, yet the wench could look me in the eye. she was a sow in silk, though most sows have bigger teats. when she tried to talk she almost choked on her own tongue. i gave her a rose and told her it was all that she would ever have from me. connington glanced into the pit. the bear was less hairy than that freak, i'll —  jaime's golden hand cracked him across the mouth so hard the other knight went stumbling down the steps. his lantern fell and smashed, and the oil spread out, burning. you are speaking of a highborn lady, ser. call her by her name. call her brienne. connington edged away from the spreading flames on his hands and knees. brienne. if it please my lord. he spat a glob of blood at jaime's foot. brienne the beauty. the fields outside the walls of darry were being tilled once more. the burned crops had been plowed under, and ser addam's scouts reported seeing women in the furrows pulling weeds, whilst a team of oxen broke new ground on the edge of a nearby wood. a dozen bearded men with axes stood guard over them as they worked. by the time jaime and his column reached the castle, all of them had fled within the walls. he found darry closed to him, just as harrenhal had been. a chilly welcome from mine own blood. sound the horn, he commanded. ser kennos of kayce unslung the horn of herrock and let it wind. as he waited for a response from the castle, jaime eyed the banner floating brown and crimson above his cousin's barbican. lancel had taken to quartering the lion of lannister with the darry plowman, it would seem. he saw his uncle's hand in that, as in lancel's choice of bride. house darry had ruled these lands since the andals cast down the first men. no doubt ser kevan realized that his son would have an easier time of it if the peasants saw him as a continuation of the old line, holding these lands by right of marriage rather than royal decree. kevan should be tommen's hand. harys swyft is a toad, and my sister is a fool if she thinks elsewise. the castle gates swung open slowly. my coz will not have room to accommodate a thousand men, jaime told strongboar. we'll make camp beneath the western wall. i want the perimeters ditched and staked. there are still bands of outlaws in these parts. they'd need to be mad to attack a force as strong as ours. mad or starving. until he had a better notion of these outlaws and their strength, jaime was not inclined to take any risks with his defenses. ditched and staked, he said again, before spurring honor toward the gate. ser dermot rode beside him with the royal stag and lion, and ser hugo vance with the white standard of the kingsguard. jaime had charged red ronnet with the task of delivering wylis manderly to maidenpool, so he would not need to look on him henceforth. pia rode with jaime's squires, on the gelding peck had found for her. it's like some toy castle, jaime heard her say. she's known no home but harrenhal, he reflected. every castle in the realm will seem small to her, except the rock. josmyn peckleton was saying the same thing. you must not judge by harrenhal. black harren built too big. pia listened as solemnly as a girl of five being lessoned by her septa. that's all she is, a little girl in a woman's body, scarred and scared. peck was taken with her, though. jaime suspected that the boy had never known a woman, and pia was still pretty enough, so long as she kept her mouth closed. there's no harm in him bedding her, i suppose, so long as she's willing. one of the mountain's men had tried to rape the girl at harrenhal, and had seemed honestly perplexed when jaime commanded ilyn payne to take his head off. i had her before, a hunnerd times, he kept saying as they forced him to his knees. a hunnerd times, m'lord. we all had her. when ser ilyn presented pia with his head, she had smiled through her ruined teeth. darry had changed hands several times during the fighting, and its castle had been burned once and sacked at least twice, but lancel had seemingly wasted little time setting things to rights. the castle gates were newly hung, raw oaken planks reinforced with iron studs. a new stable was going up where an older one had been put to the torch. the steps to the keep had been replaced, and the shutters on many of the windows. blackened stones showed where the flames had licked, but time and rain would fade those. within the walls, crossbowmen walked the ramparts, some in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms, others in the blue and grey of house frey. as jaime trotted across the yard, chickens ran out from under honor's hooves, sheep bleated, and peasants stared at him with sullen eyes. armed peasants, he did not fail to note. some had scythes, some staves, some hoes sharpened to cruel points. there were axes in evidence as well, and he spied several bearded men with red, seven-pointed stars sewn onto ragged, filthy tunics. more bloody sparrows. where do they all come from? of his uncle kevan he saw no sign. nor of lancel. only a maester emerged to greet him, with a grey robe flapping about his skinny legs. lord commander, darry is honored by this... unexpected visit. you must forgive our lack of preparations. we had been given to understand that you were bound for riverrun. darry was on my way, lied jaime. riverrun will keep. and if perchance the siege had ended before he reached the castle, he would be spared the need to take up arms against house tully. dismounting, he handed honor to a stableboy. will i find my uncle here? he did not supply a name. ser kevan was the only uncle he had left, the last surviving son of tytos lannister. no, my lord. ser kevan took his leave of us after the wedding. the maester pulled at the chain collar, as if it had grown too tight for him. i know lord lancel will be pleased to see you and... and all your gallant knights. though it pains me to confess that darry cannot feed so many. we have our own provisions. you are? maester ottomore, if it please my lord. lady amerei wished to welcome you herself, but she is seeing to the preparation of a feast in your honor. it is her hope that you and your chief knights and captains will join us at table this evening. a hot meal would be most welcome. the days have been cold and wet. jaime glanced about the yard, at the bearded faces of the sparrows. too many. and too many freys as well. where will i find hardstone? we had a report of outlaws beyond the trident. ser harwyn took five knights and twenty archers and went to deal with them. and lord lancel? he is at his prayers. his lordship has commanded us never to disturb him when he is praying. he and ser bonifer should get on well. very well. there would be time enough to talk with his cousin later. show me to my chambers and have a bath brought up. if it please my lord, we have put you in the plowman's keep. i will show you there. i know the way. jaime was no stranger to this castle. he and cersei had been guests here twice before, once on their way to winterfell with robert, and again on the way back to king's landing. though small as castles went, it was larger than an inn, with good hunting along the river. robert baratheon had never been never loath to impose upon the hospitality of his subjects. the keep was much as he recalled it. the walls are still bare, jaime observed as the maester led him down a gallery. lord lancel hopes one day to cover them with hangings, said ottomore. scenes of piety and devotion. piety and devotion. it was all he could do not to laugh. the walls had been bare on his first visit too. tyrion had pointed out the squares of darker stone where tapestries had once hung. ser raymun could remove the hangings, but not the marks they'd left. later, the imp had slipped a handful of stags to one of darry's serving men for the key to the cellar where the missing tapestries were hidden. he showed them to jaime by the light of a candle, grinning; woven portraits of all the targaryen kings, from the first aegon to the second aenys. if i tell robert, mayhaps he'll make me lord of darry, the dwarf said, chortling. maester ottomore led jaime to the top of the keep. i trust you will be comfortable here, my lord. there is a privy, when nature calls. your window looks out upon the godswood. the bedchamber adjoins her ladyship's, with a servant's cell between. these were lord darry's own apartments. yes, my lord. my cousin is too kind. i did not intend to put lancel out of his own bedchamber. lord lancel has been sleeping in the sept. sleeping with the mother and the maiden, when he has a warm wife just through that door? jaime did not know whether to laugh or weep. maybe he is praying for his cock to harden. in king's landing it had been rumored that lancel's wounds had left him incapable. still, he ought to have sense enough to try. his cousin's hold on his new lands would not be secure until he fathered a son on his half-darry wife. jaime had begun to rue the impulse that had brought him here. he gave thanks to ottomore, reminded him about the bath, and had peck see him out. the lord's bedchamber had changed since his last visit, and not for the better. old stale rushes covered the floor in place of the fine myrish carpet that had been there previously, and all the furnishings were new and crudely made. ser raymun darry's bed had been large enough to sleep six, with brown velvet draperies and oakwood posts carved with vines and leaves; lancel's was a lumpy straw pallet, placed beneath the window where the first light of day would be sure to wake him. the other bed had no doubt been burned or smashed or stolen, but even so... when the tub arrived, little lew pulled off jaime's boots and helped remove his golden hand. peck and garrett hauled water, and pia found him something clean to sup in. the girl glanced at him shyly as she shook his doublet out. jaime was uncomfortably aware of the curve of hip and breast beneath her roughspun brown dress. he found himself remembering the things that pia had whispered to him at harrenhal, the night that qyburn sent her to his bed. sometimes when i'm with some man, she'd said, i close my eyes and pretend it's you on top of me. he was grateful when the bath was deep enough to conceal his arousal. as he lowered himself into the steaming water, he recalled another bath, the one he'd shared with brienne. he had been feverish and weak from loss of blood, and the heat had made him so dizzy he found himself saying things better left unsaid. this time he had no such excuse. remember your vows. pia is more fit for tyrion's bed than yours. fetch me soap and a stiff brush, he told peck. pia, you may leave us. aye, m'lord. thank you, m'lord. she covered her mouth when she spoke, to hide her broken teeth. do you want her? jaime asked peck, when she was gone. the squire turned beet red. if she'll have you, take her. she'll teach you a few things you'll find useful on your wedding night, i don't doubt, and you're not like to get a bastard by her. pia had spread her legs for half his father's army and never quickened; most like the girl was barren. if you bed her, though, be kind to her. kind, my lord? how... how would i... ? sweet words. gentle touches. you don't want to wed her, but so long as you're abed treat her as you would your bride. the lad nodded. my lord, i... where should i take her? there's never a place to... to... ... to be alone? jaime grinned. we'll be at supper several hours. the straw looks lumpy, but it should serve. peck's eyes grew wide. his lordship's bed? you'll feel a lord yourself when you're done, if pia knows her business. and someone ought to make some use of that miserable straw mattress. when he descended for the feast that night, jaime lannister wore a doublet of red velvet slashed with cloth-of-gold, and a golden chain studded with black diamonds. he had strapped on his golden hand as well, polished to a fine bright sheen. this was no fit place to wear his whites. his duty awaited him at riverrun; a darker need had brought him here. darry's great hall was great only by courtesy. trestle tables crowded it from wall to wall, and the ceiling rafters were black with smoke. jaime had been seated on the dais, to the right of lancel's empty chair. will my cousin not be joining us for supper? he asked as he sat down. my lord prefers to fast, said lancel's wife, the lady amerei. he's sick with grief for the poor high septon. she was a long-legged, full-breasted, strapping girl of some eight-and-ten years; a healthy wench to look at her, though her pinched, chinless face reminded jaime of his late and unlamented cousin cleos, who had always looked somewhat like a weasel. fasting? he is an even bigger fool than i suspected. his cousin should be busy fathering a little weasel- faced heir on his widow instead of starving himself to death. he wondered what ser kevan might have had to say about his son's new fervor. could that be the reason for his uncle's abrupt departure? over bowls of bean-and-bacon soup lady amerei told jaime how her first husband had been slain by ser gregor clegane when the freys were still fighting for robb stark. i begged him not to go, but my pate was oh so very brave, and swore he was the man to slay that monster. he wanted to make a great name for himself. we all do. when i was a squire i told myself i'd be the man to slay the smiling knight. the smiling knight? she sounded lost. who was that? the mountain of my boyhood. half as big but twice as mad. an outlaw, long dead. no one who need concern your ladyship. amerei' s lip trembled. tears rolled from her brown eyes. you must forgive my daughter, said an older woman. lady amerei had brought a score of freys to darry with her; a sister, an uncle, a half uncle, various cousins... and her mother, who had been born a darry. she still grieves for her father. outlaws killed him, sobbed lady amerei. father had only gone out to ransom petyr pimple. he brought them the gold they asked for, but they hung him anyway. hanged, ami. your father was not a tapestry. lady mariya turned back to jaime. i believe you knew him, ser. we were squires together once, at crakehall. he would not go so far as to claim they had been friends. when jaime had arrived, merrett frey had been the castle bully, lording it over all the younger boys. then he tried to bully me. he was... very strong. it was the only praise that came to mind. merrett had been slow and clumsy and stupid, but he was strong. you fought against the kingswood brotherhood together, sniffed lady amerei. father used to tell me stories. father used to boast and lie, you mean. we did. frey's chief contributions to the fight had consisted of contracting the pox from a camp follower and getting himself captured by the white fawn. the outlaw queen burned her sigil into his arse before ransoming him back to sumner crakehall. merrett had not been able to sit down for a fortnight, though jaime doubted that the red-hot iron was half so nasty as the kettles of shit his fellow squires made him eat once he was returned. boys are the crudest creatures on the earth. he slipped his golden hand around his wine cup and raised it up. to merrett's memory, he said. it was easier to drink to the man than to talk of him. after the toast lady amerei stopped weeping and the table talk turned to wolves, of the four- footed kind. ser danwell frey claimed there were more of them about than even his grandfather could remember. they've lost all fear of men. packs of them attacked our baggage train on our way down from the twins. our archers had to feather a dozen before the others fled. ser addam marbrand confessed that their own column had faced similar troubles on their way up from king's landing. jaime concentrated on the fare before him, tearing off chunks of bread with his left hand and fumbling at his wine cup with his right. he watched addam marbrand charm the girl beside him, watched steffon swyft refight the battle for king's landing with bread and nuts and carrots. ser kennos pulled a serving girl into his lap, urging her to stroke his horn, whilst ser dermot regaled some squires with tales of knight errantry in the rainwood. farther down the table hugo vance had closed his eyes. brooding on the mysteries of life, thought jaime. that, or napping between courses. he turned back to lady mariya. the outlaws who killed your husband... was it lord beric'sband? so we thought, at first. though lady mariya's hair was streaked with grey, she was still a handsome woman. the killers scattered when they left oldstones. lord vypren tracked one band to fairmarket, but lost them there. black walder led hounds and hunters into hag's mire after the others. the peasants denied seeing them, but when questioned sharply they sang a different song. they spoke of a one-eyed man and another who wore a yellow cloak... and a woman, cloaked and hooded. a woman? he would have thought that the white fawn would have taught merrett to stay clear of outlaw wenches. there was a woman in the kingswood brotherhood as well. i know of her. how not, her tone suggested, when she left her mark upon my husband? the white fawn was young and fair, they say. this hooded woman is neither. the peasants would have us believe that her face was torn and scarred, and her eyes terrible to look upon. they claim she led the outlaws. led them? jaime found that hard to believe. beric dondarrion and the red priest... ... were not seen. lady mariya sounded certain. dondarrion' s dead, said strongboar. the mountain drove a knife through his eye, we have men with us who saw it. that's one tale, said addam marbrand. others will tell you that lord beric can't be killed. ser harwyn says those tales are lies. lady amerei wound a braid around her finger. he has promised me lord beric 's head. he's very gallant. she was blushing beneath her tears. jaime thought back on the head he'd given to pia. he could almost hear his little brother chuckle. whatever became of giving women flowers? tyrion might have asked. he would have had a few choice words for harwyn plumm as well, though gallant would not have been one of them. plumm's brothers were big, fleshy fellows with thick necks and red faces; loud and lusty, quick to laugh, quick to anger, quick to forgive. harwyn was a different sort of plumm; hard- eyed and taciturn, unforgiving... and deadly, with his hammer in his hand. a good man to command a garrison, but not a man to love. although... jaime gazed at lady amerei. the serving men were bringing out the fish course, a river pike baked in a crust of herbs and crushed nuts. lancel's lady tasted it, approved, and commanded that the first portion be served to jaime. as they set the fish before him, she leaned across her husband's place to touch his golden hand. you could kill lord beric, ser jaime. you slew the smiley knight. please, my lord, i beg you, stay and help us with lord beric and the hound. her pale fingers caressed his golden ones. does she think that i can feel that? the sword of the morning slew the smiling knight, my lady. ser arthur dayne, a better knight than me. jaime pulled back his golden fingers and turned once more to lady mariya. how far did black walder track this hooded woman and her men? his hounds picked up their scent again north of hag's mire, the older woman told him. he swears that he was no more than half a day behind them when they vanished into the neck. let them rot there, declared ser kennos cheerfully. if the gods are good, they'll be swallowed up in quicksand or gobbled down by lizard-lions. or taken in by frogeaters, said ser danwell frey. i would not put it past the crannogmen to shelter outlaws. would that it were only them, said lady mariya. some of the river lords are hand in glove with lord beric's men as well. the smallfolk too, sniffed her daughter. ser harwyn says they hide them and feed them, and when he asks where they've gone, they lie. they lie to their own lords! have their tongues out, urged strongboar. good luck getting answers then, said jaime. if you want their help, you need to make them love you. that was how arthur dayne did it, when we rode against the kingswood brotherhood. he paid the smallfolk for the food we ate, brought their grievances to king aerys, expanded the grazing lands around their villages, even won them the right to fell a certain number of trees each year and take a few of the king's deer during the autumn. the forest folk had looked to toyne to defend them, but ser arthur did more for them than the brotherhood could ever hope to do, and won them to our side. after that, the rest was easy. the lord commander speaks wisely, said lady mariya. we shall never be rid of these outlaws until the smallfolk come to love lancel as much as they once loved my father and grandfather. jaime glanced at his cousin's empty place. lancel will never win their love by praying, though. lady amerei put on a pout. ser jaime, i pray you, do not abandon us. my lord has need of you, and so do i. these are such fearful times. some nights i can hardly sleep, for fear. my place is with the king, my lady. i'll come, offered strongboar. once we're done at riverrun, i'll be itching for another fight. not that beric dondarrion is like to give me one. i recall the man from tourneys past. a comely lad in a pretty cloak, he was. slight and callow. that was before he died, said young ser arwood frey. death changed him, the smallfolk say. you can kill him, but he won't stay dead. how do you fight a man like that? and there's the hound as well. he slew twenty men at saltpans. strongboar guffawed. twenty fat innkeeps, maybe. twenty serving men pissing in their breeches. twenty begging brothers armed with bowls. not twenty knights. not me. there is a knight at saltpans, ser arwood insisted. he hid behind his walls whilst clegane and his mad dogs ravaged through his town. you have not seen the things he did, ser. i have. when the reports reached the twins, i rode down with harys haigh and his brother donnel and half a hundred men, archers and men-at-arms. we thought it was lord beric's work, and hoped to find his trail. all that remains of saltpans is the castle, and old ser quincy so frightened he would not open his gates, but shouted down at us from his battlements. the rest is bones and ashes. a whole town. the hound put the buildings to the torch and the people to the sword and rode off laughing. the women... you would not believe what he did to some of the women. i will not speak of it at table. it made me sick to see. i cried when i heard, said lady amerei. jaime sipped his wine. what makes you certain it was the hound? what they were describing sounded more like gregor's work than sandor's. sandor had been hard and brutal, yes, but it was his big brother who was the real monster in house clegane. he was seen, ser arwood said. that helm of his is not easily mistaken, nor forgotten, and there were a few who survived to tell the tale. the girl he raped, some boys who hid, a woman we found trapped beneath a blackened beam, the fisherfolk who watched the butchery from their boats... do not call it butchery, lady mariya said softly. that gives insult to honest butchers everywhere. saltpans was the work of some fell beast in human skin. this is a time for beasts, jaime reflected, for lions and wolves and angry dogs, for ravens and carrion crows. evil work. strongboar filled his cup again. lady mariya, lady amerei, your distress has moved me. you have my word, once riverrun has fallen i shall return to hunt down the hound and kill him for you. dogs do not frighten me. this one should. both men were large and powerful, but sandor clegane was much quicker, and fought with a savagery that lyle crakehall could not hope to match. lady amerei was thrilled, however. you are a true knight, ser lyle, to help a lady in distress. at least she did not call herself a maiden. jaime reached for his cup and knocked it over. the linen tablecloth drank the wine. as the red stain spread, his companions all pretended not to notice. high table courtesy, he told himself, but it tasted just like pity. he rose abruptly. my lady. pray excuse me. lady amerei looked stricken. would you leave us? there's venison to come, and capons stuffed with leeks and mushrooms. very fine, no doubt, but i could not eat another bite. i need to see my cousin. bowing, jaime left them to their food. men were eating in the yard as well. the sparrows had gathered round a dozen cookfires to warm their hands against the chill of dusk and watch fat sausages spit and sizzle above the flames. there had to be a hundred of them. useless mouths. jaime wondered how many sausages his cousin had laid by and how he intended to feed the sparrows once they were gone. they will be eating rats by winter, unless they can get a harvest in. this late in autumn, the chances of another harvest were not good. he found the sept off the castle's inner ward; a windowless, seven-sided, half-timbered building with carved wood doors and a tiled roof. three sparrows sat upon its steps. when jaime approached, they rose. where you going, m'lord? asked one. he was the smallest of the three, but he had the biggest beard. inside. his lordship's in there, praying. his lordship is my cousin. well, then, m'lord, said a different sparrow, a huge bald man with a seven-pointed star painted over one eye, you won't want to bother your cousin at his prayers. lord lancel is asking the father above for guidance, said the third sparrow, the beardless one. a boy, jaime had thought, but her voice marked her for a woman, dressed in shapeless rags and a shirt of rusted mail. he is praying for the soul of the high septon and all the others who have died. they'll still be dead tomorrow, jaime told her. the father above has more time than i do. do you know who i am? some lord, said the big man with the starry eye. some cripple, said the small one with the big beard. the kingslayer, said the woman, but we're no kings, just poor fellows, and you can't go in unless his lordship says you can. she hefted a spiked club, and the small man raised an axe. the doors behind them opened. let my cousin pass in peace, friends, lancel said softly. i have been expecting him. the sparrows moved aside. lancel looked even thinner than he had at king's landing. he was barefoot, and dressed in a plain, roughspun tunic of undyed wool that made him look more like a beggar than a lord. the crown of his head had been shaved smooth, but his beard had grown out a little. to call it peach fuzz would have given insult to the peach. it went queerly with the white hair around his ears. cousin, said jaime when they were alone within the sept, have you lost your bloody wits? i prefer to say i've found my faith. where is your father? gone. we quarreled. lancel knelt before the altar of his other father. will you pray with me, jaime? if i pray nicely, will the father give me a new hand? no. but the warrior will give you courage, the smith will lend you strength, and the crone will give you wisdom. it's a hand i need. the seven gods loomed above carved altars, the dark wood gleaming in the candlelight. a faint smell of incense hung in the air. you sleep down here? each night i make my bed beneath a different altar, and the seven send me visions. baelor the blessed once had visions too. especially when he was fasting. how long has it been since you've eaten? my faith is all the nourishment i need. faith is like porridge. better with milk and honey. i dreamed that you would come. in the dream you knew what i had done. how i'd sinned. you killed me for it. you're more like to kill yourself with all this fasting. didn't baelor the blessed fast himself onto a bier? our lives are candle flames, says the seven-pointed star. any errant puff of wind can snuff us out. death is never far in this world, and seven hells await sinners who do not repent their sins. pray with me, jaime. if i do, will you eat a bowl of porridge? when his coz did not answer, jaime sighed. you should be sleeping with your wife, not with the maid. you need a son with darry blood if you want to keep this castle. a pile of cold stones. i never asked for it. i never wanted it. i only wanted... lancel shuddered. seven save me, but i wanted to be you. jaime had to laugh. better me than blessed baelor. darry needs a lion, coz. so does your little frey. she gets moist between the legs every time someone mentions hardstone. if she hasn't bedded him yet, she will soon. if she loves him, i wish them joy of one another. a lion shouldn't have horns. you took the girl to wife. i said some words and gave her a red cloak, but only to please father. marriage requires consummation. king baelor was made to wed his sister daena, but they never lived as man and wife, and he put her aside as soon as he was crowned. the realm would have been better served if he had closed his eyes and fucked her. i know enough history to know that. in any case, you're not like to be taken for baelor the blessed. no, lancel allowed. he was a rare spirit, pure and brave and innocent, untouched by all the evils of the world. i am a sinner, with much and more to atone for. jaime put his hand on his cousin's shoulder. what do you know of sin, coz? i killed my king. the brave man slays with a sword, the craven with a wineskin. we are both kingslayers, ser. robert was no true king. some might even say that a stag is a lion's natural prey. jaime could feel the bones beneath his cousin's skin... and something else as well. lancel was wearing a hair shirt underneath his tunic. what else did you do, to require so much atonement? tell me. his cousin bowed his head, tears running down his cheeks. those tears were all the answer jaime needed. you killed the king, he said, then you fucked the queen. 'i never... '... lay with my sweet sister? say it. say it! 'never spilled my seed in... in her... '... cunt? suggested jaime. '... womb, lancel finished. it is not treason unless you finish inside. i gave her comfort, after the king died. you were a captive, your father was in the field, and your brother... she was afraid of him, and with good reason. he made me betray her. did he? lancel and ser osmund and how many more? was the part about moon boy just a gibe? did you force her? no! i loved her. i wanted to protect her. you wanted to be me. his phantom fingers itched. the day his sister had come to white sword tower to beg him to renounce his vows, she had laughed after he refused her and boasted of having lied to him a thousand times. jaime had taken that for a clumsy attempt to hurt him as he'd hurt her. it may have been the only true thing that she ever said to me. do not think ill of the queen, lancel pleaded. all flesh is weak, jaime. no harm came of our sin. no... no bastard. no. bastards are seldom made upon the belly. he wondered what his cousin would say if he were to confess his own sins, the three treasons cersei had named joffrey, tommen, and myrcella. i was angry with her grace after the battle, but the high septon said i must forgive her. you confessed your sins to his high holiness, did you? he prayed for me when i was wounded. he was a good man. he's a dead man. they rang the bells for him. he wondered if his cousin had any notion what fruit his words had borne. lancel, you're a bloody fool. you are not wrong, said lancel, but my folly is behind me, ser. i have asked the father above to show me the way, and he has. i am renouncing this lordship and this wife. hardstone is welcome to the both of them, if he likes. on the morrow i will return to king's landing and swear my sword to the new high septon and the seven. i mean to take vows and join the warrior's sons. the boy was not making sense. the warrior's sons were proscribed three hundred years ago. the new high septon has revived them. he's sent out a call for worthy knights to pledge their lives and swords to the service of the seven. the poor fellows are to be restored as well. why would the iron throne allow that? one of the early targaryen kings had fought for years to suppress the two military orders, jaime recalled, though he did not remember which. maegor, perhaps, or the first jaehaerys. tyrion would have known. his high holiness writes that king tommen has given his consent. i will show you the letter, if you like. even if this is true... you are a lion of the rock, a lord. you have a wife, a castle, lands to defend, people to protect. if the gods are good, you will have sons of your blood to follow you. why would you throw all that away for... for some vow? why did you? asked lancel softly. for honor, jaime might have said. for glory. that would have been a lie, though. honor and glory had played their parts, but most of it had been for cersei. a laugh escaped his lips. is it the high septon you're running to, or my sweet sister? pray on that one, coz. pray hard. will you pray with me, jaime? he glanced about the sept, at the gods. the mother, full of mercy. the father, stern in judgment. the warrior, one hand upon his sword. the stranger in the shadows, his half-human face concealed beneath a hooded mantle. i thought that i was the warrior and cersei was the maid, but all the time she was the stranger, hiding her true face from my gaze. pray for me, if you like, he told his cousin. i've forgotten all the words. the sparrows were still fluttering about the steps when jaime stepped back out into the night. thank you, he told them. i feel ever so much holier now. he went and found ser ilyn and a pair of swords. the castle yard was full of eyes and ears. to escape them, they sought out darry's godswood. there were no sparrows there, only trees bare and brooding, their black branches scratching at the sky. a mat of dead leaves crunched beneath their feet. do you see that window, ser? jaime used a sword to point. that was raymun darry's bedchamber. where king robert slept, on our return from winterfell. ned stark's daughter had run off after her wolf savaged joff, you'll recall. my sister wanted the girl to lose a hand. the old penalty, for striking one of the blood royal. robert told her she was cruel and mad. they fought for half the night... well, cersei fought, and robert drank. past midnight, the queen summoned me inside. the king was passed out snoring on the myrish carpet. i asked my sister if she wanted me to carry him to bed. she told me i should carry her to bed, and shrugged out of her robe. i took her on raymun darry's bed after stepping over robert. if his grace had woken i would have killed him there and then. he would not have been the first king to die upon my sword... but you know that story, don't you? he slashed at a tree branch, shearing it in half. as i was fucking her, cersei cried, t want.' i thought that she meant me, but it was the stark girl that she wanted, maimed or dead. the things i do for love. it was only by chance that stark's own men found the girl before me. if i had come on her first... the pockmarks on ser ilyn's face were black holes in the torchlight, as dark as jaime's soul. he made that clacking sound. he is laughing at me, realized jaime lannister. for all i know you fucked my sister too, you pock- faced bastard, he spat out. well, shut your bloody mouth and kill me if you can. the trumpets made a brazen blare, and cut the still blue air of dusk. josmyn peckledon was on his feet at once, scrambling for his master's swordbelt. the boy has good instincts. outlaws don't blow trumpets to herald their arrival, jaime told him. i shan't need my sword. that will be my cousin, the warden of the west. the riders were dismounting when he emerged from his tent; half a dozen knights, and twoscore mounted archers and men-at-arms. jaime! roared a shaggy man clad in gilded ringmail and a fox- fur cloak. so gaunt, and all in white! and bearded too! this? mere stubble, against that mane of yours, coz. ser daven's bristling beard and bushy mustache grew into sidewhiskers as thick as a hedgerow, and those into the tangled yellow thicket atop his head, matted down by the helm he was removing. somewhere in the midst of all that hair lurked a pug nose and a pair of lively hazel eyes. did some outlaw steal your razor? i vowed i would not let my hair be cut until my father was avenged. for a man who looked so leonine, daven lannister sounded oddly sheepish. the young wolf got to karstark first, though. robbed me of my vengeance. he handed his helm to a squire and pushed his fingers through his hair where the weight of the steel had crushed it down. i like a bit of hair. the nights grow colder, and a little foliage helps to keep your face warm. aye, and aunt genna always said i had a brick for a chin. he clasped jaime by the arms. we feared for you after the whispering wood. heard stark's direwolf tore out your throat. did you weep bitter tears for me, coz? half of lannisport was mourning. the female half. ser daven's gaze went to jaime's stump. so it's true. the bastards took your sword hand. i have a new one, made of gold. there's much to be said for being one-handed. i drink less wine for fear of spilling and am seldom inclined to scratch my arse at court. aye, there's that. maybe i should have mine off as well. his cousin laughed. was it catelyn stark who took it? vargo hoat. where do these tales come from? the qohorik? ser daven spat. that's for him and all his brave companions. i told your father i would forage for him, but he refused me. some tasks are fit for lions, he said, but foraging is best left for goats and dogs. lord tywin's very words, jaime knew; he could almost hear his father's voice. come inside, coz. we need to talk. garrett had lit the braziers, and their glowing coals filled jaime's tent with a ruddy heat. ser daven shrugged out of his cloak and tossed it at little lew. you a piper, boy? he growled. you have a runty look to you. i'm lewys piper, if it please my lord. i beat your brother bloody in a melee once. the runty little fool took offense when i asked him if that was his sister dancing naked on his shield. she's the sigil of our house. we don't have a sister. more's the pity. your sigil has nice teats. what sort of man hides behind a naked woman, though? every time i thumped your brother's shield, i felt unchivalrous. enough, said jaime, laughing. leave him be. pia was mulling wine for them, stirring the kettle with a spoon. i need to know what i can expect to find at riverrun. his cousin shrugged. the siege drags on. the blackfish sits inside the castle, we sit outside in our camps. bloody boring, if you want the truth. ser daven seated himself upon a camp stool. tully ought to make a sortie, to remind us all we're still at war. be nice if he culled some freys too. ryman, for a start. the man's drunk more oft than not. oh, and edwyn. not as thick as his father, but as full of hate as a boil's full of pus. and our own ser emmon... no, lord emmon, seven save us, must not forget his new title... our lord of riverrun does nought but try to tell me how to run the siege. he wants me to take the castle without damaging it, since it is now his lordly seat. is that wine hot yet? jaime asked pia. yes, m'lord. the girl covered her mouth when she spoke. peck served the wine on a golden platter. ser daven pulled off his gloves and took a cup. thank you, boy. who might you be? josmyn peckledon, if it please my lord. peck was a hero on the blackwater, jaime said. he slew two knights and captured two more. you must be more dangerous than you look, lad. is that a beard, or did you forget to wash the dirt off your face? stannis baratheon's wife has a thicker mustache. how old are you? fifteen, ser. ser daven snorted. you know the best thing about heroes, jaime? they all die young and leave more women for the rest of us. he tossed the cup back to the squire. fill that full again, and i'll call you hero too. i have a thirst. jaime lifted his own cup left-handed and took a swallow. the warmth spread through his chest. you were speaking of the freys you wanted dead. ryman, edwyn, emmon... and walder rivers, daven said, that whoreson. hates that he's a bastard, and hates everyone who's not. ser perwyn seems a decent fellow, though, might as well spare him. the women too. i'm to marry one, i hear. your father might have seen fit to consult with me about this marriage, by the bye. my own father was treating with paxter redwyne before oxcross, did you know? redwyne has a nicely dowered daughter... desmera? jaime laughed. how well do you like freckles? if my choice is freys or freckles, well... half of lord walder's brood look like stoats. only half? be thankful. i saw lancel's bride at darry. gatehouse ami, gods be good. i couldn't believe that lancel picked that one. what's wrong with that boy? he's grown pious, said jaime, but it wasn't him who did the picking. lady amerei's mother is a darry. our uncle thought she'd help lancel win the darry smallfolk. how, by fucking them? you know why they call her gatehouse ami? she raises her portcullis for every knight who happens by. lancel had best find an armorer to make him a horned helm. that won't be necessary. our coz is off to king's landing to take vows as one of the high septon's swords. ser daven could not have looked more astonished if jaime had told him that lancel had decided to become a mummer's monkey. not truly? you are japing with me. gatehouse ami must be more stoatish than i'd heard if she could drive the boy to that. when jaime had taken his leave of lady amerei, she had been weeping softly at the dissolution of her marriage whilst letting lyle crake hall console her. her tears had not troubled him half so much as the hard looks on the faces of her kin as they stood about the yard. i hope you do not intend to take vows as well, coz, he said to daven. the freys are prickly where marriage contracts are concerned. i would hate to disappoint them again. ser daven snorted. i'll wed and bed my stoat, never fear. i know what happened to robb stark. from what edwyn tells me, though, i'd best pick one who hasn't flowered yet, or i'm like to find that black walder has been there first. i'll wager he's had gatehouse ami, and more than thrice. maybe that explains lancel's godliness, and his father's mood. you have seen ser kevan? aye. he passed here on his way west. i asked him to help us take the castle, but kevan would have none of it. he brooded the whole time he was here. courteous enough, but chilly. i swore to him that i never asked to be made warden of the west, that the honor should have gone to him, and he declared that he held no grudge against me, but you would never have known it from his tone. he stayed three days and hardly said three words to me. would that he'd remained, i could have used his counsel. our friends of frey would not have dared vex ser kevan the way that they've been vexing me. tell me, said jaime. i would, but where to begin? whilst i've been building rams and siege towers, ryman frey has raised a gibbet. every day at dawn he brings forth edmure tully, drapes a noose around his neck, and threatens to hang him unless the castle yields. the blackfish pays his mummer's show no mind, so come evenfall lord edmure is taken down again. his wife's with child, did you know? he hadn't. edmure bedded her, after the red wedding? he was bedding her during the red wedding. roslin's a pretty little thing, hardly stoatish at all. and fond of edmure, queerly. perwyn tells me she's praying for a girl. jaime considered that a moment. once edmure's son is born, lord walder will have no more need of edmure. that's how i see it too. our good-uncle emm... ah, lord emmon, that is... he wants edmure hanged at once. the presence of a tully lord of riverrun distresses him almost as much as the prospective birth of yet another. daily he beseeches me to make ser ryman dangle tully, never mind how. meanwhile, i have lord gawen westerling tugging at my other sleeve. the blackfish has his lady wife inside the castle, along with three of his snot-nosed whelps. his lordship fears tully will kill them if the freys hang edmure. one of them is the young wolfs little queen. jaime had met jeyne westerling, he thought, though he could not recall what she looked like. she must be fair indeed, to have been worth a kingdom. ser brynden won't kill children, he assured his cousin. he's not as black a fish as that. he was beginning to grasp why riverrun had not yet fallen. tell me of your dispositions, coz. we have the castle well encircled. ser ryman and the freys are north of the tumblestone. south of red fork sits lord emmon, with ser forley prester and with what remains of your old host, plus the river lords who came over to us after the red wedding. a sullen lot, i don't mind saying. good for sulking in their tents, but not much more. mine own camp is between the rivers, facing the moat and riverrun's main gates. we've thrown a boom across the red fork, downstream of the castle. manfryd yew and raynard ruttiger have charge of its defense, so no one can escape by boat. i gave them nets as well, to fish. it helps keep us fed. can we starve the castle out? ser daven shook his head. the blackfish expelled all the useless mouths from riverrun and picked this country clean. he has enough stores to keep man and horse alive for two full years. and how well are we provisioned? so long as there are fish in the rivers, we won't starve, though i don't know how we're going to feed the horses. the freys are hauling food and fodder down from the twins, but ser ryman claims he does not have enough to share, so we must forage for ourselves. half the men i send off to look for food do not return. some are deserting. others we find ripening under trees, with ropes about their necks. we came on some, the day before last, said jaime. addam marbrand's scouts had found them, hanging black- faced beneath a crabapple tree. the corpses had been stripped naked, and each man had a crabapple shoved between his teeth. none bore any wounds; plainly, they had yielded. strongboar had grown furious at that, vowing bloody vengeance on the heads of any men who would truss up warriors to die like suckling pigs. it might have been outlaws, ser daven said, when jaime told the tale, or not. there are still bands of northmen about. and these lords of the trident may have bent their knees, but methinks their hearts are still... wolfish. jaime glanced at his two younger squires, who were hovering near the braziers pretending not to listen. lewys piper and garrett paege were both the sons of river lords. he had grown fond of both of them and would hate to have to give them to ser ilyn. the ropes suggest dondarrion to me. your lightning lord's not the only man who knows how to tie a noose. don't get me started on lord beric. he's here, he's there, he's everywhere, but when you send men after him, he melts away like dew. the river lords are helping him, never doubt it. a bloody marcher lord, if you can believe it. one day you hear the man is dead, the next they're saying how he can't be killed. ser daven put his wine cup down. my scouts report fires in the high places at night. signal fires, they think... as if there were a ring of watchers all around us. and there are fires in the villages as well. some new god... no, an old one. thoros is with dondarrion, the fat myrish priest who used to drink with robert. his golden hand was on the table. jaime touched it and watched the gold glimmer in the sullen light of the braziers. we'll deal with dondarrion if we have to, but the blackfish must come first. he has to know his cause is hopeless. have you tried to treat with him? ser ryman did. rode up to the castle gates half-drunk and blustering, making threats. the blackfish appeared on the ramparts long enough to say that he would not waste fair words on foul men. then he put an arrow in the rump of ryman' s palfrey. the horse reared, frey fell into the mud, and i laughed so hard i almost pissed myself. if it had been me inside the castle, i would have put that arrow through ryman's lying throat. i'll wear a gorget when i treat with them, said jaime, with a half smile. i mean to offer him generous terms. if he could end this siege without bloodshed, then it could not be said that he had taken up arms against house tully. you are welcome to try, my lord, but i doubt that words will win the day. we need to storm the castle. there had been a time, not so long ago, when jaime would doubtless have urged the same course. he knew he could not sit here for two years to starve the blackfish out. whatever we do needs to be done quickly, he told ser daven. my place is back at king's landing, with the king. aye, his cousin said. i don't doubt your sister needs you. why did she send off kevan? i thought she'd make him hand. he would not take it. he was not as blind as i was. kevan should be the warden of the west. or you. it's not that i'm not grateful for the honor, mind you, but our uncle's twice my age and has more experience of command. i hope he knows i never asked for this. he knows. how is cersei? as beautiful as ever? radiant. fickle. golden. false as fool's gold. last night he dreamed he'd found her fucking moon boy. he'd killed the fool and smashed his sister's teeth to splinters with his golden hand, just as gregor clegane had done to poor pia. in his dreams jaime always had two hands; one was made of gold, but it worked just like the other. the sooner we are done with riverrun, the sooner i'll be back at cersei's side. what jaime would do then he did not know. he talked with his cousin for another hour before the warden of the west finally took his leave. when he was gone, jaime donned his gold hand and brown cloak to walk amongst the tents. if truth be told, he liked this life. he felt more comfortable amongst soldiers in the field than he ever had at court. and his men seemed comfortable with him as well. at one cookfire three crossbowmen offered him a share of a hare they'd caught. at another a young knight asked his counsel on the best way to defend against a warhammer. down beside the river, he watched two washerwomen jousting in the shallows, mounted on the shoulders of a pair of men-at-arms. the girls were half-drunk and half-naked, laughing and snapping rolled-up cloaks at one another as a dozen other men urged them on. jaime bet a copper star on the blond girl riding raff the sweetling, and lost it when the two of them went down splashing amongst the reeds. across the river wolves were howling, and the wind was gusting through a stand of willows, making their branches writhe and whisper. jaime found ser ilyn payne alone outside his tent, honing his greatsword with a whetstone. come, he said, and the silent knight rose, smiling thinly. he enjoys this, he realized. it pleases him to humiliate me nightly. it might please him even more to kill me. he liked to believe that he was getting better, but the improvement was slow and not without cost. underneath his steel and wool and boiled leather jaime lannister was a tapestry of cuts and scabs and bruises. a sentry challenged them as they led their horses from the camp. jaime clapped the man's shoulder with his golden hand. stay vigilant. there are wolves about. they rode back along the red fork to the ruins of a burned village they had passed that afternoon. it was there they danced their midnight dance, amongst blackened stones and old cold cinders. for a little while jaime had the better of it. perhaps his old skill was coming back, he allowed himself to think. perhaps tonight it would be payne who went to sleep bruised and bloody. it was as if ser ilyn heard his thoughts. he parried jaime's last cut lazily and launched a counterattack that drove jaime back into the river, where his boot slipped out from under him in the mud. he ended on his knees, with the silent knight's sword at his throat and his own lost in the reeds. in the moonlight the pockmarks on payne's face were large as craters. he made that clacking sound that might have been a laugh and drew his sword up jaime's throat till the point came to rest between his lips. only then did he step back and sheathe his steel. i would have done better to challenge raff the sweetling, with a whore upon my back, jaime thought as he shook mud off his gilded hand. part of him wanted to tear the thing off and fling it in the river. it was good for nothing, and the left was not much better. ser ilyn had gone back to the horses, leaving him to find his own feet. at least i still have two of those. the last day of their journey was cold and gusty. the wind rattled amongst the branches in the bare brown woods and made the river reeds bow low along the red fork. even mantled in the winter wool of the kingsguard, jaime could feel the iron teeth of that wind as he rode beside his cousin daven. it was late afternoon when they sighted riverrun, rising from the narrow point where the tumblestone joined the red fork. the tully castle looked like a great stone ship with its prow pointed downriver. its sandstone walls were drenched in red-gold light, and seemed higher and thicker than jaime had remembered. this nut will not crack easily, he thought gloomily. if the blackfish would not listen, he would have no choice but to break the vow he'd made to catelyn stark. the vow he'd sworn his king came first. the boom across the river and the three great camps of the besieging army were just as his cousin had described. ser ryman frey's encampment north of the tumblestone was the largest, and the most disorderly. a great grey gallows loomed above the tents, as tall as any trebuchet. on it stood a solitary figure with a rope about his neck. edmure tully. jaime felt a stab of pity. to keep him standing there day after day, with that noose around his neck... better to have his head off and be done with it. behind the gallows, tents and cookfires spread out in ragged disarray. the frey lordlings and their knights had raised their pavilions comfortably upstream of the latrine trenches; downstream were muddy hovels, wayns, and oxcarts. ser ryman don't want his boys getting bored, so he gives them whores and cockfights and boar baiting, ser daven said. he's even got himself a bloody singer. our aunt brought whitesmile wat from lannisport, if you can believe it, so ryman had to have a singer too. couldn't we just dam the river and drown the whole lot of them, coz? jaime could see archers moving behind the merlons on the castle ramparts. above them streamed the banners of house tully, the silver trout defiant on its striped field of red and blue. but the highest tower flew a different flag; a long white standard emblazoned with the direwolf of stark. the first time i saw riverrun, i was a squire green as summer grass, jaime told his cousin. old sumner crakehall sent me to deliver a message, one he swore could not be entrusted to a raven. lord hoster kept me for a fortnight whilst mulling his reply, and sat me beside his daughter lysa at every meal. small wonder you took the white. i'd have done the same. oh, lysa was not so fearsome as all that. she had been a pretty girl, in truth; dimpled and delicate, with long auburn hair. timid, though. prone to tongue-tied silences and fits of giggles, with none of cersei's fire. her older sister had seemed more interesting, though catelyn was promised to some northern boy, the heir of winterfell... but at that age, no girl interested jaime half so much as hoster's famous brother, who had won renown fighting the ninepenny kings upon the stepstones. at table he had ignored poor lysa, whilst pressing brynden tully for tales of maelys the monstrous and the ebon prince. ser brynden was younger then than i am now, jaime reflected, and i was younger than peck. the nearest ford across the red fork was upstream of the castle. to reach ser daven's camp they had to ride through emmon frey's, past the pavilions of the river lords who had bent their knees and been accepted back into the king's peace. jaime noted the banners of lychester and vance, of roote and goodbrook, the acorns of house smallford and lord piper's dancing maiden, but the banners he did not see gave him pause. the silver eagle of mallister was nowhere in evidence; nor the red horse of bracken, the willow of the rygers, the twining snakes of paege. though all had renewed their fealty to the iron throne, none had come to join the siege. the brackens were fighting the blackwoods, jaime knew, which accounted for their absence, but as for the rest... our new friends are no friends at all. their loyalty goes no deeper than their skins. riverrun had to be taken, and soon. the longer the siege dragged on, the more it would hearten other recalcitrants, like tytos blackwood. at the ford, ser kennos of kayce blew the horn of herrock. that should bring the blackfish to the battlements. ser hugo and ser dermot led jaime's way across the river, splashing through the muddy red-brown waters with the white standard of the kingsguard and tommen's stag and lion streaming in the wind. the rest of the column followed hard behind them. the lannister camp rang to the sound of wooden hammers where a new siege tower was rising. two other towers stood completed, half-covered with raw horsehide. between them sat a rolling ram; a tree trunk with a fire-hardened point suspended on chains beneath a wooden roof. my coz has not been idle, it would seem. my lord, peck asked, where do you want your tent? there, upon that rise. he pointed with his golden hand, though it was not well suited to that task. baggage there, horse lines there. we'll use the latrines my cousin has so kindly dug for us. ser addam, inspect our perimeter with an eye for any weaknesses. jaime did not anticipate an attack, but he had not anticipated the whispering wood either. shall i summon the stoats for a war council? daven asked. not until i've spoken to the blackfish. jaime beckoned to beardless jon bettley. shake out a peace banner and bear a message to the castle. inform ser brynden tully that i would have words with him, at first light on the morrow. i will come to the edge of the moat and meet him on his drawbridge. peck looked alarmed. my lord, the bowmen could... they won't. jaime dismounted. raise my tent and plant my standards. and we'll see who comes running, and how quickly. it did not require long. pia was fussing at a brazier, trying to light the coals. peck went to help her. of late, jaime oft went to sleep to the sound of them fucking in a corner of the tent. as garrett was undoing the clasps on jaime's greaves, the tent flapped open. here at last, are you? boomed his aunt. she filled the door, with her frey husband peering out from behind her. past time. have you no hug for your old fat aunt? she held out her arms and left him no choice but to embrace her. genna lannister had been a shapely woman in her youth, always threatening to overflow her bodice. now the only shape she had was square. her face was broad and smooth, her neck a thick pink pillar, her bosom enormous. she carried enough flesh to make two of her husband. jaime hugged her dutifully and waited for her to pinch his ear. she had been pinching his ear for as long as he could remember, but today she forbore. instead, she planted soft and sloppy kisses on his cheeks. i am sorry for your loss. i had a new hand made, of gold. he showed her. very nice. will they make you a gold father too? lady genna's voice was sharp. tywin was the loss i meant. a man such as tywin lannister comes but once in a thousand years, declared her husband. emmon frey was a fretful man with nervous hands. he might have weighed ten stone... but only wet, and clad in mail. he was a weed in wool, with no chin to speak of, a flaw that the prominence of the apple in his throat made even more absurd. half his hair had been gone before he turned thirty. now he was sixty and only a few white wisps remained. some queer tales have been reaching us of late, lady genna said, after jaime dismissed pia and his squires. a woman hardly knows what to believe. can it be true that tyrion slew tywin? or is that some calumny your sister put about? it's true enough. the weight of his golden hand had grown irksome. he fumbled at the straps that secured it to his wrist. for a son to raise his hand against a father, ser emmon said. monstrous. these are dark days in westeros. i fear for us all with lord tywin gone. you feared for us all when he was here. genna settled her ample rump upon a camp stool, which creaked alarmingly beneath her weight. nephew, speak to us of our son cleos and the manner of his death. jaime undid the last fastening and set his hand aside. we were set upon by outlaws. ser cleos scattered them, but it cost his life. the lie came easy; he could see that it pleased them. the boy had courage, i always said so. it was in his blood. a pinkish froth glistened on ser emmon's lips when he spoke, courtesy of the sourleaf he liked to chew. his bones should be interred beneath the rock, in the hall of heroes, lady genna declared. where was he laid to rest? nowhere. the bloody mummers stripped his corpse and left his flesh to feast the carrion crows. beside a stream, he lied. when this war is done, i will find the place and send him home. bones were bones; these days, nothing was easier to come by. this war... lord emmon cleared his throat, the apple in his throat moving up and down. you will have seen the siege machines. rams, trebuchets, towers. it will not serve, jaime. daven means to break my walls, smash in my gates. he talks of burning pitch, of setting the castle afire. my castle. he reached up one sleeve, brought out a parchment, and thrust it at jaime's face. i have the decree. signed by the king, by tommen, see, the royal seal, the stag and lion. i am the lawful lord of riverrun, and i will not have it reduced to a smoking ruin. oh, put that fool thing away, his wife snapped. so long as the blackfish sits inside riverrun you can wipe your arse with that paper for all the good it does us. though she had been a frey for fifty years, lady genna remained very much a lannister. quite a lot of lannister. jaime will deliver you the castle. to be sure, lord emmon said. ser jaime, your lord father's faith in me was well placed, you shall see. i mean to be firm but fair with my new vassals. blackwood and bracken, jason mallister, vance and piper, they shall learn that they have a just overlord in emmon frey. my father as well, yes. he is the lord of the crossing, but i am the lord of riverrun. a son has a duty to obey his father, true, but a bannerman must obey his overlord. oh, gods be good. you are not his overlord, ser. read your parchment. you were granted riverrun with its lands and incomes, no more. petyr baelish is the lord paramount of the trident. riverrun will be subject to the rule of harrenhal. that did not please lord emmon. harrenhal is a ruin, haunted and accursed, he objected, and baelish... the man is a coin counter, no proper lord, his birth... if you are unhappy with the arrangements, go to king's landing and take it up with my sweet sister. cersei would devour emmon frey and pick her teeth with his bones, he did not doubt. that is, if she's not too busy fucking osmund kettleblack. lady genna gave a snort. there is no need to trouble her grace with such nonsense. emm, why don't you step outside and have a breath of air? a breath of air? or a good long piss, if you prefer. my nephew and i have family matters to discuss. lord emmon flushed. yes, it is warm in here. i will wait outside, my lady. ser. his lordship rolled up his parchment, sketched a bow toward jaime, and tottered from the tent. it was hard not to feel contemptuous of emmon frey. he had arrived at casterly rock in his fourteenth year to wed a lioness half his age. tyrion used to say that lord tywin had given him a nervous belly for a wedding gift. genna has played her part as well. jaime remembered many a feast where emmon sat poking at his food sullenly whilst his wife made ribald jests with whatever household knight had been seated to her left, their conversations punctuated by loud bursts of laughter. she gave frey four sons, to be sure. at least she says they are his. no one in casterly rock had the courage to suggest otherwise, least of all ser emmon. no sooner was he gone than his lady wife rolled her eyes. my lord and master. what was your father thinking, to name him lord of riverrun? i imagine he was thinking of your sons. i think of them as well. emm will make a wretched lord. ty may do better, if he has the sense to learn from me and not his father. she looked about the tent. do you have wine? jaime found a flagon and poured for her, one-handed. why are you here, my lady? you should have remained at casterly rock until the fighting's done. once emm heard he was a lord, he had to come at once to claim his seat. lady genna took a drink and wiped her mouth on her sleeve. your father should have granted us darry. cleos married one of the plowman's daughters, you will recall. his grieving widow is furious that her sons were not granted her lord father's lands. gatehouse ami is darry only on her mother's side. my good-daughter jeyne is her aunt, a full sister to lady mariya. a younger sister, jaime reminded her, and ty will have riverrun, a greater prize than darry. a poisoned prize. house darry is extinguished in the male line, house tully is not. that muttonhead ser ryman puts a noose round edmure's neck, but will not hang him. and roslin frey has a trout growing in her belly. my grandsons will never be secure in riverrun so long as any tully heir remains alive. she was not wrong, jaime knew. if roslin has a girl —   — she can wed ty, provided old lord walder will consent. yes, i've thought of that. a boy is just as likely, though, and his little cock would cloud the issue. and if ser brynden should survive this siege, he might be inclined to claim riverrun in his own name... or in the name of young robert arryn. jaime remembered little robert from king's landing, still sucking on his mother's teats at four. arryn won't live long enough to breed. and why should the lord of the eyrie need riverrun? why does a man with one pot of gold need another? men are greedy. tywin should have granted riverrun to kevan and darry to emm. i would have told him so if he had troubled to ask me, but when did your father ever consult with anyone but kevan? she sighed deeply. i do not blame kevan for wanting the safer seat for his own boy, mind you. i know him too well. what kevan wants and what lancel wants appear to be two different things. he told her of lancel's decision to renounce wife and lands and lordship to fight for the holy faith. if you still want darry, write to cersei and make your case. lady genna waved her cup in dismissal. no, that horse has left the yard. emm has it in his pointed head that he will rule the riverlands. and lancel... i suppose we should have seen this coming from afar. a life protecting the high septon is not so different from a life protecting the king, after all. kevan will be wroth, i fear. as wroth as tywin was when you got it in your head to take the white. at least kevan still has martyn for an heir. he can marry him to gatehouse ami in lancel's place. seven save us all. his aunt gave a sigh. and speaking of the seven, why would cersei permit the faith to arm again? jaime shrugged. i am certain she had reasons. reasons? lady genna made a rude noise. they had best be good reasons. the swords and stars troubled even the targaryens. the conqueror himself tread carefully with the faith, so they would not oppose him. and when aegon died and the lords rose up against his sons, both orders were in the thick of that rebellion. the more pious lords supported them, and many of the smallfolk. king maegor finally had to put a bounty on them. he paid a dragon for the head of any unrepentant warrior's son, and a silver stag for the scalp of a poor fellow, if i recall my history. thousands were slain, but nigh as many still roamed the realm, defiant, until the iron throne slew maegor and king jaehaerys agreed to pardon all those who would set aside their swords. i'd forgotten most of that, jaime confessed. you and your sister both. she took another swallow of her wine. is it true that tywin was smiling on his bier? he was rotting on his bier. it made his mouth twist. was that all it was? that seemed to sadden her. men say that tywin never smiled, but he smiled when he wed your mother, and when aerys made him hand. when tarbeck hall came crashing down on lady ellyn, that scheming bitch, tyg claimed he smiled then. and he smiled at your birth, jaime, i saw that with mine own eyes. you and cersei, pink and perfect, as alike as two peas in a pod... well, except between the legs. what lungs you had! hear us roar. jaime grinned. next you'll be telling me how much he liked to laugh. no. tywin mistrusted laughter. he heard too many people laughing at your grandsire. she frowned. i promise you, this mummer's farce of a siege would not have amused him. how do you mean to end it, now that you're here? treat with the blackfish. that won't work. i mean to offer him good terms. terms require trust. the freys murdered guests beneath their roof, and you, well... i mean no offense, my love, but you did kill a certain king you had sworn to protect. and i'll kill the blackfish if he does not yield. his tone was harsher than he'd intended, but he was in no mood for having aerys targaryen thrown in his face. how, with your tongue? her voice was scornful. i may be an old fat woman, but i do not have cheese between my ears, jaime. neither does the blackfish. empty threats won't daunt him. what would you counsel? she gave a ponderous shrug. emm wants edmure's head off. for once, he may be right. ser ryman has made us a laughingstock with that gibbet of his. you need to show ser brynden that your threats have teeth. killing edmure might harden ser brynden's resolve. resolve is one thing brynden blackfish never lacked for. hoster tully could have told you that. lady genna finished her wine. well, i would never presume to tell you how to fight a war. i know my place... unlike your sister. is it true that cersei burned the red keep? only the tower of the hand. his aunt rolled her eyes. she would have done better to leave the tower and burn her hand. harys swyft? if ever a man deserved his arms, it is ser harys. and gyles rosby, seven save us, i thought he died years ago. merryweather... your father used to call his grandsire 'the chuckler,' i'll have you know. tywin claimed the only thing merryweather was good for was chuckling at the king's witticisms. his lordship chuckled himself right into exile, as i recall. cersei has put some bastard on the council too, and a kettle in the kingsguard. she has the faith arming and the braavosi calling in loans all over westeros. none of which would be happening if she'd had the simple sense to make your uncle the king's hand. ser kevan refused the office. so he said. he did not say why. there was much he did not say. would not say. lady genna made a face. kevan always did what was asked of him. it is not like him to turn away from any duty. something is awry here, i can smell it. he said that he was tired. he knows, cersei had said, as they stood above their father's corpse. he knows about us. tired? his aunt pursed her lips. i suppose he has a right to be. it has been hard for kevan, living all his life in tywin' s shadow. it was hard for all my brothers. that shadow tywin cast was long and black, and each of them had to struggle to find a little sun. tygett tried to be his own man, but he could never match your father, and that just made him angrier as the years went by. gerion made japes. better to mock the game than to play and lose. but kevan saw how things stood early on, so he made himself a place by your father's side. and you? jaime asked her. it was not a game for girls. i was my father's precious princess... and tywin's too, until i disappointed him. my brother never learned to like the taste of disappointment. she pushed herself to her feet. i've said what i came to say, i shan't take any more of your time. do what tywin would have done. did you love him? jaime heard himself ask. his aunt looked at him strangely. i was seven when walder frey persuaded my lord father to give my hand to emm. his second son, not even his heir. father was himself a thirdborn son, and younger children crave the approval of their elders. frey sensed that weakness in him, and father agreed for no better reason than to please him. my betrothal was announced at a feast with half the west in attendance. ellyn tarbeck laughed and the red lion went angry from the hall. the rest sat on their tongues. only tywin dared speak against the match. a boy often. father turned as white as mare's milk, and walder frey was quivering. she smiled. how could i not love him, after that? that is not to say that i approved of all he did, or much enjoyed the company of the man that he became... but every little girl needs a big brother to protect her. tywin was big even when he was little. she gave a sigh. who will protect us now? jaime kissed her cheek. he left a son. aye, he did. that is what i fear the most, in truth. that was a queer remark. why should you fear? jaime, she said, tugging on his ear, sweetling, i have known you since you were a babe at joanna's breast. you smile like gerion and fight like tyg, and there's some of kevan in you, else you would not wear that cloak... but tyrion is tywin' s son, not you. i said so once to your father's face, and he would not speak to me for half a year. men are such thundering great fools. even the sort who come along once in a thousand years. the brooch that fastened ser brynden tully's cloak was a black fish, wrought in jet and gold. his ringmail was grim and grey. over it he wore greaves, gorget, gauntlets, pauldron, and poleyns of blackened steel, none half so dark as the look upon his face as he waited for jaime lannister at the end of the drawbridge, alone atop a chestnut courser caparisoned in red and blue. he loves me not. tully had a craggy face, deeply lined and windburnt beneath a shock of stiff grey hair, but jaime could still see the great knight who had once enthralled a squire with tales of the ninepenny kings. honor's hooves clattered against the planks of the drawbridge. jaime had thought long and hard about whether to wear his gold armor or his white to this meeting; in the end, he'd chosen a leather jack and a crimson cloak. he drew up a yard from ser brynden, and inclined his head to the older man. kingslayer, said tully. that he would make that name the first word from his mouth spoke volumes, but jaime was resolved to keep his temper. blackfish, he responded. thank you for coming. i assume you have returned to fulfill the oaths you swore my niece, ser brynden said. as i recall, you promised catelyn her daughters in return for your freedom. his mouth tightened. yet i do not see the girls. where are they? must he make me say it? i do not have them. pity. do you wish to resume your captivity? your old cell is still available. we have put fresh rushes on the floor. and a nice new pail for me to shit in, i don't doubt. that was thoughtful of you, ser, but i fear i must decline. i prefer the comforts of my pavilion. whilst catelyn enjoys the comforts of her grave. i had no hand in lady catelyn' s death, he might have said, and her daughters were gone before i reached king's landing. it was on his tongue to speak of brienne and the sword he'd given her, but the blackfish was looking at him the way that eddard stark had looked at him when he'd found him on the iron throne with the mad king's blood upon his blade. i came to speak of the living, not the dead. of those who need not die, but shall... ... unless i hand you riverrun. is this where you threaten to hang edmure? beneath his bushy brows, tully's eyes were stone. my nephew is marked for death no matter what i do. so hang him and be done with it. i expect that edmure is as weary of standing on those gallows as i am of seeing him there. ryman frey is a bloody fool. his mummer's show with edmure and the gallows had only made the blackfish more obdurate, that was plain. you hold lady sybelle westerling and three of her children. i'll return your nephew in exchange for them. as you returned lady catelyn' s daughters? jaime did not allow himself to be provoked. an old woman and three children for your liege lord. that's a better bargain than you could have hoped for. ser brynden smiled a hard smile. you do not lack for gall, kingslayer. bargaining with oathbreakers is like building on quicksand, though. cat should have known better than to trust the likes of you. it was tyrion she trusted in, jaime almost said. the imp deceived her too. the promises i made to lady catelyn were wrung from me at swordpoint. and the oath you swore to aerys? he felt his phantom fingers twitching. aerys is no part of this. will you exchange the westerlings for edmure? no. my king entrusted his queen to my keeping, and i swore to keep her safe. i will not hand her over to a frey noose. the girl has been pardoned. no harm will come to her. you have my word on that. your word of honor? ser brynden raised an eyebrow. do you even know what honor is? a horse. i will swear any oath that you require. spare me, kingslayer. i want to. strike your banners and open your gates and i'll grant your men their lives. those who wish to remain at riverrun in service to lord emmon may do so. the rest shall be free to go where they will, though i will require them to surrender their arms and armor. i wonder, how far will they get, unarmed, before 'outlaws' set upon them? you dare not allow them to join lord beric, we both know that. and what of me? will i be paraded through king's landing to die like eddard stark? i will permit you to take the black. ned stark's bastard is the lord commander on the wall. the blackfish narrowed his eyes. did your father arrange for that as well? catelyn never trusted the boy, as i recall, no more than she ever trusted theon greyjoy. it would seem she was right about them both. no, ser, i think not. i'll die warm, if you please, with a sword in hand running red with lion blood. tully blood runs just as red, jaime reminded him. if you will not yield the castle, i must storm it. hundreds will die. hundreds of mine. thousands of yours. your garrison will perish to a man. i know that song. do you sing it to the tune of 'the rains of castamere'? my men would sooner die upon their feet fighting than on their knees beneath a headsman's axe. this is not going well. this defiance serves no purpose, ser. the war is done, and your young wo if is dead. murdered in breach of all the sacred laws of hospitality. frey's work, not mine. call it what you will. it stinks of tywin lannister. jaime could not deny that. my father is dead as well. may the father judge him justly. now, there's an awful prospect. i would have slain robb stark in the whispering wood, if i could have reached him. some fools got in my way. does it matter how the boy perished? he's no less dead, and his kingdom died when he did. you must be blind as well as maimed, ser. lift your eyes, and you will see that the direwolf still flies above our walls. i've seen him. he looks lonely. harrenhal has fallen. seagard and maidenpool. the brackens have bent the knee, and they've got tytos blackwood penned up in raventree. piper, vance, mooton, all your bannermen have yielded. only riverrun remains. we have twenty times your numbers. twenty times the men require twenty times the food. how well are you provisioned, my lord? well enough to sit here till the end of days if need be, whilst you starve inside your walls. he told the lie as boldly as he could and hoped his face did not betray him. the blackfish was not deceived. the end of your days, perhaps. our own supplies are ample, though i fear we did not leave much in the fields for visitors. we can bring food down from the twins, said jaime, or over the hills from the west, if it comes to that. if you say so. far be it from me to question the word of such an honorable knight. the scorn in his voice made jaime bristle. there is a quicker way to decide the matter. a single combat. my champion against yours. i was wondering when you would get to that. ser brynden laughed. who will it be? strongboar? addam marbrand? black walder frey? he leaned forward. why not you and me, ser? that would have been a sweet fight once, jaime thought, fine fodder for the singers. when lady catelyn freed me, she made me swear not to take arms again against the starks or tullys. a most convenient oath, ser. his face darkened. are you calling me a coward? no. i am calling you a cripple. the blackfish nodded at jaime's golden hand. we both know you cannot fight with that. i had two hands. would you throw your life away for pride? a voice inside him whispered. some might say a cripple and an old man are well matched. free me from my vow to lady catelyn and i will meet you sword to sword. if i win, riverrun is ours. if you slay me, we'll lift the siege. ser brynden laughed again. much as i would welcome the chance to take that golden sword away from you and cut out your black heart, your promises are worthless. i would gain nothing from your death but the pleasure of killing you, and i will not risk my own life for that... as small a risk as that may be. it was a good thing that jaime wore no sword; elsewise he would have ripped his blade out, and if ser brynden did not slay him, the archers on the walls most surely would. are there any terms you will accept? he demanded of the blackfish. from you? ser brynden shrugged. no. why did you even come to treat with me? a siege is deadly dull. i wanted to see this stump of yours and hear whatever excuses you cared to offer up for your latest enormities. they were feebler than i'd hoped. you always disappoint, kingslayer. the blackfish wheeled his mare and trotted back toward riverrun. the portcullis descended with a rush, its iron spikes biting deep into the muddy ground. jaime turned honor's head about for the long ride back to the lannister siege lines. he could feel the eyes on him; the tully men upon their battlements, the freys across the river. if they are not blind, they'll all know he threw my offer in my teeth. he would need to storm the castle. well, what's one more broken vow to the kingslayer? just more shit in the bucket. jaime resolved to be the first man on the battlements. and with this golden hand of mine, most like the first to fall. back at camp, little lew held his bridle whilst peck gave him a hand down from the saddle. do they think i'm such a cripple that i cannot dismount by myself? how did you fare, my lord? asked his cousin ser daven. no one put an arrow in my horse's rump. elsewise, there was little to distinguish me from ser ryman. he grimaced. so now he must needs turn the red fork redder. blame yourself for that, blackfish. you left me little choice. assemble a war council. ser addam, strongboar, forley prester, those river lords of ours... and our friends of frey. ser ryman, lord emmon, whoever else they care to bring. they gathered quickly. lord piper and both lords vance came to speak for the repentant lords of the trident, whose loyalties would shortly be put to the test. the west was represented by ser daven, strongboar, addam marbrand, and forley prester. lord emmon frey joined them, with his wife. lady genna claimed her stool with a look that dared any man there to question her presence. none did. the freys sent ser walder rivers, called bastard walder, and ser ryman' s firstborn edwyn, a pallid, slender man with a pinched nose and lank dark hair. under a blue lambswool cloak, edwyn wore a jerkin of finely tooled grey calfskin with ornate scrollwork worked into the leather. i speak for house frey, he announced. my father is indisposed this morning. ser daven gave a snort. is he drunk, or just greensick from last night's wine? edwyn had the hard mean mouth of a miser. lord jaime, he said, must i suffer such discourtesy? is it true? jaime asked him. is your father drunk? frey pressed his lips together and eyed ser ilyn payne, who was standing beside by the tent flap in his rusted mail, his sword poking up above one bony shoulder. he... my father has a bad belly, my lord. red wine helps with his digestion. he must be digesting a bloody mammoth, said ser daven. strongboar laughed, and lady genna chuckled. enough, said jaime. we have a castle to win. when his father sat in council, he let his captains speak first. he was resolved to do the same. how shall we proceed? hang edmure tully, for a start, urged lord emmon frey. that will teach ser brynden that we mean what we say. if we send ser edmure's head to his uncle, it may move him to yield. brynden blackfish is not moved so easily. karyl vance, the lord of wayfarer's rest, had a melancholy look. a winestain birthmark covered half his neck and one side of his face. his own brother could not move him to a marriage bed. ser daven shook his shaggy head. we have to storm the walls, as i've been saying all along. siege towers, scaling ladders, a ram to break the gate, that's what's needed here. i will lead the assault, said strongboar. give the fish a taste of steel and fire, that's what i say. they are my walls, protested lord emmon, and that is my gate you would break. he drew his parchment out of his sleeve again. king tommen himself has granted me —  we've all seen your paper, nuncle, snapped edwyn frey. why don't you go wave it at the blackfish for a change? storming the walls will be a bloody business, said addam marbrand. i propose we wait for a moonless night and send a dozen picked men across the river in a boat with muffled oars. they can scale the walls with ropes and grapnels, and open the gates from the inside. i will lead them, if the council wishes. folly, declared the bastard, walder rivers. ser brynden is no man to be cozened by such tricks. the blackfish is the obstacle, agreed edwyn frey. his helm bears a black trout on its crest that makes him easy to pick out from afar. i propose that we move our siege towers close, fill them full of bowmen, and feign an attack upon the gates. that will bring ser brynden to the battlements, crest and all. let every archer smear his shafts with night soil, and make that crest his mark. once ser brynden dies, riverrun is ours. mine, piped lord emmon. riverrun is mine. lord karyl' s birthmark darkened. will the night soil be your own contribution, edwyn? a mortal poison, i don't doubt. the blackfish deserves a nobler death, and i'm the man to give it to him. strongboar thumped his fist on the table. i will challenge him to single combat. mace or axe or longsword, makes no matter. the old man will be my meat. why would he deign to accept your challenge, ser? asked ser forley prester. what could he gain from such a duel? will we lift the siege if he should win? i do not believe that. nor will he. a single combat would accomplish nought. i have known brynden tully since we were squires together, in service to lord darry, said norbert vance, the blind lord of atranta. if it please my lords, let me go and speak with him and try to make him understand the hopelessness of his position. he understands that well enough, said lord piper. he was a short, rotund, bowlegged man with a bush of wild red hair, the father of one of jaime's squires; the resemblance to the boy was unmistakeable. the man's not bloody stupid, norbert. he has eyes... and too much sense to yield to such as these. he made a rude gesture in the direction of edwyn frey and walder rivers. edwyn bristled. if my lord of piper means to imply —  i don't imply, frey. i say what i mean straight out, like an honest man. but what would you know of the ways of honest men? you're a treacherous lying weasel, like all your kin. i'd sooner drink a pint of piss than take the word of any frey. he leaned across the table. where is marq, answer me that? what have you done with my son? he was a guest at your bloody wedding. and our honored guest he shall remain, said edwyn, until you prove your loyalty to his grace, king tommen. five knights and twenty men-at-arms went with marq to the twins, said piper. are they your guests as well, frey? some of the knights, perhaps. the others were served no more than they deserved. you'd do well to guard your traitor's tongue, piper, unless you want your heir returned in pieces. my father's councils never went like this, jaime thought, as piper came lurching to his feet. say that with a sword in your hand, frey, the small man snarled. or do you only fight with smears of shit? frey's pinched face went pale. beside him walder rivers rose. edwyn is no man of the sword... but i am, piper. if you have more remarks to make, come outside and make them. this is a war council, not a war, jaime reminded them. sit down, the both of you. neither man moved. now! walder rivers seated himself. lord piper was not so easy to cow. he muttered a curse and strode from the tent. shall i send men after him to drag him back, my lord? ser daven asked jaime. send ser ilyn, urged edywn frey. we only need his head. karyl vance turned to jaime. lord piper spoke from grief. marq is his firstborn son. those knights who accompanied him to the twins were nephews and cousins all. traitors and rebels all, you mean, said edwyn frey. jaime gave him a cold look. the twins took up the young wolfs cause as well, he reminded the freys. then you betrayed him. that makes you twice as treacherous as piper. he enjoyed seeing edwyn' s thin smile curdle up and die. i have endured sufficient counsel for one day, he decided. we're done. see to your preparations, my lords. we attack at first light. the wind was blowing from the north as the lords filed from the tent. jaime could smell the stink of the frey encampments beyond the tumblestone. across the water edmure tully stood forlorn atop the tall grey gallows, with a rope around his neck. his aunt departed last, her husband at her heels. lord nephew, emmon protested, this assault on my seat... you must not do this. when he swallowed, the apple in his throat moved up and down. you must not. i... i forbid it. he had been chewing sourleaf again; pinkish froth glistened on his lips. the castle is mine, i have the parchment. signed by the king, by little tommen. i am the lawful lord of riverrun, and... not so long as edmure tully lives, said lady genna. he is soft of heart and soft of head, i know, but alive, the man is still a danger. what do you mean to do about that, jaime? it's the blackfish who is the danger, not edmure. leave edmure to me. ser lyle, ser ilyn. attend me, if you would. it's time i paid a visit to those gallows. the tumblestone was deeper and swifter than the red fork, and the nearest ford was leagues upstream. the ferry had just started across with walder rivers and edwyn frey when jaime and his men arrived at the river. as they awaited its return, jaime told them what he wanted. ser ilyn spat into the river. when the three of them stepped off the ferry on the north bank, a drunken camp follower offered to pleasure strongboar with her mouth. here, pleasure my friend, ser lyle said, shoving her toward ser ilyn. laughing, the woman moved to kiss payne on the lips, then saw his eyes and shrank away. the paths between the cookfires were raw brown mud, mixed with horse dung and torn up by hooves and boots alike. everywhere jaime saw the twin towers of house frey displayed on shield and banners, blue on grey, along with the arms of lesser houses sworn to the crossing: the heron of erenford, the pitchfork of haigh, lord charlton's three sprigs of mistletoe. the arrival of the kingslayer did not go unnoticed. an old woman selling piglets from a basket stopped to stare at him, a knight with a half- familiar face went to one knee, and two men-at-arms pissing in a ditch turned and sprayed each other. ser jaime, someone called after him, but he strode on without turning. around him he glimpsed the faces of men he'd done his best to kill in the whispering wood, where the freys had fought beneath the direwo if banners of robb stark. his golden hand hung heavy at his side. ryman frey's great rectangular pavilion was the largest in the camp; its grey canvas walls were made of sewn squares to resemble stonework, and its two peaks evoked the twins. far from being indisposed, ser ryman was enjoying some entertainment. the sound of a woman's drunken laughter drifted from within the tent, mingled with the strains of a woodharp and a singer's voice. i will deal with you later, ser, jaime thought. walder rivers stood before his own modest tent, talking with two men-at-arms. his shield bore the arms of house frey with the colors reversed, and a red bend sinister across the towers. when the bastard saw jaime, he frowned. there's a cold suspicious look if ever i saw one. that one is more dangerous than any of his trueborn brothers. the gallows had been raised ten feet off the ground. two spearmen were posted at the foot of the steps. you can't go up without ser ryman' s leave, one told jaime. this says i can. jaime tapped his sword hilt with a finger. the question is, will i need to step over your corpse? the spearmen moved aside. atop the gallows, the lord of riverrun stood staring at the trap beneath him. his feet were black and caked with mud, his legs bare. edmure wore a soiled silken tunic striped in tully red and blue, and a noose of hempen rope. at the sound of jaime's footsteps, he raised his head and licked his dry, cracked lips. kingslayer? the sight of ser ilyn widened his eyes. better a sword than a rope. do it, payne. ser ilyn, said jaime. you heard lord tully. do it. the silent knight gripped his greatsword with both hands. long and heavy it was, sharp as common steel could be. edmure's cracked lips moved soundlessly. as ser ilyn drew the blade back, he closed his eyes. the stroke had all payne's weight behind it. no! stop. no! edwyn frey came panting into view. my father comes. fast as he can. jaime, you must... my lord would suit me better, frey, said jaime. and you would do well to omit must from any speech directed at me. ser ryman came stomping up the gallows steps in company with a straw-haired slattern as drunk as he was. her gown laced up the front, but someone had undone the laces to the navel, so her breasts were spilling out. they were large and heavy, with big brown nipples. on her head a circlet of hammered bronze sat askew, graven with runes and ringed with small black swords. when she saw jaime, she laughed. who in seven hells is this one? the lord commander of the kingsguard, jaime returned with cold courtesy. i might ask the same of you, my lady. lady? i'm no lady. i'm the queen. my sister will be surprised to hear that. lord ryman crowned me his very self. she gave a shake of her ample hips. i'm the queen o' whores. no, jaime thought, my sweet sister holds that title too. ser ryman found his tongue. shut your mouth, slut, lord jaime doesn't want to hear some harlot's nonsense. this frey was a thickset man with a broad face, small eyes, and a soft fleshy set of chins. his breath stank of wine and onions. making queens, ser ryman? jaime asked softly. stupid. as stupid as this business with lord edmure. i gave the blackfish warning. i told him edmure would die unless the castle yielded. i had this gallows built, to show them that ser ryman frey does not make idle threats. at seagard my son walder did the same with patrek mallister and lord jason bent the knee, but... the blackfish is a cold man. he refused us, so... ... you hanged lord edmure? the man reddened. my lord grandfather... if we hang the man we have no hostage, ser. have you considered that? only a fool makes threats he's not prepared to carry out. if i were to threaten to hit you unless you shut your mouth, and you presumed to speak, what do you think i'd do? ser, you do not unders —  jaime hit him. it was a backhand blow delivered with his golden hand, but the force of it sent ser ryman stumbling backward into the arms of his whore. you have a fat head, ser ryman, and a thick neck as well. ser ilyn, how many strokes would it take you to cut through that neck? ser ilyn laid a single finger against his nose. jaime laughed. an empty boast. i say three. ryman frey went to his knees. i have done nothing... ... but drink and whore. i know. i am heir to the crossing. you can't... i warned you about talking. jaime watched the man turn white. a sot, a fool, and a craven. lord walder had best outlive this one, or the freys are done. you are dismissed, ser. dismissed? you heard me. go away. but... where should i go? to hell or home, as you prefer. see that you are not in camp when the sun comes up. you may take your queen of whores, but not that crown of hers. jaime turned from ser ryman to his son. edwyn, i am giving you your father's command. try not to be so stupid as your sire. that ought not pose much difficulty, my lord. send word to lord walder. the crown requires all his prisoners. jaime waved his golden hand. ser lyle, bring him. edmure tully had collapsed facedown on the scaffold when ser ilyn's blade sheared the rope in two. a foot of hemp still dangled from the noose about his neck. strongboar grabbed the end of it and pulled him to his feet. a fish on a leash, he said, chortling. there's a sight i never saw before. the freys stepped aside to let them pass. a crowd had gathered below the scaffold, including a dozen camp followers in various states of disarray. jaime noticed one man holding a woodharp. you. singer. come with me. the man doffed his hat. as my lord commands. no one said a word as they walked back to the ferry, with ser ryman' s singer trailing after them. but as they shoved off from the riverbank and made for the south side of the tumblestone, edmure tully grabbed jaime by the arm. why? a lannister pays his debts, he thought, and you're the only coin that's left to me. consider it a wedding gift. edmure stared at him with wary eyes. a... wedding gift? i am told your wife is pretty. she'd have to be, for you to bed her while your sister and your king were being murdered. i never knew. edmure licked his cracked lips. there were fiddlers outside the bedchamber.. and lady roslin was distracting you. she... they made her do it, lord walder and the rest. roslin never wanted... she wept, but i thought it was... the sight of your rampant manhood? aye, that would make any woman weep, i'm sure. she is carrying my child. no, jaime thought, that's your death she has growing in her belly. back at his pavilion, he dismissed strongboar and ser ilyn, but not the singer. i may have need of a song shortly, he told the man. lew, heat some bathwater for my guest. pia, find him some clean clothing. nothing with lions on it, if you please. peck, wine for lord tully. are you hungry, my lord? edmure nodded, but his eyes were still suspicious. jaime settled on a stool while tully had his bath. the filth came off in grey clouds. once you've eaten, my men will escort you to riverrun. what happens after that is up to you. what do you mean? your uncle is an old man. valiant, yes, but the best part of his life is done. he has no bride to grieve for him, no children to defend. a good death is all the blackfish can hope for... but you have years remaining, edmure. and you are the rightful lord of house tully, not him. your uncle serves at your pleasure. the fate of riverrun is in your hands. edmure stared. the fate of riverrun... yield the castle and no one dies. your smallfolk may go in peace or stay to serve lord emmon. ser brynden will be allowed to take the black, along with as many of the garrison as choose to join him. you as well, if the wall appeals to you. or you may go to casterly rock as my captive and enjoy all the comforts and courtesy that befits a hostage of your rank. i'll send your wife to join you, if you like. if her child is a boy, he will serve house lannister as a page and a squire, and when he earns his knighthood we'll bestow some lands upon him. should roslin give you a daughter, i'll see her well dowered when she's old enough to wed. you yourself may even be granted parole, once the war is done. all you need do is yield the castle. edmure raised his hands from the tub and watched the water run between his fingers. and if i will not yield? must you make me say the words? pia was standing by the flap of the tent with her arms full of clothes. his squires were listening as well, and the singer. let them hear, jaime thought. let the world hear. it makes no matter. he forced himself to smile, you've seen our numbers, edmure. you've seen the ladders, the towers, the trebuchets, the rams. if i speak the command, my coz will bridge your moat and break your gate. hundreds will die, most of them your own. your former bannermen will make up the first wave of attackers, so you'll start your day by killing the fathers and brothers of men who died for you at the twins. the second wave will be freys, i have no lack of those. my westermen will follow when your archers are short of arrows and your knights so weary they can hardly lift their blades. when the castle falls, all those inside will be put to the sword. your herds will be butchered, your godswood will be felled, your keeps and towers will burn. i'll pull your walls down, and divert the tumblestone over the ruins. by the time i'm done no man will ever know that a castle once stood here. jaime got to his feet. your wife may whelp before that. you'll want your child, i expect. i'll send him to you when he's born. with a trebuchet. silence followed his speech. edmure sat in his bath. pia clutched the clothing to her breasts. the singer tightened a string on his harp. little lew hollowed out a loaf of stale bread to make a trencher, pretending that he had not heard. with a trebuchet, jaime thought. if his aunt had been there, would she still say tyrion was tywin's son? edmure tully finally found his voice. i could climb out of this tub and kill you where you stand, kingslayer. you could try. jaime waited. when edmure made no move to rise, he said, i'll leave you to enjoy your food. singer, play for our guest whilst he eats. you know the song, i trust. the one about the rain? aye, my lord. i know it. edmure seemed to see the man for the first time. no. not him. get him away from me. why, it's just a song, said jaime. he cannot have that bad a voice. the new lord of riverrun was so angry that he was shaking. we have been deceived, he said. this man had played us false! pink spittle flew from his lips as he jabbed a finger at edmure tully. i will have his head off! i rule in riverrun, by the king's own decree, i —  emmon, said his wife, the lord commander knows about the king's decree. ser edmure knows about the king's decree. the stableboys know about the king's decree. i am the lord, and i will have his head! for what crime? thin as he was, edmure still looked more lordly than emmon frey. he wore a quilted doublet of red wool with a leaping trout embroidered on its chest. his boots were black, his breeches blue. his auburn hair had been washed and barbered, his red beard neatly trimmed. i did all that was asked of me. oh? jaime lannister had not slept since riverrun had opened its gates, and his head was pounding. i do not recall asking you to let ser brynden escape. you required me to surrender my castle, not my uncle. am i to blame if your men let him slip through their siege lines? jaime was not amused. where is he? he said, letting his irritation show. his men had searched riverrun thrice over, and brynden tully was nowhere to be found. he never told me where he meant to go. and you never asked. how did he get out? fish swim. even black ones. edmure smiled. jaime was sorely tempted to crack him across the mouth with his golden hand. a few missing teeth would put an end to his smiles. for a man who was going to spend the rest of his life a prisoner, edmure was entirely too pleased with himself. we have oubliettes beneath the casterly rock that fit a man as tight as a suit of armor. you can't turn in them, or sit, or reach down to your feet when the rats start gnawing at your toes. would you care to reconsider that answer? lord edmure 's smile went away. you gave me your word that i would be treated honorably, as befits my rank. so you shall, said jaime. nobler knights than you have died whimpering in those oubliettes, and many a high lord too. even a king or two, if i recall my history. your wife can have the one beside you, if you like. i would not want to part you. he did swim, said edmure, sullenly. he had the same blue eyes as his sister catelyn, and jaime saw the same loathing there that he'd once seen in hers. we raised the portcullis on the water gate. not all the way, just three feet or so. enough to leave a gap under the water, though the gate still appeared to be closed. my uncle is a strong swimmer. after dark, he pulled himself beneath the spikes. and he slipped under our boom the same way, no doubt. a moonless night, bored guards, a black fish in a black river floating quietly downstream. if ruttiger or yew or any of their men heard a splash, they would put it down to a turtle or a trout. edmure had waited most of the day before hauling down the direwolf of stark in token of surrender. in the confusion of the castle changing hands, it had been the next morning before jaime had been informed that the blackfish was not amongst the prisoners. he went to the window and gazed out over the river. it was a bright autumn day, and the sun was shining on the waters. by now the blackfish could be ten leagues downstream. you have to find him, insisted emmon frey. he'll be found. jaime spoke with a certainty he did not feel. i have hounds and hunters sniffing after him even now. ser addam marbrand was leading the search on the south side of the river, ser dermot of the rainwood on the north. he had considered enlisting the riverlords as well, but vance and piper and their ilk were more like to help the blackfish escape than clap him into fetters. all in all, he was not hopeful. he may elude us for a time, he said, but eventually he must surface. what if he should try and take my castle back? you have a garrison of two hundred. too large a garrison, in truth, but lord emmon had an anxious disposition. at least he would have no trouble feeding them; the blackfish had left riverrun amply provisioned, just as he had claimed. after the trouble ser brynden took to leave us, i doubt that he'll come skulking back. unless it is at the head of a band of outlaws. he did not doubt that the blackfish meant to continue the fight. this is your seat, lady genna told her husband. it is for you to hold it. if you cannot do that, put it to the torch and run back to the rock. lord emmon rubbed his mouth. his hand came away red and slimy from the sourleaf to be sure. riverrun is mine, and no man shall ever take it from me. he gave edmure tully one last suspicious look, as lady genna drew him from the solar. is there any more that you would care to tell me? jaime asked edmure when the two of them were alone. this was my father's solar, said tully. he ruled the riverlands from here, wisely and well. he liked to sit beside that window. the light was good there, and whenever he looked up from his work he could see the river. when his eyes were tired he would have cat read to him. little finger and i built a castle out of wooden blocks once, there beside the door. you will never know how sick it makes me to see you in this room, kingslayer. you will never know how much i despise you. he was wrong about that. i have been despised by better men than you, edmure. jaime called for a guard. take his lordship back to his tower and see that he's fed. the lord of riverrun went silently. on the morrow, he would start west. ser forley prester would command his escort; a hundred men, including twenty knights. best double that. lord beric may try to free edmure before they reach the golden tooth. jaime did not want to have to capture tully for a third time. he returned to hoster tully's chair, pulled over the map of the trident, and flattened it beneath his golden hand. where would i go, if i were the blackfish? lord commander? a guardsman stood in the open door. lady westerling and her daughter are without, as you commanded. jaime shoved the map aside. show them in. at least the girl did not vanish too. jeyne westerling had been robb stark's queen, the girl who cost him everything. with a wolf in her belly, she could have proved more dangerous than the blackfish. she did not look dangerous. jeyne was a willowy girl, no more than fifteen or sixteen, more awkward than graceful. she had narrow hips, breasts the size of apples, a mop of chestnut curls, and the soft brown eyes of a doe. pretty enough for a child, jaime decided, but not a girl to lose a kingdom for. her face was puffy, and there was a scab on her forehead, half-hidden by a lock of brown hair. what happened there? he asked her. the girl turned her head away. it is nothing, insisted her mother, a stern-faced woman in a gown of green velvet. a necklace of golden seashells looped about her long, thin neck. she would not give up the little crown the rebel gave her, and when i tried to take it from her head the willful child fought me. it was mine. jeyne sobbed. you had no right. robb had it made for me. i loved him. her mother made to slap her, but jaime stepped between them. none of that, he warned lady sybell. sit down, both of you. the girl curled up in her chair like a frightened animal, but her mother sat stiffly, her head high. will you have wine? he asked them. the girl did not answer. no, thank you, said her mother. as you will. jaime turned to the daughter. i am sorry for your loss. the boy had courage, i'll give him that. there is a question i must ask you. are you carrying his child, my lady? jeyne burst from her chair and would have fled the room if the guard at the door had not seized her by the arm. she is not, said lady sybell, as her daughter struggled to escape. i made certain of that, as your lord father bid me. jaime nodded. tywin lannister was not a man to overlook such details. unhand the girl, he said, i'm done with her for now. as jeyne fled sobbing down the stairs, he considered her mother. house westerling has its pardon, and your brother rolph has been made lord of castamere. what else would you have of us? your lord father promised me worthy marriages for jeyne and her younger sister. lords or heirs, he swore to me, not younger sons nor household knights. lords or heirs. to be sure. the westerlings were an old house, and proud, but lady sybell herself had been born a spicer, from a line of up jumped merchants. her grandmother had been some sort of half- mad witch woman from the east, he seemed to recall. and the westerlings were impoverished. younger sons would have been the best that sybell spicer' s daughters could have hoped for in the ordinary course of events, but a nice fat pot of lannister gold would make even a dead rebel's widow look attractive to some lord. you'll have your marriages, said jaime, but jeyne must wait two full years before she weds again. if the girl took another husband too soon and had a child by him, inevitably there would come whispers that the young wolf was the father. i have two sons as well, lady westerling reminded him. rollam is with me, but raynald was a knight and went with the rebels to the twins. if i had known what was to happen there, i would never have allowed that. there was a hint of reproach in her voice. raynald knew nought of any... of the understanding with your lord father. he may be a captive at the twins. or he may be dead. walder frey would not have known of the understanding either. i will make inquiries. if ser raynald is still a captive, we'll pay his ransom for you. mention was made of a match for him as well. a bride from casterly rock. your lord father said that raynald should have joy of him, if all went as we hoped. even from the grave, lord tywin's dead hand moves us all. joy is my late uncle gerion's natural daughter. a betrothal can be arranged, if that is your wish, but any marriage will need to wait. joy was nine or ten when last i saw her. his natural daughter? lady sybell looked as if she had swallowed a lemon. you want a westerling to wed a bastard? no more than i want joy to marry the son of some scheming turncloak bitch. she deserves better. jaime would happily have strangled the woman with her seashell necklace. joy was a sweet child, albeit a lonely one; her father had been jaime's favorite uncle. your daughter is worth ten of you, my lady. you'll leave with edmure and ser forley on the morrow. until then, you would do well to stay out of my sight. he shouted for a guardsman, and lady sybell went off with her lips pressed primly together. jaime had to wonder how much lord gawen knew about his wife's scheming. how much do we men ever know? when edmure and the westerlings departed, four hundred men rode with them; jaime had doubled the escort again at the last moment. he rode with them a few miles, to talk with ser forley prester. though he bore a bull's head upon his surcoat and horns upon his helm, ser forley could not have been less bovine. he was a short, spare, hard-bitten man. with his pinched nose, bald pate, and grizzled brown beard, he looked more like an innkeep than a knight. we don't know where the blackfish is, jaime reminded him, but if he can cut edmure free, he will. that will not happen, my lord. like most innkeeps, ser forley was no man's fool. scouts and outriders will screen our march, and we'll fortify our camps by night. i have picked ten men to stay with tully day and night, my best longbowmen. if he should ride so much as a foot off the road, they will loose so many shafts at him that his own mother would take him for a goose. good. jaime would as lief have tully reach casterly rock safely, but better dead than fled. best keep some archers near lord westerling' s daughter as well. ser forley seemed taken aback. gawen's girl? she's —   — the young wolfs widow, jaime finished, and twice as dangerous as edmure if she were ever to escape us. as you say, my lord. she will be watched. jaime had to canter past the westerlings as he rode down the column on his way back to riverrun. lord gawen nodded gravely as he passed, but lady sybell looked through him with eyes like chips of ice. jeyne never saw him at all. the widow rode with downcast eyes, huddled beneath a hooded cloak. underneath its heavy folds, her clothes were finely made, but torn. she ripped them herself, as a mark of mourning, jaime realized. that could not have pleased her mother. he found himself wondering if cersei would tear her gown if she should ever hear that he was dead. he did not go straight back to the castle but crossed the tumblestone once more to call on edwyn frey and discuss the transfer of his great-grandfather's prisoners. the frey host had begun to break up within hours of riverrun's surrender, as lord walder's bannermen and freeriders pulled up stakes to make for home. the freys who still remained were striking camp, but he found edwyn with his bastard uncle in the latter's pavilion. the two of them were huddled over a map, arguing heatedly, but they broke off when jaime entered. lord commander, rivers said with cold courtesy, but edwyn blurted out, my father's blood is on your hands, ser. that took jaime a bit aback. how so? you were the one who sent him home, were you not? someone had to. has some ill befallen ser ryman? hanged with all his party, said walder rivers. the outlaws caught them two leagues south of fairmarket. dondarrion? him, or thoros, or this woman stoneheart. jaime frowned. ryman frey had been a fool, a craven, and a sot, and no one was like to miss him much, least of all his fellow freys. if edwyn's dry eyes were any clue, even his own sons would not mourn him long. still... these outlaws are growing bold, if they dare hang lord walder's heir not a day's ride from the twins. how many men did ser ryman have with him? he asked. three knights and a dozen men-at-arms, said rivers. it is almost as if they knew that he would be returning to the twins, and with a small escort. edwyn's mouth twisted. my brother had a hand in this, i'll wager. he allowed the outlaws to escape after they murdered merrett and petyr, and this is why. with our father dead, there's only me left between black walder and the twins. you have no proof of this, said walder rivers. i do not need proof. i know my brother. your brother is at seagard, rivers insisted. how could he have known that ser ryman was returning to the twins? someone told him, said edwyn in a bitter tone. he has his spies in our camp, you can be sure. and you have yours at seagard. jaime knew that the enmity between edwyn and black walder ran deep, but cared not a fig which of them succeeded their great-grandfather as lord of the crossing. if you will pardon me for intruding on your grief, he said, in a dry tone, we have other matters to consider. when you return to the twins, please inform lord walder that king tommen requires all the captives you took at the red wedding. ser walder frowned. these prisoners are valuable, ser. his grace would not ask for them if they were worthless. frey and rivers exchanged a look. edwyn said, my lord grandfather will expect recompense for these prisoners. and he'll have it, as soon as i grow a new hand, thought jaime. we all have expectations, he said mildly. tell me, is ser raynald westerling amongst these captives? the knight of seashells? edwyn sneered. you'll find that one feeding the fish at the bottom of the green fork. he was in the yard when our men came to put the direwolf down, said walder rivers. whalen demanded his sword and he gave it over meek enough, but when the crossbowmen began feathering the wolf he seized whalen's axe and cut the monster loose of the net they'd thrown over him. whalen says he took a quarrel in his shoulder and another in the gut, but still managed to reach the wallwalk and throw himself into the river. he left a trail of blood on the steps, said edwyn. did you find his corpse afterward? asked jaime. we found a thousand corpses afterward. once they've spent a few days in the river they all look much the same. eve heard the same is true of hanged men, said jaime, before he took his leave. by the next morning little remained of the frey encampment but flies, horse dung, and ser ryman's gallows, standing forlorn beside the tumblestone. his coz wanted to know what should be done with it, and with the siege equipment he had built, his rams and sows and towers and treb-uchets. daven proposed that they drag it all to raventree and use it there. jaime told him to put everything to the torch, starting with the gallows. i mean to deal with lord tytos myself. it won't require a siege tower. daven grinned through his bushy beard. single combat, coz? scarce seems fair. tytos is an old grey man. an old grey man with two hands. that night he and ser ilyn fought for three hours. it was one of his better nights. if they had been in earnest, payne only would have killed him twice. haifa dozen deaths were more the rule, and some nights were worse than that. if i keep at this for another year, i may be as good as peck, jaime declared, and ser ilyn made that clacking sound that meant he was amused. come, let's drink some more of hoster tully's good red wine. wine had become a part of their nightly ritual. ser ilyn made the perfect drinking companion. he never interrupted, never disagreed, never complained or asked for favors or told long pointless stories. all he did was drink and listen. i should have the tongues removed from all my friends, said jaime as he filled their cups, and from my kin as well. a silent cersei would be sweet. though i'd miss her tongue when we kissed. he drank. the wine was a deep red, sweet and heavy. it warmed him going down. i can't remember when we first began to kiss. it was innocent at first. until it wasn't. he finished the wine and set his cup aside. tyrion once told me that most whores will not kiss you. they'll fuck you blind, he said, but you'll never feel their lips on yours. do you think my sister kisses kettleblack? ser ilyn did not answer. i don't think it would be proper for me to slay mine own sworn brother. what i need to do is geld him and send him to the wall. that's what they did with lucamore the lusty. ser osmund may not take kindly to the gelding, to be sure. and there are his brothers to consider. brothers can be dangerous. after aegon the unworthy put ser terrence toyne to death for sleeping with his mistress, toyne' s brothers did their best to kill him. their best was not quite good enough, thanks to the dragonknight, but it was not for want of trying. it's written down in the white book. all of it, save what to do with cersei. ser ilyn drew a finger across his throat. no, said jaime. tommen has lost a brother, and the man he thought of as his father. if i were to kill his mother, he would hate me for it... and that sweet little wife of his would find a way to turn that hatred to the benefit of highgarden. ser ilyn smiled in a way jaime did not like. an ugly smile. an ugly soul. you talk too much, he told the man. the next day ser dermot of the rainwood returned to the castle, empty-handed. when asked what he'd found, he answered, wolves. hundreds of the bloody beggars. he'd lost two sentries to them. the wolves had come out of the dark to savage them. armed men in mail and boiled leather, and yet the beasts had no fear of them. before he died, jate said the pack was led by a she-wolf of monstrous size. a direwolf, to hear him tell it. the wolves got in amongst our horse lines too. the bloody bastards killed my favorite bay. a ring of fires round your camp might keep them off, said jaime, though he wondered. could ser dermot's direwolf be the same beast that had mauled joffrey near the crossroads? wolves or no, ser dermot took fresh horses and more men and went out again the next morning, to resume the search for brynden tully. that same afternoon, the lords of the trident came to jaime asking his leave to return to their own lands. he granted it. lord piper also wanted to know about his son marq. all the captives will be ransomed, jaime promised. as the riverlords took their leave, lord karyl vance lingered to say, lord jaime, you must go to raventree. so long as it is jonos at his gates tytos will never yield, but i know he will bend his knee for you. jaime thanked him for his counsel. strongboar was the next to depart. he wanted to return to darry as he'd promised and fight the outlaws. we rode across half the bloody realm and for what? so you could make edmure tully piss his breeches? there's no song in that. i need a fight. i want the hound, jaime. him, or the marcher lord. the hound's head is yours if you can take it, jaime said, but beric dondarrion is to be captured alive, so he can be brought back to king's landing. a thousand people need to see him die, or else he won't stay dead. strongboar grumbled at that, but finally agreed. the next day he departed with his squire and men-at-arms, plus beardless jon bettley, who had decided that hunting outlaws was preferable to returning to his famously homely wife. supposedly she had the beard that bettley lacked. jaime still had the garrison to deal with. to a man, they swore that they knew nothing of ser brynden's plans or where he might have gone. they are lying, emmon frey insisted, but jaime thought not. if you share your plans with no one, no one can betray you, he pointed out. lady genna suggested that a few of the men might be put to the question. he refused. i gave edmure my word that if he yielded, the garrison could leave unharmed. that was chivalrous of you, his aunt said, but it's strength that's needed here, not chivalry. ask edmure how chivalrous i am, thought jaime. ask him about the trebuchet. somehow he did not think the maesters were like to confuse him with prince aemon the dragonknight when they wrote their histories. still, he felt curiously content. the war was all but won. dragonstone had fallen and storm's end would soon enough, he could not doubt, and stannis was welcome to the wall. the northmen would love him no more than the storm lords had. if roose bolton did not destroy him, winter would. and he had done his own part here at riverrun without actually ever taking up arms against the starks or tullys. once he found the blackfish, he would be free to return to king's landing, where he belonged. my place is with my king. with my son. would tommen want to know that? the truth could cost the boy his throne. would you sooner have a father or a chair, lad? jaime wished he knew the answer. he does like stamping papers with his seal. the boy might not even believe him, to be sure. cersei would say it was a lie. my sweet sister, the deceiver. he would need to find some way to winkle tommen from her clutches before the boy became another joffrey. and whilst at that, he should find the lad a new small council too. if cersei can be put aside, ser kevan may agree to serve as tommen's hand. and if not, well, the seven kingdoms did not lack for able men. forley prester would make a good choice, or roland crakehall. if someone other than a westerman was needed to appease the tyrells, there was always mathis rowan... or even petyr baelish. little finger was as amiable as he was clever, but too lowborn to threaten any of the great lords, with no swords of his own. the perfect hand. the tully garrison departed the next morning, stripped of all their arms and armor. each man was allowed three days' food and the clothing on his back, after he swore a solemn oath never to take up arms against lord emmon or house lannister. if you're fortunate, one man in ten may keep that vow, lady genna said. good. i'd sooner face nine men than ten. the tenth might have been the one who would have killed me. the other nine will kill you just as quick. better that than die in bed. or on the privy. two men did not choose to depart with the others. ser desmond grell, lord hoster's old master-at-arms, preferred to take the black. so did ser robin ryger, riverrun' s captain of guards. this castle's been my home for forty years, said grell. you say i'm free to go, but where? i'm too old and too stout to make a hedge knight. but men are always welcome at the wall. as you wish, said jaime, though it was a bloody nuisance. he allowed them to keep their arms and armor, and assigned a dozen of gregor clegane's men to escort the two of them to maidenpool. the command he gave to rafford, the one they called the sweetling. see to it that the prisoners reach maidenpool unspoiled, he told the man, or what ser gregor did to the goat will seem a jolly lark compared to what i'll do to you. more days passed. lord emmon assembled all of riverrun in the yard, lord edmure's people and his own, and spoke to them for close on three hours about what would be expected of them now that he was their lord and master. from time to time he waved his parchment, as stableboys and serving girls and smiths listened in a sullen silence and a light rain fell down upon them all. the singer was listening too, the one that jaime had taken from ser ryman frey. jaime came upon him standing inside an open door, where it was dry. his lordship should have been a singer, the man said. this speech is longer than a marcher ballad, and i don't think he's stopped for breath. jaime had to laugh. lord emmon does not need to breathe, so long as he can chew. are you going to make a song of it? a funny one. i'll call it 'talking to the fish.' just don't play it where my aunt can hear. jaime had never paid the man much mind before. he was a small fellow, garbed in ragged green breeches and a frayed tunic of a lighter shade of green, with brown leather patches covering the holes. his nose was long and sharp, his smile big and loose. thin brown hair fell to his collar, snaggled and unwashed. fifty if he's a day, thought jaime, a hedge harp, and hard used by life. weren't you ser ryman's man when i found you? he asked. only for a fortnight. i would have expected you to depart with the freys. that one up there's a frey, the singer said, nodding at lord emmon, and this castle seems a nice snug place to pass the winter. whitesmile wat went home with ser forley, so i thought i'd see if i could win his place. wat's got that high sweet voice that the likes o' me can't hope to match. but i know twice as many bawdy songs as he does. begging my lord's pardon. you should get on famously with my aunt, said jaime. if you hope to winter here, see that your playing pleases lady genna. she's the one that matters. not you? my place is with the king. i shall not stay here long. i'm sorry to hear that, my lord. i know better songs than 'the rains of castamere.' i could have played you... oh, all sorts o' things. some other time, said jaime. do you have a name? tom of sevenstreams, if it please my lord. the singer doffed his hat. most call me tom o' sevens, though. sing sweetly, tomo' sevens. that night he dreamt that he was back in the great sept of baelor, still standing vigil over his father's corpse. the sept was still and dark, until a woman emerged from the shadows and walked slowly to the bier. sister? he said. but it was not cersei. she was all in grey, a silent sister. a hood and veil concealed her features, but he could see the candles burning in the green pools of her eyes. sister, he said, what would you have of me? his last word echoed up and down the sept, mememememememe . i am not your sister, jaime. she raised a pale soft hand and pushed her hood back. have you forgotten me? can i forget someone i never knew? the words caught in his throat. he did know her, but it had been so long... will you forget your own lord father too? i wonder if you ever knew him, truly. her eyes were green, her hair spun gold. he could not tell how old she was. fifteen, he thought, or fifty. she climbed the steps to stand above the bier. he could never abide being laughed at. that was the thing he hated most. who are you? he had to hear her say it. the question is, who are you? this is a dream. is it? she smiled sadly. count your hands, child. one. one hand, clasped tight around the sword hilt. only one. in my dreams i always have two hands. he raised his right arm and stared uncomprehending at the ugliness of his stump. we all dream of things we cannot have. tywin dreamed that his son would be a great knight, that his daughter would be a queen. he dreamed they would be so strong and brave and beautiful that no one would ever laugh at them. i am a knight, he told her, and cersei is a queen. a tear rolled down her cheek. the woman raised her hood again and turned her back on him. jaime called after her, but already she was moving away, her skirt whispering lullabies as it brushed across the floor. don't leave me, he wanted to call, but of course she'd left them long ago. he woke in darkness, shivering. the room had grown cold as ice. jaime flung aside the covers with the stump of his sword hand. the fire in the hearth had died, he saw, and the window had blown open. he crossed the pitch-dark chamber to fumble with the shutters, but when he reached the window his bare foot came down in something wet. jaime recoiled, startled for a moment. his first thought was of blood, but blood would not have been so cold. it was snow, drifting through the window. instead of closing the shutters he threw them wide. the yard below was covered by a thin white blanket, growing thicker even as he watched. the merlons on the battlements wore white cowls. the flakes fell silently, a few drifting in the window to melt upon his face. jaime could see his own breath. snow in the riverlands. if it was snowing here, it could well be snowing on lannisport as well, and on king's landing. winter is marching south, and half our granaries are empty. any crops still in the fields were doomed. there would be no more plantings, no more hopes of one last harvest. he found himself wondering what his father would do to feed the realm, before he remembered that tywin lannister was dead. when morning broke the snow was ankle deep, and deeper in the godswood, where drifts had piled up under the trees. squires, stableboys, and highborn pages turned to children again under its cold white spell, and fought a snowball war up and down the wards and all along the battlements. jaime heard them laughing. there was a time, not long ago, when he might have been out making snowballs with the best of them, to fling at tyrion when he waddled by, or slip down the back of cersei's gown. you need two hands to make a decent snowball, though. there was a rap upon his door. see who that is, peck. it was riverrun's old maester, with a message clutched in his lined and wrinkled hand. vyman's face was as pale as the new-fallen snow. i know, jaime said, there has been a white raven from the citadel. winter has come. no, my lord. the bird was from king's landing. i took the liberty... i did not know... he held the letter out. jaime read it in the window seat, bathed in the light of that cold white morning. qyburn's words were terse and to the point, cersei's fevered and fervent. come at once, she said. help me. save me. i need you now as i have never needed you before. i love you. i love you. i love you. come at once. vyman was hovering by the door, waiting, and jaime sensed that peck was watching too. does my lord wish to answer? the maester asked, after a long silence. a snowflake landed on the letter. as it melted, the ink began to blur. jaime rolled the parchment up again, as tight as one hand would allow, and handed it to peck. no, he said. put this in the fire. 