sam was reading about the others when he saw the mouse. his eyes were red and raw. i ought not rub them so much, he always told himself as he rubbed them. the dust made them itch and water, and the dust was everywhere down here. little puffs of it filled the air every time a page was turned, and it rose in grey clouds whenever he shifted a stack of books to see what might be hiding on the bottom. sam did not know how long it had been since last he'd slept, but scarce an inch remained of the fat tallow candle he'd lit when starting on the ragged bundle of loose pages that he'd found tied up in twine. he was beastly tired, but it was hard to stop. one more book, he had told himself, then i'll stop. one more folio, just one more. one more page, then i'll go up and rest and get a bite to eat. but there was always another page after that one, and another after that, and another book waiting underneath the pile. i'll just take a quick peek to see what this one is about, he'd think, and before he knew he would be halfway through it. he had not eaten since that bowl of bean-and-bacon soup with pyp and grenn. well, except for the bread and cheese, but that was only a nibble, he thought. that was when he took a quick glance at the empty platter, and spied the mouse feasting on the bread crumbs. the mouse was half as long as his pinky finger, with black eyes and soft grey fur. sam knew he ought to kill it. mice might prefer bread and cheese, but they ate paper too. he had found plenty of mouse droppings amongst the shelves and stacks, and some of the leather covers on the books showed signs of being gnawed. it is such a little thing, though. and hungry. how could he begrudge it a few crumbs? it's eating books, though... after hours in the chair sam's back was stiff as a board, and his legs were half-asleep. he knew he was not quick enough to catch the mouse, but it might be he could squash it. by his elbow rested a massive leather-bound copy of annals of the black centaur, septon jorquen's exhaustively detailed account of the nine years that orbert caswell had served as lord commander of the night's watch. there was a page for each day of his term, every one of which seemed to begin, lord orbert rose at dawn and moved his bowels, except for the last, which said, lord orbert was found to have died during the night. no mouse is a match for septon jorquen. very slowly, sam took hold of the book with his left hand. it was thick and heavy, and when he tried to lift it one-handed, it slipped from his plump fingers and thumped back down. the mouse was gone in half a heartbeat, skittery-quick. sam was relieved. squishing the poor little thing would have given him nightmares. you shouldn't eat the books, though, he said aloud. maybe he should bring more cheese the next time he came down here. he was surprised at how low the candle had burned. had the bean-and-bacon soup been today or yesterday? yesterday. it must have been yesterday. the realization made him yawn. jon would be wondering what had become of him, though maester aemon would no doubt understand. before he had lost his sight, the maester had loved books as much as samwell tarly did. he understood the way that you could sometimes fall right into them, as if each page was a hole into another world. pushing himself to his feet, sam grimaced at the pins and needles in his calves. the chair was very hard and cut into the back of his thighs when he bent over a book. i need to remember to bring a cushion. it would be even better if he could sleep down here, in the cell he'd found half- hidden behind four chests full of loose pages that had gotten separated from the books they belonged to, but he did not want to leave maester aemon alone for so long. he had not been strong of late and required help, especially with the ravens. aemon had clydas, to be sure, but sam was younger, and better with the birds. with a stack of books and scrolls under his left arm and the candle in his right hand, sam made his way through the tunnels the brothers called the wormways. a pale shaft of light illuminated the steep stone steps that led up to the surface, so he knew that day had come up top. he left the candle burning in a wall niche and began the climb. by the fifth step he was puffing. at the tenth he stopped to shift the books to his right arm. he emerged beneath a sky the color of white lead. a snow sky, sam thought, squinting up. the prospect made him uneasy. he remembered that night on the fist of the first men when the wights and the snows had come together. don't be so craven, he thought. you have your sworn brothers all around you, not to mention stannis baratheon and all his knights. castle black's keeps and towers rose about him, dwarfed by the icy immensity of the wall. a small army was crawling over the ice a quarter of the way up, where a new switchback stair was creeping upward to meet the remnants of the old one. the sounds of their saws and hammers echoed off the ice. jon had the builders working night and day on the task. sam had heard some of them complaining about it over supper, insisting that lord mormont never worked them half so hard. without the great stair there was no way to reach the top of the wall except by the chain winch, however. and as much as samwell tarly hated steps, he hated the winch cage more. he always closed his eyes when he was riding it, convinced that the chain was about to break. every time the iron cage scraped against the ice his heart stopped beating for an instant. there were dragons here two hundred years ago, sam found himself thinking, as he watched the cage making a slow descent. they would just have flown to the top of the wall. queen alysanne had visited castle black on her dragon, and jaehaerys, her king, had come after her on his own. could silverwing have left an egg behind? or had stannis found one egg on dragonstone? even if he has an egg, how can he hope to quicken it? baelor the blessed had prayed over his eggs, and other targaryens had sought to hatch theirs with sorcery. all they got for it was farce and tragedy. samwell, said a glum voice, i was coming to fetch you. i was told to bring you to the lord commander. a snowflake landed on sam's nose. jon wants to see me? as to that, i could not say, said dolorous edd tollett. i never wanted to see half the things i've seen, and i've never seen half the things i wanted to. i don't think wanting comes into it. you'd best go all the same. lord snow wishes to speak with you as soon as he is done with craster's wife. gilly. that's the one. if my wet nurse had looked like her, i'd still be on the teat. mine had whiskers. most goats do, called pyp, as he and grenn emerged from around the corner, with longbows in hand and quivers of arrows on their backs. where have you been, slayer? we missed you last night at supper. a whole roast ox went uneaten. don't call me slayer. sam ignored the gibe about the ox. that was just pyp. i was reading. there was a mouse... don't mention mice to grenn. he's terrified of mice. i am not, grenn declared with indignation. you'd be too scared to eat one. i'd eat more mice than you would. dolorous edd tollett gave a sigh. when i was a lad, we only ate mice on special feast days. i was the youngest, so i always got the tail. there's no meat on the tail. where's your longbow, sam? asked grenn. ser alliser used to call him aurochs, and every day he seemed to grow into the name a little more. he had come to the wall big but slow, thick of neck, thick of waist, red of face, and clumsy. though his neck still reddened when pyp twisted him around into some folly, hours of work with sword and shield had flattened his belly, hardened his arms, broadened his chest. he was strong, and shaggy as an aurochs too. ulmer was expecting you at the butts. ulmer, sam said, abashed. almost the first thing jon snow had done as lord commander was institute daily archery drill for the entire garrison, even stewards and cooks. the watch had been placing too much emphasis on the sword and too little on the bow, he had said, a relic of the days when one brother in every ten had been a knight, instead of one in every hundred. sam saw the sense in the decree, but he hated longbow practice almost as much as he hated climbing steps. when he wore his gloves he could never hit anything, but when he took them off he got blisters on his fingers. those bows were dangerous. satin had torn off half his thumbnail on a bowstring. i forgot. you broke the heart of the wildling princess, slayer, said pyp. of late, val had taken to watching them from the window of her chamber in the king's tower. she was looking for you. she was not! don't say that! sam had only spoken to val twice, when maester aemon called upon her to make sure the babes were healthy. the princess was so pretty that he oft found himself stammering and blushing in her presence. why not? asked pyp. she wants to have your children. maybe we should call you sam the seducer. sam reddened. king stannis had plans for val, he knew; she was the mortar with which he meant to seal the peace between the northmen and the free folk. i don't have time for archery today, i need to go see jon. jon? jon? do we know anyone named jon, grenn? he means the lord commander. ohhh. the great lord snow. to be sure. why do you want to see him? he can't even wiggle his ears. pyp wiggled his, to show he could. they were large ears, and red from cold. he's lord snow for true now, too bloody highborn for the likes of us. jon has duties, sam said in his defense. the wall is his, and all that goes with it. a man has duties to his friends as well. if not for us, janos slynt might be our lord commander. lord janos would have sent snow ranging naked on a mule. 'scamper on up to craster's keep,' he would have said, 'and fetch me back the old bear's cloak and boots.' we saved him from that, but now he has too many duties to drink a cup of mulled wine by the fire? grenn agreed. his duties don't keep him from the yard. more days than not, he's out there fighting someone. that was true, sam had to admit. once, when jon came to consult with maester aemon, sam had asked him why he spent so much time at swordplay. the old bear never trained much when he was lord commander, he had pointed out. in answer, jon had pressed longclaw into sam's hand. he let him feel the lightness, the balance, had him turn the blade so that ripples gleamed in the smoke-dark metal. valyrian steel, he said, spell-forged and razor-sharp, nigh on indestructible. a swordsman should be as good as his sword, sam. longclaw is valyrian steel, but i'm not. the halfhand could have killed me as easy as you swat a bug. sam handed back the sword. when i try to swat a bug, it always flies away. all i do is slap my arm. it stings. that made jon laugh. as you will. qhorin could have killed me as easy as you eat a bowl of porridge. sam was fond of porridge, especially when it was sweetened with honey. i don't have time for this. sam left his friends and made his way toward the armory, clutching his books to his chest. i am the shield that guards the realms of men, he remembered. he wondered what those men would say if they realized their realms were being guarded by the likes of grenn, pyp, and dolorous edd. the lord commander's tower had been gutted by fire, and stannis baratheon had claimed the king's tower for his own residence, so jon snow had established himself in donal noye's modest quarters behind the armory. gilly was leaving as sam arrived, wrapped up in the old cloak he'd given her when they were fleeing craster's keep. she almost rushed right past him, but sam caught her arm, spilling two books as he did. gilly. sam. her voice sounded raw. gilly was dark-haired and slim, with the big brown eyes of a doe. she was swallowed by the folds of sam's old cloak, her face half-hidden by its hood, but shivering all the same. her face looked wan and frightened. what's wrong? sam asked her. how are the babes? gilly pulled loose from him. they're good, sam. good. between the two of them it's a wonder you can sleep, sam said pleasantly. which one was it that i heard crying last night? i thought he'd never stop. dalla's boy. he cries when he wants the teat. mine... mine hardly ever cries. sometimes he gurgles, but... her eyes filled with tears. i have to go. it's past time that i fed them. i'll be leaking all over myself if i don't go. she rushed across the yard, leaving sam perplexed behind her. he had to get down on his knees to gather up the books he'd dropped. i should not have brought so many, he told himself as he brushed the dirt off colloquo votar's jade compendium, a thick volume of tales and legends from the east that maester aemon had commanded him to find. the book appeared undamaged. maester thomax's dragonkin, being a history of house targaryen from exile to apotheosis, with a consideration of the life and death of dragons had not been so fortunate. it had come open as it fell, and a few pages had gotten muddy, including one with a rather nice picture of balerion the black dread done in colored inks. sam cursed himself for a clumsy oaf as he smoothed the pages down and brushed them off. gilly's presence always flustered him and gave rise to... well, risings. a sworn brother of the night's watch should not be feeling the sorts of things that gilly made him feel, especially when she would talk about her breasts and... lord snow is waiting. two guards in black cloaks and iron halfhelms stood by the doors of the armory, leaning on their spears. hairy hal was the one who'd spoken. mully helped sam back to his feet. he blurted out thanks and hurried past them, clutching desperately at the stack of books as he made his way past the forge with its anvil and bellows. a shirt of ringmail rested on his workbench, half-completed. ghost was stretched out beneath the anvil, gnawing on the bone of an ox to get at the marrow. the big white direwo if looked up when sam went by, but made no sound. jon's solar was back beyond the racks of spears and shields. he was reading a parchment when sam entered. lord commander mormont's raven was on his shoulder, peering down as if it were reading too, but when the bird spied sam it spread its wings and flapped toward him crying, corn, corn! shifting the books, sam thrust his arm into the sack beside the door and came out with a handful of kernels. the raven landed on his wrist and took one from his palm, pecking so hard that sam yelped and snatched his hand back. the raven took to the air again, and yellow and red kernels went everywhere. close the door, sam. faint scars still marked jon's cheek, where an eagle had once tried to rip his eye out. did that wretch break the skin? sam eased the books down and peeled off his glove. he did. he felt faint. i'm bleeding. we all shed our blood for the watch. wear thicker gloves. jon shoved a chair toward him with a foot. sit, and have a look at this. he handed him the parchment. what is it? asked sam. the raven began to hunt out corn kernels amongst the rushes. a paper shield. sam sucked at the blood on his palm as he read. he knew maester aemon's hand on sight. his writing was small and precise, but the old man could not see where the ink had blotted, and sometimes he left unsightly smears. a letter to king tommen? at winterfell tommen fought my brother bran with wooden swords. he wore so much padding he looked like a stuffed goose. bran knocked him to the ground. jon went to the window. yet bran's dead, and pudgy pink-faced tommen is sitting on the iron throne, with a crown nestled amongst his golden curls. bran's not dead, sam wanted to say. he's gone beyond the wall with coldhands. the words caught in his throat. i swore i would not tell. you haven't signed the letter. the old bear begged the iron throne for help a hundred times. they sent him janos slynt. no letter will make the lannisters love us better. not once they hear that we've been helping stannis. only to defend the wall, not in his rebellion. sam read the letter quickly once again. that's what it says here. the distinction may escape lord tywin. jon took the letter back. why would he help us now? he never did before. well, said sam, he will not want it said that stannis rode to the defense of the realm whilst king tommen was playing with his toys. that would bring scorn down upon house lannister. it's death and destruction i want to bring down upon house lannister, not scorn. jon lifted up the letter. the night's watch takes no part in the wars of the seven kingdoms, he read. our oaths are sworn to the realm, and the realm now stands in dire peril. stannis baratheon aids us against our foes from beyond the wall, though we are not his men... well, said sam, squirming, we're not. are we? i gave stannis food, shelter, and the nightfort, plus leave to settle some free folk in the gift. that's all. lord tywin will say it was too much. stannis says it's not enough. the more you give a king the more he wants. we are walking on a bridge of ice with an abyss on either side. pleasing one king is difficult enough. pleasing two is hardly possible. yes, but... if the lannisters should prevail and lord tywin decides that we betrayed the king by aiding stannis, it could mean the end of the night's watch. he has the tyrells behind him, with all the strength of highgarden. and he did defeat lord stannis on the blackwater. the sight of blood might make sam faint, but he knew how wars were won. his own father had seen to that. the blackwater was one battle. robb won all his battles and still lost his head. if stannis can raise the north... he's trying to convince himself, sam realized, but he can't. the ravens had gone forth from castle black in a storm of black wings, summoning the lords of the north to declare for stannis baratheon and join their strength to his. sam had sent out most of them himself. thusfar only one bird had returned, the one they'd sent to karhold. elsewise the silence had been thunderous. even if he should somehow win the northmen to his side, sam did not see how stannis could hope to match the combined powers of casterly rock, highgarden, and the twins. yet without the north, his cause was surely doomed. as doomed as the night's watch, if lord tywin marks us down as traitors. the lannisters have northmen of their own. lord bolton and his bastard. stannis has the karstarks. if he can win white harbor... if, sam stressed. if not... my lord, even a paper shield is better than none. jon rattled the letter. i suppose so. he sighed, then took up a quill and scrawled a signature across the bottom of the letter. get the sealing wax. sam heated a stick of black wax over a candle and dribbled some onto the parchment, then watched as jon pressed the lord commander's seal down firmly on the puddle. take this to maester aemon when you leave, he commanded, and tell him to dispatch a bird to king's landing. i will. sam hesitated. my lord, if i might ask... i saw gilly leaving. she was almost crying. val sent her to plead for mance again. oh. val was the sister of the woman the king-beyond-the-wall had taken for his queen. the wildling princess was what stannis and his men were calling her. her sister dalla had died during the battle, though no blade had ever touched her; she had perished giving birth to mance rayder's son. rayder himself would soon follow her to the grave, if the whispers sam had heard had any truth to them. what did you tell her? that i would speak to stannis, though i doubt my words will sway him. a king's first duty is to defend the realm, and mance attacked it. his grace is not like to forget that. my father used to say that stannis baratheon was a just man. no one has ever said he was forgiving. jon paused, frowning. i would sooner take off mance's head myself. he was a man of the night's watch, once. by rights, his life belongs to us. pyp says that lady melisandre means to give him to the flames, to work some sorcery. pyp should learn to hold his tongue. i have heard the same from others. king's blood, to wake a dragon. where melisandre thinks to find a sleeping dragon, no one is quite sure. it's nonsense. mance's blood is no more royal than mine own. he has never worn a crown nor sat a throne. he's a brigand, nothing more. there's no power in brigand's blood. the raven looked up from the floor. blood, it screamed. jon paid no mind. i am sending gilly away. oh. sam bobbed his head. well, that's... that's good, my lord. it would be the best thing for her, to go somewhere warm and safe, well away from the wall and the fighting. her and the boy. we will need to find another wet nurse for his milk brother. goat's milk might serve, until you do. it's better for a babe than cow's milk. sam had read that somewhere. he shifted in his seat. my lord, when i was looking through the annals i came on another boy commander. four hundred years before the conquest. osric stark was ten when he was chosen, but he served for sixty years. that's four, my lord. you're not even close to being the youngest ever chosen. you're fifth youngest, so far. the younger four all being sons, brothers, or bastards of the king in the north. tell me something useful. tell me of our enemy. the others. sam licked his lips. they are mentioned in the annals, though not as often as i would have thought. the annals i've found and looked at, that is. there's more i haven't found, i know. some of the older books are falling to pieces. the pages crumble when i try and turn them. and the really old books... either they have crumbled all away or they are buried somewhere that i haven't looked yet or... well, it could be that there are no such books, and never were. the oldest histories we have were written after the andals came to westeros. the first men only left us runes on rocks, so everything we think we know about the age of heroes and the dawn age and the long night comes from accounts set down by septons thousands of years later. there are archmaesters at the citadel who question all of it. those old histories are full of kings who reigned for hundreds of years, and knights riding around a thousand years before there were knights. you know the tales, brandon the builder, symeon star-eyes, night's king... we say that you're the nine hundred and ninety-eighth lord commander of the night's watch, but the oldest list i've found shows six hundred seventy- four commanders, which suggests that it was written during... long ago, jon broke in. what about the others? i found mention of dragonglass. the children of the forest used to give the night's watch a hundred obsidian daggers every year, during the age of heroes. the others come when it is cold, most of the tales agree. or else it gets cold when they come. sometimes they appear during snowstorms and melt away when the skies clear. they hide from the light of the sun and emerge by night... or else night falls when they emerge. some stories speak of them riding the corpses of dead animals. bears, direwolves, mammoths, horses, it makes no matter, so long as the beast is dead. the one that killed small paul was riding a dead horse, so that part's plainly true. some accounts speak of giant ice spiders too. i don't know what those are. men who fall in battle against the others must be burned, or else the dead will rise again as their thralls. we knew all this. the question is, how do we fight them? the armor of the others is proof against most ordinary blades, if the tales can be believed, said sam, and their own swords are so cold they shatter steel. fire will dismay them, though, and they are vulnerable to obsidian. he remembered the one he had faced in the haunted forest, and how it had seemed to melt away when he stabbed it with the dragonglass dagger jon had made for him. i found one account of the long night that spoke of the last hero slaying others with a blade of dragonsteel. supposedly they could not stand against it. dragonsteel? jon frowned. valyrian steel? that was my first thought as well. so if i can just convince the lords of the seven kingdoms to give us their valyrian blades, all is saved? that won't be hard. his laugh had no mirth in it. did you find who the others are, where they come from, what they want? not yet, my lord, but it may be that i've just been reading the wrong books. there are hundreds i have not looked at yet. give me more time and i will find whatever there is to be found. there is no more time. jon sounded sad. you need to get your things together, sam. you're going with gilly. going? for a moment sam did not understand. i'm going? to eastwatch, my lord? or... where ami... oldtown. oldtown? it came out in a squeak. horn hill was close to oldtown. home. the notion made him light-headed. my father. aemon as well. aemon? maester aemon? but... he's one hundred and two years old, my lord, he can't... you're sending him and me? who will tend the ravens? if they're sick or wounded, who... clydas. he's been with aemon for years. clydas is only a steward, and his eyes are going bad. you need a maester. maester aemon is so frail, a sea voyage... he thought of the arbor and the arbor queen, and almost choked on his tongue. it might... he's old, and... his life will be at risk. i am aware of that, sam, but the risk is greater here. stannis knows who aemon is. if the red woman requires king's blood for her spells... oh. sam paled. dareon will join you at eastwatch. my hope is that his songs will win some men for us in the south. the blackbird will deliver you to braavos. from there you'll arrange your own passage to oldtown. if you still mean to claim gilly' s babe as your bastard, send her and the child on to horn hill. elsewise, aemon will find a servant's place for her at the citadel. my b-b-bastard. he had said that, yes, but... all that water. i could drown. ships sink all the time, and autumn is a stormy season. gilly would be with him, though, and the babe would grow up safe. yes, i... my mother and my sisters will help gilly with the child. i can send a letter, i won't need to go to horn hill myself. dareon could see her to oldtown just as well as me. i'm... i've been working at my archery every afternoon with ulmer, as you commanded... well, except when i'm in the vaults, but you told me to find out about the others. the longbow makes my shoulders ache and raises blisters on my fingers. he showed jon where one had burst. i still do it, though i can hit the target more often than not now, but i'm still the worst archer who ever bent a bow. i like ulmer's stories, though. someone needs to write them down and put them in a book. you do it. they have parchment and ink at the citadel, as well as longbows. i will expect you to continue with your practice. sam, the night's watch has hundreds of men who can loose an arrow, but only a handful who can read or write. i need you to become my new maester. the word made him flinch. no, father, please, i won't speak of it again, i swear it by the seven. let me out, please let me out. my lord, i... my work is here, the books... ... will be here when you return to us. sam put a hand to his throat. he could almost feel the chain there, choking him. my lord, the citadel... they make you cut up corpses there. they make you wear a chain about your neck. if it is chains you want, come with me. for three days and three nights sam had sobbed himself to sleep, manacled hand and foot to a wall. the chain around his throat was so tight it broke the skin, and whenever he rolled the wrong way in his sleep it would cut off his breath. i cannot wear a chain. you can. you will. maester aemon is old and blind. his strength is leaving him. who will take his place when he dies? maester mullin at the shadow tower is more fighter than scholar, and maester harmune of eastwatch is drunk more than he's sober. if you ask the citadel for more maesters... i mean to. we'll have need of every one. aemon targaryen is not so easily replaced, however. jon seemed puzzled. i was certain this would please you. there are so many books at the citadel that no man can hope to read them all. you would do well there, sam. i know you would. no. i could read the books, but... a m-maester must be a healer and b-b-blood makes me faint. he held out a shaky hand for jon to see. i'm sam the scared, not sam the slayer. scared? of what? the chidings of old men? sam, you saw the wights come swarming up the fist, a tide of living dead men with black hands and bright blue eyes. you slew an other. it was the d-d-d-dragonglass, not me. be quiet. you lied and schemed and plotted to make me lord commander. you will obey me. you'll go to the citadel and forge a chain, and if you have to cut up corpses, so be it. at least in oldtown the corpses won't object. he doesn't understand. my lord, sam said, my f-f-f- father, lord randyll, he, he, he, he, he... the life of a maester is a life of servitude. he was babbling, he knew. no son of house tarly will ever wear a chain. the men of horn hill do not bow and scrape to petty lords. if it is chains you want, come with me. jon, i cannot disobey my father. jon, he'd said, but jon was gone. it was lord snow who faced him now, grey eyes as hard as ice. you have no father, said lord snow. only brothers. only us. your life belongs to the night's watch, so go and stuff your smallclothes into a sack, along with anything else you care to take to oldtown. you leave an hour before sunrise. and here's another order. from this day forth, you will not call yourself a craven. you've faced more things this past year than most men face in a lifetime. you can face the citadel, but you'll face it as a sworn brother of the night's watch. i can't command you to be brave, but i can command you to hide your fears. you said the words, sam. remember? i am the sword in the darkness. but he was wretched with a sword, and the darkness scared him. i... i'll try. you won't try. you will obey. obey. mormont's raven flapped its great black wings. as my lord commands. does... does maester aemon know? it was as much his idea as mine. jon opened the door for him. no farewells. the fewer folk who know of this, the better. an hour before first light, by the lichyard. sam did not recall leaving the armory. the next thing he knew he was stumbling through mud and patches of old snow, toward maester aemon' s chambers. i could hide, he told himself. i could hide in the vaults amongst the books. i could live down there with the mouse and sneak up at night to steal food. crazed thoughts, he knew, as futile as they were desperate. the vaults were the first place they would look for him. the last place they would look for him was beyond the wall, but that was even madder. the wildlings would catch me and kill me slowly. they might burn me alive, the way the red woman means to burn mance rayder. when he found maester aemon in the rookery, he gave him jon's letter and blurted out his fears in a great green gush of words. he does not understand. sam felt as if he might throw up. if i don a chain, my lord f-f-f- father... he, he, he... my own father raised the same objections when i chose a life of service, the old man said. it was his father who sent me to the citadel. king daeron had sired four sons, and three had sons of their own. too many dragons are as dangerous as too few, i heard his grace tell my lord father, the day they sent me off. aemon raised a spotted hand to the chain of many metals that dangled loose about his thin neck. the chain is heavy, sam, but my grandsire had the right of it. so does your lord snow. snow, a raven muttered. snow, another echoed. all of them picked it up then. snow, snow, snow, snow, snow. sam had taught them that word. there was no help here, he saw. maester aemon was as trapped as he was. he will die at sea, he thought, despairing. he is too old to survive such a voyage. gilly's little son may die as well, he's not as large and strong as dalla's boy. does jon mean to kill us all? the next morning, sam found himself saddling the mare he'd ridden from horn hill and leading her toward the lichyard beside the eastern road. her saddlebags bulged with cheese and sausages and hard-cooked eggs, and half a salted ham that three-finger hobb had given him on his name day. you're a man who appreciates cooking, slayer, the cook had said. we need more o' your sort. the ham would help, no doubt. eastwatch was a long cold ride away, and there were no towns nor inns in the shadow of the wall. the hour before dawn was dark and still. castle black seemed strangely hushed. at the lichyard, a pair of two-wheeled wayns awaited him, along with black jack bulwer and a dozen seasoned rangers, tough as the garrons they rode. kedge whiteye cursed loudly when his one good eye spied sam. don't mind him, slayer, said black jack. he lost a wager, said we'd need to drag you out squealing from beneath some bed. maester aemon was too frail to ride a horse, so a wayn had been made ready for him, its bed heaped high with furs, and a leather awning fastened overhead to keep off the rain and snow. gilly and her child would ride with him. the second wayn would carry their clothing and possessions, along with a chest of rare old books that aemon thought the citadel might lack. sam had spent half the night searching for them, though he'd found only one in four. and a good thing, or we'd need another wayn. when the maester appeared, he was bundled up in a bearskin three times his size. as clydas led him toward the wayn, a gust of wind came up, and the old man staggered. sam hurried to his side and put an arm about him. another gust like that could blow him over the wall. keep hold of my arm, maester. it's not far. the blind man nodded as the wind pushed back their hoods. it is always warm in oldtown. there is an inn on an island in the honeywine where i used to go when i was a young novice. it will be pleasant to sit there once again, sipping cider. by the time they got the maester into the wayn, gilly had appeared, the child bundled in her arms. beneath her hood her eyes were red from crying. jon turned up at the same time, with dolorous edd. lord snow, maester aemon called, i left a book for you in my chambers. the jade compendium. it was written by the volantene adventurer colloquo votar, who traveled to the east and visited all the lands of the jade sea. there is a passage you may find of interest. i've told clydas to mark it for you. i'll be sure to read it, jon snow replied. a line of pale snot ran from maester aemon's nose. he wiped it away with the back of his glove. knowledge is a weapon, jon. arm yourself well before you ride forth to battle. i will. a light snow had begun to fall, the big soft flakes drifting down lazily from the sky. jon turned to black jack bulwer. make as good a time as you can, but take no foolish risks. you have an old man and a suckling babe with you. see that you keep them warm and well fed. you do the same, m'lord, said gilly. you do the same for t'other. find another wet nurse, like you said. you promised me you would. the boy... dalla's boy... the little prince, i mean... you find him some good woman, so he grows up big and strong. you have my word, jon snow said solemnly. don't you name him. don't you do that till he's past two years. it's ill luck to name them when they're still on the breast. you crows may not know that, but it's true. as you command, my lady. a spasm of anger flashed across gilly's face. don't you call me that. i'm a mother, not a lady. i'm craster's wife and craster's daughter, and a mother. dolorous edd took the babe as gilly climbed into the wayn and covered her legs with some musty pelts. by then the eastern sky was more grey than black. left hand lew was anxious to be off. edd handed the infant up and gilly put him to her breast. this may be the last i ever see of castle black, thought sam as he hoisted himself atop his mare. as much as he had once hated castle black, it was tearing him apart to leave it. let's do this, bulwer commanded. a whip snapped, and the wayns began to rumble slowly down the rutted road as the snow came down around them. sam lingered beside clydas and dolorous edd and jon snow. well, he said, farewell. and to you, sam, said dolorous edd. your boat's not like to sink, i don't think. boats only sink when i'm aboard. jon was watching the wayns. the first time i saw gilly, he said, she was pressed back against the wall of craster's keep, this skinny dark-haired girl with her big belly, cringing away from ghost. he had gotten in among her rabbits, and i think she was frightened that he would tear her open and devour the babe... but it was not the wolf she should have been afraid of, was it? no, sam thought. craster was the danger, her own father. she has more courage than she knows. so do you, sam. have a swift, safe voyage, and take care of her and aemon and the child. jon smiled a strange, sad smile. and pull your hood up. the snowflakes are melting in your hair. the sea made samwell tarly greensick. it was not all his fear of drowning, though that was surely some of it. it was the motion of the ship as well, the way the decks rolled beneath his feet. i have a queasy belly, he confessed to dareon the day they sailed from eastwatch-by-the-sea. the singer slapped him on the back and said, with a belly big as yours, slayer, that is a lot of quease. sam tried to keep a brave face on him, for gilly's sake if little else. she had never seen the sea before. when they were struggling through the snows after fleeing craster's keep, they had come on several lakes, and even those had been a wonder to her. as blackbird slipped away from shore the girl began to tremble, and big salt tears rolled down her cheeks. gods be good, sam heard her whisper. eastwatch vanished first, and the wall grew smaller and smaller in the distance, until it finally disappeared. the wind was coming up by then. the sails were the faded grey of a black cloak that had been washed too often, and gilly's face was white with fear. this is a good ship, sam tried to tell her. you don't have to be afraid. but she only looked at him, held her baby tighter, and fled below. sam soon found himself clutching tightly to the gunwale and watching the sweep of the oars. the way they all moved together was somehow beautiful to behold, and better than looking at the water. looking at the water only made him think of drowning. when he was small his lord father had tried to teach him how to swim by throwing him into the pond beneath horn hill. the water had gotten in his nose and in his mouth and in his lungs, and he coughed and wheezed for hours after ser hyle pulled him out. after that he never dared go in any deeper than his waist. the bay of seals was a lot deeper than his waist, and not so friendly as that little fishpond below his father's castle. its waters were grey and green and choppy, and the wooded shore they followed was a snarl of rocks and whirlpools. even if he could kick and crawl that far somehow, the waves were like to smash him up against some stone and break his head to pieces. looking for mermaids, slayer? asked dareon when he saw sam staring off across the bay. fair-haired and hazel-eyed, the handsome young singer out of eastwatch looked more like some dark prince than a black brother. no. sam did not know what he was looking for, or what he was doing on this boat. going to the citadel to forge a chain and be a maester, to be of better service to the watch, he told himself, but the thought just made him weary. he did not want to be a maester, with a heavy chain wrapped around his neck, cold against his skin. he did not want to leave his brothers, the only friends he'd ever had. and he certainly did not want to face the father who had sent him to the wall to die. it was different for the others. for them, the voyage would have a happy ending. gilly would be safe at horn hill, with all the width of westeros between her and the horrors she had known in the haunted forest. as a serving maid in his father's castle, she would be warm and well fed, a small part of a great world she could never have dreamed of as craster's wife. she would watch her son grow up big and strong, and become a huntsman or a stablehand or a smith. if the boy showed any aptitude for arms, some knight might even take him as a squire. maester aemon was going to a better place as well. it was pleasant to think of him spending whatever time remained him bathed by the warm breezes of oldtown, conversing with his fellow maesters and sharing his wisdom with acolytes and novices. he had earned his rest, a hundred times over. even dareon would be happier. he had always claimed to be innocent of the rape that sent him to the wall, insisting that he belonged at some lord's court, singing for his supper. now he would have that chance. jon had named him a recruiter, to take the place of a man named yoren, who had vanished and was presumed dead. his task would be to travel the seven kingdoms, singing of the valor of the night's watch, and from time to time returning to the wall with new recruits. the voyage would be long and rough, no one could deny that, but for the others at least there would be a happy end. that was sam's solace. i am going for them, he told himself, for the night's watch, and for the happy ending. the longer he looked at the sea, though, the colder and deeper it appeared. but not looking at the water was even worse, sam realized in the cramped cabin beneath the sterncastle that the passengers were sharing. he tried to take his mind off the roiling in his stomach by talking with gilly as she nursed her son. this ship will take us as far as braavos, he said. we'll find another ship to carry us to oldtown. i read a book about braavos when i was small. the whole city is built in a lagoon on a hundred little islands, and they have a titan there, a stone man hundreds of feet high. they have boats instead of horses, and their mummers play out written stories instead of just making up the usual stupid farces. the food is very good too, especially the fish. they have all kinds of clams and eels and oysters, fresh from their lagoon. we ought to have a few days between ships. if we do, we can go and see a mummer show, and have some oysters. he thought that would excite her. he could not have been more wrong. gilly peered at him with flat, dull eyes, looking through some strands of unwashed hair. if you want, m'lord. what do you want? sam asked her. nothing. she turned away from him and moved her son from one breast to the other. the motion of the boat was stirring up the eggs and bacon and fried bread that sam had eaten before the ship set out. all at once he could not stand the cabin one more instant. he pushed himself back to his feet and clambered up the ladder to give his breakfast to the sea. the sickness came on sam so strongly that he did not stop to gauge which way the wind was blowing, so he retched from the wrong rail and ended up spattering himself. even so, he felt much better afterward... though not for long. the ship was blackbird, the largest of the watch's galleys. storm crow and talon were faster, cotter pyke told maester aemon back at eastwatch-by-the-sea, but they were fighting ships, lean, swift birds of prey where the rowers sat on open decks. blackbird was a better choice for the rough waters of the narrow sea beyond skagos. there have been storms, pyke warned them. winter storms are worse, but autumn's are more frequent. the first ten days were calm enough, as blackbird crept across the bay of seals, never out of sight of land. it was cold when the wind was blowing, but there was something bracing about the salt smell in the air. sam could hardly eat, and when he did force something down it did not stay down for long, but aside from that he did not do too badly. he tried to bolster gilly's courage and give her what cheer he could, but that proved hard. she would not come up on deck, no matter what he said, and seemed to prefer to huddle in the dark with her son. the babe liked the ship no more than his mother did, it seemed. when he was not squalling, he was retching up his mother's milk. his bowels were loose and always moving, staining the furs that gilly wrapped him in to keep him warm and filling the air with a brown stench. no matter how many tallow candles sam lit, the smell of shit persisted. it was more pleasant out in the open air, especially when dareon was singing. the singer was known to blackbird's oarsmen, and would play for them as they rowed. he knew all their favorite songs: sad ones like the day they hanged black robin, the mermaid's lament, and autumn of my day, rousing ones like iron lances and seven swords for seven sons, bawdy ones like milady's supper, her little flower, and meggett was a merry maid, a merry maid was she. when he sang the bear and the maiden fair, all the oarsmen joined in, and blackbird seemed to fly across the water. dareon had not been much of a swordsman, sam knew from their days training under alliser thorne, but he had a beautiful voice. honey poured over thunder, maester aemon had once called it. he played woodharp and fiddle too, and even wrote his own songs... though sam did not think them very good. still, it was good to sit and listen, though the chest was so hard and splintery that sam was almost grateful for his fleshy buttocks. fat men take a cushion with them wherever they go, he thought. maester aemon preferred to spend his days on deck as well, huddled beneath a pile of furs and gazing out across the water. what is he looking at? dareon wondered one day. for him it's as dark up here as it is down in the cabin. the old man heard him. though aemon' s eyes had dimmed and gone dark, there was nothing wrong with his ears. i was not born blind, he reminded them. when last i passed this way, i saw every rock and tree and whitecap, and watched the grey gulls flying in our wake. i was five- and-thirty and had been a maester of the chain for sixteen years. egg wanted me to help him rule, but i knew my place was here. he sent me north aboard the golden dragon, and insisted that his friend ser duncan see me safe to eastwatch. no recruit had arrived at the wall with so much pomp since nymeria sent the watch six kings in golden fetters. egg emptied out the dungeons too, so i would not need to say my vows alone. my honor guard, he called them. one was no less a man than brynden rivers. later he was chosen lord commander. bloodraven? said dareon. i know a song about him. 'a thousand eyes, and one,' it's called. but i thought he lived a hundred years ago. we all did. once i was as young as you. that seemed to make him sad. he coughed, and closed his eyes, and went to sleep, swaying in his furs whenever some wave rocked the ship. beneath grey skies they sailed, east and south and east again, as the bay of seals widened about them. the captain, a grizzled brother with a belly like a keg of ale, wore blacks so stained and faded that the crew called him old tattersalt. he seldom said a word. his mate made up for him, blistering the salt air with curses whenever the wind died or the oarsmen seemed to flag. they ate oaten porridge in the mornings, pease porridge in the afternoons, and salt beef, salt cod, and salt mutton at night, and washed it down with ale. dareon sang, sam retched, gilly cried and nursed her babe, maester aemon slept and shivered, and the winds grew colder and more blustery with every passing day. even so, it was a better voyage than the last one sam had taken. he had been no more than ten when he set sail on lord redwyne's galleas, the arbor queen. five times as large as blackbird and magnificent to behold, she had three great burgundy sails and banks of oars that flashed gold and white in the sunlight. the way they rose and fell as the ship departed oldtown had made sam hold his breath... but that was the last good memory he had of the redwyne straits. then as now the sea had made him sick, to his lord father's disgust. and when they reached the arbor, things had gone from bad to worse. lord redwyne's twin sons had despised sam on first sight. every morn they found some fresh way to shame him in the practice yard. on the third day horas redwyne made him squeal like a pig when he begged for quarter. on the fifth his brother hobber clad a kitchen girl in his own armor and let her beat sam with a wooden sword until he began to cry. when she revealed herself, all the squires and pages and stableboys howled with laughter. the boy needs a bit of seasoning, that's all, his father had told lord redwyne that night, but redwyne's fool rattled his rattle and replied, 'aye, a pinch of pepper, a few nice cloves, and an apple in his mouth. thereafter, lord randyll forbade sam to eat apples so long as they remained beneath paxter redwyne's roof. he had been seasick on their voyage home as well, but so relieved to be going that he almost welcomed the taste of vomit at the back of his throat. it was not until they were back at horn hill that his mother told sam that his father had never meant for him to return. horas was to come with us in your place, whilst you remained on the arbor as lord paxter's page and cupbearer. if you had pleased him, you would have been betrothed to his daughter. sam could still recall the soft touch of his mother's hand as she washed the tears off his face with a bit of lace, dampened with her spit. my poor sam, she murmured. my poor poor sam. it will be good to see her again, he thought, as he clung to blackbird's rail and watched waves breaking on the stony shore. if she saw me in my blacks, it might even make her proud. i am a man now, mother, i could tell her, a steward, and a man of the night's watch. my brothers call me sam the slayer sometimes. he would see his brother dickon too, and his sisters. see, i could tell them, see, i was good for something after all. if he went to horn hill, though, his father might be there. the thought made his belly heave again. sam bent over the gunwale and retched, but not into the wind. he had gone to the right rail this time. he was getting good at retching. or so he thought, until blackbird left the land behind and struck east across the bay for the shores of skagos. the island sat at the mouth of the bay of seals, massive and mountainous, a stark and forbidding land peopled by savages. they lived in caves and grim mountain fastnesses, sam had read, and rode great shaggy unicorns to war. skagos meant stone in the old tongue. the skagosi named themselves the stoneborn, but their fellow northmen called them skaggs and liked them little. only a hundred years ago skagos had risen in rebellion. their revolt had taken years to quell and claimed the life of the lord of winterfell and hundreds of his sworn swords. some songs said the skaggs were cannibals; supposedly their warriors ate the hearts and livers of the men they slew. in ancient days, the skagosi had sailed to the nearby isle of skane, seized its women, slaughtered its men, and ate them on a pebbled beach in a feast that lasted for a fortnight. skane remained unpeopled to this day. dareon knew the songs as well. when the bleak grey peaks of skagos rose up from the sea, he joined sam at blackbird's prow, and said, if the gods are good, we may catch a glimpse of a unicorn. if the captain is good, we won't come that close. the currents are treacherous around skagos, and there are rocks that can crack a ship's hull like an egg. but don't you mention that to gilly. she's scared enough. her and that squalling whelp of hers. i don't know which of them is noisier. the only time he ever stops crying is when she shoves a nipple in his mouth, and then she starts to sob. sam had noticed that as well. maybe the babe is hurting her, he said, feebly. if his teeth are coming in... dareon plucked at his lute with one finger, sending up a derisive note. i'd heard that wildlings were braver than that. she is brave, sam insisted, though even he had to admit that he had never seen gilly in such a wretched state. though she hid her face more oft than not and kept the cabin dark, he could see that her eyes were always red, her cheeks wet with tears. when he asked her what was wrong, though, she only shook her head, leaving him to find answers of his own. the sea scares her, that's all, he told dareon. before she came to the wall, all she knew was craster's keep and the woods around it. i don't know that she went more than half a league from the place that she was born. she knows streams and rivers, but she had never seen a lake until we came on one, and the sea... the sea is a scary thing. we've never been out of sight of land. we will be. sam did not relish that part himself. surely a little water does not frighten the slayer. no, sam lied, not me. but gilly... maybe if you played some lullabies for them, it would help the babe to sleep. dareon's mouth twisted in disgust. only if she shoves a plug up his arse. i cannot abide the smell. the next day the rains began, and the seas grew rougher. we had best go below, where it's dry, sam said to aemon, but the old maester only smiled, and said, the rain feels good against my face, sam. it feels like tears. let me stay a while longer, i pray you. it has been a long time since last i wept. if maester aemon meant to stay on deck, old and frail as he was, sam had no choice but to do the same. he stayed beside the old man for nigh unto an hour, huddled in his cloak as a soft, steady rain soaked him to his skin. aemon hardly seemed to feel it. he sighed and closed his eyes, and sam moved closer to him, to shield him from the worst of the wind. he will ask me to help him to the cabin soon, he told himself. he must. but he never did, and finally thunder began to rumble in the distance, off to the east. we have to get below, sam said, shivering. maester aemon did not reply. it was only then that sam realized the old man had gone to sleep. maester, he said, shaking him gently by one shoulder. maester aemon, wake up. aemon's blind white eyes came open. egg? he said, as the rain streamed down his cheeks. egg, i dreamed that i was old. sam did not know what to do. he knelt and scooped the old man up and carried him below. no one had ever called him strong, and the rain had soaked through maester aemon's blacks and made him twice as heavy, but even so, he weighed no more than a child. when he shoved into the cabin with aemon in his arms, he found that gilly had let all the candles gutter out. the babe was asleep and she was curled up in a corner, sobbing softly in the folds of the big black cloak that sam had given her. help me, he said urgently. help me dry him off and get him warm. she rose at once, and together they got the old maester out of his wet clothes and buried him beneath a pile of furs. his skin was damp and cold, though, clammy to the touch. you get in with him, sam told gilly. hold him. warm him with your body. we have to warm him up. she did that too, never saying a word, all the while still sniffling. where's dareon? asked sam. we'd all be warmer if we were together. he needs to be here too. he was headed back up top to find the singer when the deck rose up beneath him, then fell away beneath his feet. gilly wailed, sam slammed down hard and lost his legs, and the babe woke screaming. the next roll of the ship came as he was struggling back to his feet. it threw gilly into his arms, and the wildling girl clung to him so fiercely that sam could hardly breathe. don't you be frightened, he told her. this is just an adventure. one day you'll tell your son this tale. that only made her dig her nails into his arm. she shuddered, her whole body shaking with the violence of her sobs. whatever i say just makes her worse. he held her tightly, uncomfortably aware of her breasts pressing up against him. as frightened as he was, somehow that was enough to make him stiff. she'll feel it, he thought, ashamed, but if she did, she gave no sign, only clung to him the harder. the days ran together after that. they never saw the sun. the days were grey and the nights black, except when lightning lit the sky above the peaks of skagos. all of them were starved yet none could eat. the captain broached a cask of firewine to fortify the oarsmen. sam tried a cup and sighed as hot snakes wriggled down his throat and through his chest. dareon took a liking to the drink as well, and was seldom sober thereafter. the sails went up, the sails came down, and one ripped free of the mast and flew away like a great grey bird. as blackbird rounded the south coast of skagos, they spotted the wreckage of a galley on the rocks. some of her crew had washed up on the shore, and the rooks and crabs had gathered to pay them homage. too bloody close, grumbled old tattersalt when he saw. one good blow, and we'll be breaking up aside them. exhausted as they were, his rowers bent to their oars again, and the ship clawed south toward the narrow sea, till skagos dwindled to no more than a few dark shapes in the sky that might have been thunderheads, or the tops of tall black mountains, or both. after that, they had eight days and seven nights of clear, smooth sailing. then came more storms, worse than before. was it three storms, or only one, broken up by lulls? sam never knew, though he tried desperately to care. what does it matter? dareon screamed at him once, when all of them were huddled in the cabin. it doesn't, sam wanted to tell him, but so long as i'm thinking about that i'm not thinking about drowning or being sick or maester aemon's shivering. it doesn't, he managed to squeak, but the thunder drowned out all the rest of it, and the deck lurched and knocked him sideways. gilly was sobbing. the babe was shrieking. and up top he could hear old tattersalt bellowing at his crew, the ragged captain who never spoke at all. i hate the sea, sam thought, i hate the sea, i hate the sea, i hate the sea. the next lightning flash was so bright it lit the cabin through the seams in the planking overhead. this is a good sound ship, a good sound ship, a good ship, he told himself. it will not sink. i am not afraid. during one of the lulls between the gales, as sam clung white-knuckled to the rail wanting desperately to retch, he heard some of the crew muttering that this was what came of bringing a woman aboard ship, and a wildling woman at that. fucked her own father, sam heard one man say, as the wind was rising once again. worse than whoring, that. worse than anything. we'll all drown unless we get rid of her, and that abomination that she whelped. sam dared not confront them. they were older men, hard and sinewy, their arms and shoulders thickened by years at the oars. but he made certain that his knife was sharp, and whenever gilly left the cabin to make water, he went with her. even dareon had no good to say about the wildling girl. once, at sam's urging, the singer played a lullaby to soothe the babe, but partway through the first verse gilly began to sob inconsolably. seven bloody hells, dareon snapped, can't you even stop weeping long enough to hear a song? just play, sam pleaded, just sing the song for her. she doesn't need a song, said dareon. she needs a good spanking, or maybe a hard fuck. get out of my way, slayer. he shoved sam aside and went from the cabin to find some solace in a cup of firewine and the rough brotherhood of the oars. sam was at his wit's end by then. he had almost gotten used to the smells, but between the storms and gilly' s sobbing he had not slept for days. isn't there something you can give her? he asked maester aemon very softly, when he saw that the old man was awake. some herb or potion, so she won't be so afraid? it is not fear you hear, the old man told him. that is the sound of grief, and there is no potion for that. let her tears run their course, sam. you cannot stem the flow. sam had not understood. she's going to a safe place. a warm place. why should she be grieving? sam, the old man whispered, you have two good eyes, and yet you do not see. she is a mother grieving for her child. he's greensick, that's all. we're all greensick. once we make port in braavos... ... the babe will still be dalla's son, and not the child of her body. it took sam a moment to grasp what aemon was suggesting. that couldn't... she wouldn't... of course he's hers. gilly would never have left the wall without her son. she loves him. she nursed them both and loved them both, said aemon, but not alike. no mother loves all her children the same, not even the mother above. gilly did not leave the child willingly, i am certain. what threats the lord commander made, what promises, i can only guess... but threats and promises there surely were. no. no, that's wrong. jon would never... jon would never. lord snow did. sometimes there is no happy choice, sam, only one less grievous than the others. no happy choice. sam thought of all the trials that he and gilly suffered, craster's keep and the death of the old bear, snow and ice and freezing winds, days and days and days of walking, the wights at whitetree, coldhands and the tree of ravens, the wall, the wall, the wall, the black gate beneath the earth. what had it all been for? no happy choices and no happy endings. he wanted to scream. he wanted to howl and sob and shake and curl up in a little ball and whimper. he switched the babes, he told himself. he switched the babes to protect the little prince, to keep him away from lady melisandre's fires, away from her red god. if she burns gilly's boy, who will care? no one but gilly. he was only craster's whelp, an abomination born of incest, not the son of the king-beyond-the-wall. he's no good for a hostage, no good for a sacrifice, no good for anything, he doesn't even have a name. wordless, sam staggered up onto the deck to retch, but there was nothing in his belly to bring up. night had come upon them, a strange still night such as they had not seen for many days. the sea was black as glass. at the oars, the rowers rested. one or two were sleeping where they sat. the wind was in the sails, and to the north sam could even see a scattering of stars, and the red wanderer the free folk called the thief. that ought to be my star, sam thought miserably. i helped to make jon lord commander, and i brought him gilly and the babe. there are no happy endings. slayer. dareon appeared beside him, oblivious to sam's pain. a sweet night, for once. look, the stars are coming out. we might even get a bit of moon. might be the worst is done. no. sam wiped his nose, and pointed south with a fat finger, toward the gathering darkness. there, he said. no sooner had he spoken than lightning flashed, sudden and silent and blinding bright. the distant clouds glowed for half a heartbeat, mountains heaped on mountains, purple and red and yellow, taller than the world. the worst isn't done. the worst is just beginning, and there are no happy endings. gods be good, said dareon, laughing. slayer, you are such a craven. sam stood before the window, rocking nervously as he watched the last light of the sun vanish behind a row of sharp-peaked rooftops. he must have gotten drunk again, he thought glumly. or else he's met another girl. he did not know whether to curse or weep. dareon was supposed to be his brother. ask him to sing, and no one could be better. ask him to do aught else... the mists of evening had begun to rise, sending grey fingers up the walls of the buildings that lined the old canal. he promised he'd be back, sam said. you heard him too. gilly looked at him with eyes red-rimmed and puffy. her hair hung about her face, unwashed and tangled. she looked like some wary animal peering through a bush. it had been days since they'd last had a fire, yet the wildling girl liked to huddle near the hearth, as if the cold ashes still held some lingering warmth. he doesn't like it here with us, she said, whispering so as not to wake the babe. it's sad here. he likes it where the wine is, and the smiles. yes, thought sam, and the wine is everywhere but here. braavos was full of inns, alehouses, and brothels. and if dareon preferred a fire and a cup of mulled wine to stale bread and the company of a weeping woman, a fat craven, and a sick old man, who could blame him? i could blame him. he said he would be back before the gloaming; he said he would bring us wine and food. he looked out the window once more, hoping against hope to see the singer hurrying home. darkness was falling across the secret city, creeping through the alleys and down the canals. the good folk of braavos would soon be shuttering their windows and sliding bars across their doors. night belonged to the bravos and the courtesans. dareon's new friends, sam thought bitterly. they were all the singer could talk about of late. he was trying to write a song about one courtesan, a woman called the moonshadow who had heard him singing beside the moon pool and rewarded him with a kiss. you should have asked her for silver, sam had said. it's coin we need, not kisses. but the singer only smiled. some kisses are worth more than yellow gold, slayer. that made him angry too. dareon was not supposed to be making up songs about courtesans. he was supposed to be singing about the wall and the valor of the night's watch. jon had hoped that perhaps his songs might persuade a few young men to take the black. instead he sang of golden kisses, silvery hair, and red, red lips. no one ever took the black for red, red lips. sometimes his playing would wake the babe too. then the child would begin to wail, dareon would shout at him to be quiet, gilly would weep, and the singer would storm out and not return for days. all that weeping makes me want to slap her, he complained, and i can scarce sleep for her sobbing. you would weep as well if you had a son and lost him, sam almost said. he could not blame gilly for her grief. instead, he blamed jon snow and wondered when jon's heart had turned to stone. once he asked maester aemon that very question, when gilly was down at the canal fetching water for them. when you raised him up to be the lord commander, the old man answered. even now, rotting here in this cold room beneath the eaves, part of sam did not want to believe that jon had done what maester aemon thought. it must be true, though. why else would gilly weep so much? all he had to do was ask her whose child she was nursing at her breast, but he did not have the courage. he was afraid of the answer he might get. i am still a craven, jon. no matter where he went in this wide world, his fears went with him. a hollow rumbling echoed off the roofs of braavos, like the sound of distant thunder; the titan, sounding nightfall from across the lagoon. the noise was loud enough to wake the babe, and his sudden wail woke maester aemon. as gilly went to give the boy the breast, the old man's eyes opened, and he stirred feebly in his narrow bed. egg? it's dark. why is it so dark? because you're blind. aemon's wits were wandering more and more since they arrived at braavos. some days he did not seem to know where he was. some days he would lose his way when saying something and begin to ramble on about his father or his brother. he is one hundred and two, sam reminded himself, but he had been just as old at castle black and his wits had never wandered there. it's me, he had to say. samwell tarly. your steward. sam. maester aemon licked his lips, and blinked. yes. and this is braavos. forgive me, sam. is morning come? no. sam felt the old man's brow. his skin was damp with sweat, cool and clammy to the touch, his every breath a soft wheeze. it's night, maester. you've been asleep. too long. it's cold in here. we have no wood, sam told him, and the innkeep will not give us more unless we have the coin. it was the fourth or fifth time they'd had this same conversation. i should have used our coin for wood, sam chided himself every time. i should have had the sense to keep him warm. instead he had squandered the last of their silver on a healer from the house of the red hands, a tall pale man in robes embroidered with swirling stripes of red and white. all that the silver bought him was half a flask of dreamwine. this may help gentle his passing, the braavosi had said, not unkindly. when sam asked if there wasn't any more that he could do, he shook his head. ointments i have, potions and infusions, tinctures and venoms and poultices. i might bleed him, purge him, leech him... but why? no leech can make him young again. this is an old man, and death is in his lungs. give him this and let him sleep. and so he had, all night and all day, but now the old man was struggling to sit. we must go down to the ships. the ships again. you're too weak to go out, he had to say. a chill had gotten inside maester aemon during the voyage and settled in his chest. by the time they got to braavos, he had been so weak they'd had to carry him ashore. they'd still had a fat bag of silver then, so dareon had asked for the inn's biggest bed. the one they'd gotten was large enough to sleep eight, so the innkeep insisted on charging them for that many. on the morrow we can go to the docks, sam promised. you can ask about and find which ship is departing next for oldtown. even in autumn, braavos was still a busy port. once aemon was strong enough to travel, they should have no trouble finding a suitable vessel to take them where they had to go. paying for their passage would prove more difficult. a ship from the seven kingdoms would be their best hope. a trader out of oldtown, maybe, with kin in the night's watch. there must still be some who honor the men who walk the wall. oldtown, maester aemon wheezed. yes. i dreamt of oldtown, sam. i was young again and my brother egg was with me, with that big knight he served. we were drinking in the old inn where they make the fearsomely strong cider. he tried to rise again, but the effort proved too much for him. after a moment he settled back. the ships, he said again. we will find our answer there. about the dragons. i need to know. no, thought sam, it's food and warmth you need, a full belly and a hot fire crackling in the hearth. are you hungry, maester? we have some bread left, and a bit of cheese. not just now, sam. later, when i'm feeling stronger. how will you get stronger unless you eat? none of them had eaten much at sea, not after skagos. the autumn gales had hounded them all across the narrow sea. sometimes they came up from the south, roiling with thunder and lightning and black rains that fell for days. sometimes they came down from the north, cold and grim, with savage winds that cut right through a man. once it got so cold that sam had woken to find the whole ship coated in ice, shining as white as pearl. the captain had taken down their mast and tied it to the deck, to finish the crossing on oars alone. no one had been eating by the time they saw the titan. once safe ashore, though, sam had found himself ravenously hungry. it was the same for dareon and gilly. even the babe had begun to suck more lustily. aemon, though... the bread's gone stale, but i can beg some gravy from the kitchens to soak it in, sam told the old man. the innkeep was a hard man, cold-eyed and suspicious of these black-clad strangers beneath his roof, but his cook was kinder. no. perhaps a sip of wine, though? they had no wine. dareon had promised to buy some with the coin from his singing. we'll have wine later, sam had to say. there's water, but it's not the good water. the good water came over the arches of the great brick aqueduct the braavosi called the sweetwater river. rich men had it piped into their homes; the poor filled their pails and buckets at public fountains. sam had sent gilly out to get some, forgetting that the wildling girl had lived her whole life in sight of craster's keep and never seen so much as a market town. the stony maze of islands and canals that was braavos, devoid of grass and trees and teeming with strangers who spoke to her in words she could not understand, frightened her so badly that she lost the map and soon herself. sam found her weeping at the stony feet of some long-dead sealord. all we have is canal water, he told maester aemon, but the cook gave it a boil. there's dreamwine too, if you need more of that. i have dreamt enough for now. canal water will suffice. help me, if you would. sam eased the old man up and held the cup to his dry, cracked lips. even so, half the water dribbled down the maester's chest. enough, aemon coughed, after a few sips. you'll drown me. he shivered in sam's arms. why is the room so cold? there's no more wood. dareon had paid the innkeep double for a room with a hearth, but none of them had realized that wood would be so costly here. trees did not grow on braavos, save in the courts and gardens of the mighty. nor would the braavosi cut the pines that covered the outlying islands around their great lagoon and acted as windbreaks to shield them from storms. instead, firewood was brought in by barge, up the rivers and across the lagoon. even dung was dear here; the braavosi used boats in place of horses. none of that would have mattered if they had departed as planned for oldtown, but that had proved impossible with maester aemon so weak. another voyage on the open sea would kill him. aemon' s hand crept across the blankets, groping for sam's arm. we must go to the docks, sam. when you are stronger. the old man was in no state to brave the salt spray and wet winds along the waterfront, and braavos was all waterfront. to the north was the purple harbor, where braavosi traders tied up beneath the domes and towers of the sealord's palace. to the west lay the ragman's harbor, crowded with ships from the other free cities, from westeros and ibben and the fabled, far-off lands of the east. and everywhere else were little piers and ferry berths and old grey wharves where shrimpers and crabbers and fisherfolk moored after working the mudflats and river mouths. it would be too great a strain on you. then go in my stead, aemon urged, and bring me someone who has seen these dragons. me? sam was dismayed by the suggestion. maester, it was only a story. a sailor's story. dareon was to blame for this as well. the singer had been bringing back all manner of queer tales from the alehouses and brothels. unfortunately, he had been in his cups when he heard the one about the dragons and could not recall the details. dareon may have made up the whole story. singers do that. they make things up. they do, said maester aemon, but even the most fanciful song may hold a kernel of truth. find that truth for me, sam. i wouldn't know who to ask, or how to ask him. i only have a little high valyrian, and when they speak to me in braavosi i cannot understand half of what they're saying. you speak more tongues than i do, once you are stronger you can... when will i be stronger, sam? tell me that. soon. if you rest and eat. when we reach oldtown... i shall not see oldtown again. i know that now. the old man tightened his grip on sam's arm. i will be with my brothers soon. some were bound to me by vows and some by blood, but they were all my brothers. and my father... he never thought the throne would pass to him, and yet it did. he used to say that was his punishment for the blow that slew his brother. i pray he found the peace in death that he never knew in life. the septons sing of sweet surcease, of laying down our burdens and voyaging to a far sweet land where we may laugh and love and feast until the end of days... but what if there is no land of light and honey, only cold and dark and pain beyond the wall called death? he is afraid, sam realized. you are not dying. you're ill, that's all. it will pass. not this time, sam. i dreamed... in the black of night a man asks all the questions he dare not ask by daylight. for me, these past years, only one question has remained. why would the gods take my eyes and my strength, yet condemn me to linger on so long, frozen and forgotten? what use could they have for an old done man like me? aemon's fingers trembled, twigs sheathed in spotted skin. i remember, sam. i still remember. he was not making sense. remember what? dragons, aemon whispered. the grief and glory of my house, they were. the last dragon died before you were born, said sam. how could you remember them? i see them in my dreams, sam. i see a red star bleeding in the sky. i still remember red. i see their shadows on the snow, hear the crack of leathern wings, feel their hot breath. my brothers dreamed of dragons too, and the dreams killed them, every one. sam, we tremble on the cusp of half-remembered prophecies, of wonders and terrors that no man now living could hope to comprehend... or... or? said sam. ... or not. aemon chuckled softly. or i am an old man, feverish and dying. he closed his white eyes wearily, then forced them open once again. i should not have left the wall. lord snow could not have known, but i should have seen it. fire consumes, but cold preserves. the wall... but it is too late to go running back. the stranger waits outside my door and will not be denied. steward, you have served me faithfully. do this one last brave thing for me. go down to the ships, sam. learn all you can about these dragons. sam eased his arm out of the old man's grasp. i will. if you want. i only... he did not know what else to say. i cannot refuse him. he could look for dareon as well, along the docks and wharves of the ragman's harbor. i will find dareon first, and we'll go to the ships together. and when we come back, we'll bring food and wine and wood. we'll have a fire and a good hot meal. he rose. well. i should go, then. if i am going. gilly will be here. gilly, bar the door when i am gone. the stranger waits outside the door. gilly nodded, cradling the babe against her breast, her eyes welling full of tears. she is going to weep again, sam realized. it was more than he could take. his swordbelt hung from a peg on the wall, beside the old cracked horn that jon had given him. he ripped it down and buckled it about him, then swept his black wool cloak about his rounded shoulders, slumped through the door, and clattered down a wooden stair whose steps creaked beneath his weight. the inn had two front doors, one opening on a street and one on a canal. sam went out through the former, to avoid the common room where the innkeep was sure to give him the sour eye that he reserved for guests who had overstayed their welcome. there was a chill in the air, but the night was not half so foggy as some. sam was grateful for that much. sometimes the mists covered the ground so thick that a man could not see his own feet. once he had come within a step of walking into a canal. as a boy sam had read a history of braavos and dreamed of one day coming here. he wanted to behold the titan rising stern and fearsome from the sea, glide down the canals in a serpent boat past all the palaces and temples, and watch the bravos do their water dance, blades flashing in the starlight. but now that he was here, all he wanted was to leave and go to oldtown. with his hood up and his cloak flapping, he made his way along the cobblestones toward the ragman's harbor. his swordbelt kept threatening to fall down about his ankles, so he had to keep tugging it back up as he went. he stayed to the smaller, darker streets, where he was less likely to encounter anyone, yet every passing cat still made his heart thump... and braavos crawled with cats. i need to find dareon, he thought. he is a man of the night's watch, my sworn brother; he and i will puzzle out what to do. maester aemon's strength was gone, and gilly would have been lost here even if she had not been grief-stricken, but dareon... i should not think ill of him. he could be hurt, perhaps that is why he did not come back. he could be dead, lying in some alley in a pool of blood, or floating facedown in one of the canals. at night the bravos swaggered through the city in their parti-colored finery, spoiling to prove their skill with those slender swords they wore. some would fight for any cause, some for none at all, and dareon had a loose tongue and quick temper, especially when he'd been drinking. just because a man can sing about battles doesn't mean he's fit to fight one. the best alehouses, inns, and brothels were near the purple harbor or the moon pool, but dareon preferred the ragman's harbor, where the patrons were more apt to speak the common tongue. sam began his search at the inn of the green eel, the black bargeman, and moroggo's, places where dareon had played before. he was not to be found at any of them. outside the foghouse several serpent boats were tied up awaiting patrons, and sam tried to ask the polemen if they had seen a singer all in black, but none of the polemen understood his high valyrian. that, or they do not chose to understand. sam peered into the dingy winesink beneath the second arch of nabbo's bridge, barely large enough to accommodate ten people. dareon was not one of them. he tried the outcast inn, the house of seven lamps, and the brothel called the cattery, where he got strange looks but no help. leaving, he almost bumped into two young men beneath the cattery's red lantern. one was dark and one was fair. the dark-haired one said something in braavosi. i am sorry, sam had to say. i do not understand. he edged away from them, afraid. in the seven kingdoms nobles draped themselves in velvets, silks, and samites of a hundred hues whilst peasants and smallfolk wore raw wool and dull brown roughspun. in braavos it was otherwise. the bravos swaggered about like peacocks, fingering their swords, whilst the mighty dressed in charcoal grey and purple, blues that were almost black and blacks as dark as a moonless night. my friend terro says you are so fat you make him sick, said the fair-haired bravo, whose jacket was green velvet on one side and cloth-of-silver on the other. my friend terro says that the rattle of your sword makes his head ache. he was speaking in the common tongue. the other one, the dark-haired bravo in the burgundy brocade and yellow cloak whose name would appear to have been terro, made some comment in braavosi, and his fair-haired friend laughed, and said, my friend terro says you dress above your station. are you some great lord, to wear the black? sam wanted to run, but if he did was like to trip over his own swordbelt. do not touch your sword, he told himself. even a finger on the hilt might be enough for one or the other of the bravos to take as a challenge. he tried to think of words that might appease them. i'm not   was all he managed. he is not a lord, a child's voice put in. he's in the night's watch, stupid. from westeros. a girl edged into the light, pushing a barrow full of seaweed; a scruffy, skinny creature in big boots, with ragged unwashed hair. there's another one down at the happy port, singing songs to the sailor's wife, she informed the two bravos. to sam she said, if they ask who is the most beautiful woman in the world, say the nightingale or else they'll challenge you. do you want to buy some clams? i sold all my oysters. i have no coin, sam said. he has no coin, mocked the fair-haired bravo. his dark-haired friend grinned and said something in braavosi. my friend terro is chilly. be our good fat friend and give him your cloak. don't do that either, said the barrow girl, or else they'll ask for your boots next, and before long you'll be naked. little cats who howl too loud get drowned in the canals, warned the fair- haired bravo. not if they have claws. and suddenly there was a knife in the girl's left hand, a blade as skinny as she was. the one called terro said something to his fair-haired friend and the two of them moved off, chuckling at one another. thank you, sam told the girl when they were gone. her knife vanished. if you wear a sword at night it means you can be challenged. did you want to fight them? no. it came out in a squeak that made sam wince. are you truly in the night's watch? i never saw a black brother like you before. the girl gestured at the barrow. you can have the last clams if you want. it's dark, no one will buy them now. are you sailing to the wall? to oldtown. sam took one of the baked clams and wolfed it down. we're between ships. the clam was good. he ate another. the bravos never bother anyone without a sword. not even stupid camel cunts like terro and orbelo. who are you? no one. she stank offish. i used to be someone, but now i'm not. you can call me cat, if you like. who are you? samwell, of house tarly. you speak the common tongue. my father was the oarmaster on nymeria. a bravo killed him for saying that my mother was more beautiful than the nightingale. not one of those camel cunts you met, a real bravo. someday i'll slit his throat. the captain said nymeria had no need of little girls, so he put me off. brusco took me in and gave me a barrow. she looked up at him. what ship will you be sailing on? we bought passage on the lady ushanora. the girl squinted at him suspiciously. she's gone. don't you know? she left days and days ago. i know, sam might have said. he and dareon had stood on the dock watching the rise and fall of her oars as she beat for the titan and the open sea. well, the singer said, that's done. if sam had been a braver man, he would have shoved him into the water. when it came to talking girls out of their clothes dareon had a honeyed tongue, yet in the captain's cabin somehow sam had done all the talking, trying to persuade the braavosi to wait for them. three days i have waited for this old man, the captain had said. my holds are full, and my men have fucked their wives farewell. with you or without, my lady leaves on the tide. please, sam had pleaded. just a few more days, that's all i ask. so maester aemon can recover his strength. he has no strength. the captain had visited the inn the night before to see maester aemon for himself. he is old and ill and i will not have him dying on my lady. stay with him or leave him, it matters not to me. i sail. even worse, he had refused to return the passage money they had paid him, the silver that was meant to see them safe to oldtown. you bought my finest cabin. it is there, awaiting you. if you do not choose to occupy it, that is no fault of mine. why should i bear the loss? by now we might be at duskendale, sam thought mournfully. we might even have reached pentos, if the winds were kind. but none of that would matter to the barrow girl. you said you saw a singer... at the happy port. he's going to wed the sailor's wife. wed? she only beds the ones who marry her. where is this happy port? across from the mummer's ship. i can show you the way. i know the way. sam had seen the mummer's ship. dareon cannot wed! he said the words! i have to go. he ran. it was a long way over slick cobbles. before long he was puffing, his big black cloak flapping noisily behind him. he had to keep one hand on his swordbelt as he ran. what few people he encountered gave him curious looks, and once a cat reared up and hissed at him. by the time he reached the ship he was staggering. the happy port was just across the alley. no sooner had he entered, flushed and out of breath, than a one-eyed woman threw her arms around his neck. don't, sam told her, i'm not here for that. she answered in braavosi. i do not speak that tongue, sam said in high valyrian. there were candles burning and a fire crackling in the hearth. someone was sawing on a fiddle, and he saw two girls dancing around a red priest, holding hands. the one-eyed woman pressed her breasts against his chest. don't do that! i'm not here for that! sam! dareon's familiar voice rang out. yna, let him go, that's sam the slayer. my sworn brother! the one-eyed woman peeled away, though she kept one hand on his arm. one of the dancers called out, he can slay me if he likes, and the other said, do you think he'd let me touch his sword? behind them a purple galleas had been painted on the wall, crewed by women clad in thigh-high boots and nothing else. a tyroshi sailor was passed out in a corner, snoring into his huge scarlet beard. elsewhere an older woman with huge breasts was turning tiles with a massive summer islander in black-and-scarlet feathers. in the center of it all sat dareon, nuzzling at the neck of the woman in his lap. she was wearing his black cloak. slayer, the singer called out drunkenly, come meet my lady wife. his hair was sand and honey, his smile warm. i sang her love songs. women melt like butter when i sing. how could i resist this face? he kissed her nose. wife, give slayer a kiss, he's my brother. when the girl got to her feet, sam saw that she was naked underneath the cloak. don't go fondling my wife now, slayer, said dareon, laughing. but if you want one of her sisters, you feel free. i still have coin enough, i think. coin that might have bought us food, sam thought, coin that might have bought wood, so maester aemon could keep warm. what have you done? you can't marry. you said the words, the same as me. they could have your head for this. we're only wed for this one night, slayer. even in westeros no one takes your head for that. haven't you ever gone to mole's town to dig for buried treasure? no. sam reddened. i would never... what about your wildling wench? you must have fucked her a time or three. all those nights in the woods, huddled together under your cloak, don't you tell me that you never stuck it in her. he waved a hand toward a chair. sit down, slayer. have a cup of wine. have a whore. have both. sam did not want a cup of wine. you promised to come back before the gloaming. to bring back wine and food. is this how you killed that other? scolding him to death? dareon laughed. she's my wife, not you. if you will not drink to my marriage, go away. come with me, said sam. maester aemon' s woken up and wants to hear about these dragons. he's talking about bleeding stars and white shadows and dreams and... if we could find out more about these dragons, it might help give him ease. help me. on the morrow. not on my wedding night. dareon pushed himself to his feet, took his bride by the hand, and started toward the stairs, pulling her behind him. sam blocked his way. you promised, dareon. you said the words. you're supposed to be my brother. in westeros. does this look like westeros to you? maester aemon     is dying. that stripey healer you wasted all our silver on said as much. dareon's mouth had turned hard. have a girl or go away, sam. you're ruining my wedding. i'll go, said sam, but you'll come with me. no. i'm done with you. i'm done with black. dareon tore his cloak off his naked bride and tossed it in sam's face. here. throw that rag on the old man, it may keep him a little warmer. i shan't be needing it. i'll be clad in velvet soon. next year i'll be wearing furs and eating   sam hit him. he did not think about it. his hand came up, curled into a fist, and crashed into the singer's mouth. dareon cursed and his naked wife gave a shriek and sam threw himself onto the singer and knocked him backwards over a low table. they were almost of a height, but sam weighed twice as much, and for once he was too angry to be afraid. he punched the singer in the face and in the belly, then began to pummel him about the shoulders with both hands. when dareon grabbed his wrists, sam butted him with his head and broke his lip. the singer let go and he smashed him in the nose. somewhere a man was laughing, a woman cursing. the fight seemed to slow, as if they were two black flies struggling in amber. then someone dragged sam off the singer's chest. he hit that person too, and something hard crashed into his head. the next he knew he was outside, flying headfirst through the fog. for half a heartbeat he saw black water underneath him. then the canal came up and smashed him in the face. sam sank like a stone, like a boulder, like a mountain. the water got into his eyes and up his nose, dark and cold and salty. when he tried to shout for help he swallowed more. kicking and gasping, he rolled over, bubbles bursting from his nose. swim, he told himself, swim. the brine stung his eyes when he opened them, blinding him. he popped to the surface for just an instant, sucked down air, and slapped desperately with one hand whilst the other scrabbled at the wall of the canal. but the stones were slick and slimy and he could not get a grasp. he sank again. sam could feel the cold against his skin as the water soaked through his clothes. his swordbelt slipped down his legs and tangled round his ankles. i'm going to drown, he thought, in a blind black panic. he thrashed, trying to claw his way back to the surface, but instead his face bumped the bottom of the canal. i'm upside down, he realized, i'm drowning. something moved beneath one flailing hand, an eel or a fish, slithering through his fingers. i can't drown, maester aemon will die without me, and gilly will have no one. i have to swim, i have to... there was a huge splash, and something coiled around him, under his arms and around his chest. the eel, was his first thought, the eel has got me, it's going to pull me down. he opened his mouth to scream, and swallowed more water. i'm drowned, was his last thought. oh, gods be good, i'm drowned. when he opened his eyes he was on his back and a big black summer islander was pounding on his belly with fists the size of hams. stop that, you're hurting me, sam tried to scream. instead of words he retched out water, and gasped. he was sodden and shivering, lying on the cobbles in a puddle of canal water. the summer islander punched him in the belly again, and more water came squirting out his nose. stop that, sam gasped. i haven't drowned. i haven't drowned. no. his rescuer leaned over him, huge and black and dripping. you owe xhondo many feathers. the water ruined xhondo 's fine cloak. it had, sam saw. the feathered cloak clung to the black man's huge shoulders, sodden and soiled. i never meant... ... to be swimming? xhondo saw. too much splashing. fat men should float. he grabbed sam's doublet with a huge black fist and hauled him to his feet. xhondo mates on cinnamon wind. many tongues he speaks, a little. inside xhondo laughs, to see you punch the singer. and xhondo hears. a broad white smile spread across his face. xhondo knows these dragons. the cinnamon wind was a swan ship out of tall trees town on the summer isles, where men were black, women were wanton, and even the gods were strange. she had no septon aboard her to lead them in the prayers of passing, so the task fell to samwell tarly, somewhere off the sun-scorched southern coast of dome. sam donned his blacks to say the words, though the afternoon was warm and muggy, with nary a breath of wind. he was a good man, he began... but as soon as he had said the words he knew that they were wrong. no. he was a great man. a maester of the citadel, chained and sworn, and sworn brother of the night's watch, ever faithful. when he was born they named him for a hero who had died too young, but though he lived a long long time, his own life was no less heroic. no man was wiser, or gentler, or kinder. at the wall, a dozen lords commander came and went during his years of service, but he was always there to counsel them. he counseled kings as well. he could have been a king himself, but when they offered him the crown he told them they should give it to his younger brother. how many men would do that? sam felt the tears welling in his eyes, and knew he could not go on much longer. he was the blood of the dragon, but now his fire has gone out. he was aemon targaryen. and now his watch is ended. and now his watch is ended, gilly murmured after him, rocking the babe in her arms. kojja mo echoed her in the common tongue of westeros, then repeated the words in the summer tongue for xhondo and her father and the rest of the assembled crew. sam hung his head and began to weep, his sobs so loud and wrenching that they made his whole body shake. gilly came and stood beside him and let him cry upon her shoulder. there were tears in her eyes as well. the air was moist and warm and dead calm, and the cinnamon wind was adrift upon a deep blue sea far beyond the sight of land. black sam said good words, xhondo said. now we drink his life. he shouted something in the summer tongue, and a cask of spiced rum was rolled up onto the afterdeck and breached, so those on watch might down a cup in the memory of the old blind dragon. the crew had known him only a short while, but summer islanders revered the elderly and celebrated their dead. sam had never drunk rum before. the liquor was strange and heady; sweet at first, but with a fiery aftertaste that burned his tongue. he was tired, so tired. every muscle he had was aching, and there were other aches in places where sam hadn't known he had muscles. his knees were stiff, his hands covered with fresh new blisters and raw, sticky patches of skin where the old blisters had burst. yet between them, rum and sadness seemed to wash his hurts away. if only we could have gotten him to oldtown, the archmaesters might have saved him, he told gilly, as they sipped their rum on the cinnamon wind's high forecastle. the healers of the citadel are the best in the seven kingdoms. for a while i thought... i hoped... on braavos, it had seemed possible that aemon might recover. xhondo 's talk of dragons had almost seemed to restore the old man to himself. that night he ate every bite sam put before him. no one ever looked for a girl, he said. it was a prince that was promised, not a princess. rhaegar, i thought... the smoke was from the fire that devoured summerhall on the day of his birth, the salt from the tears shed for those who died. he shared my belief when he was young, but later he became persuaded that it was his own son who fulfilled the prophecy, for a comet had been seen above king's landing on the night aegon was conceived, and rhaegar was certain the bleeding star had to be a comet. what fools we were, who thought ourselves so wise! the error crept in from the translation. dragons are neither male nor female, barth saw the truth of that, but now one and now the other, as changeable as flame. the language misled us all for a thousand years. daenerys is the one, born amidst salt and smoke. the dragons prove it. just talking of her seemed to make him stronger. i must go to her. i must. would that i was even ten years younger. the old man had been so determined that he had even walked up the plank onto the cinnamon wind on his own two legs, after sam made arrangements for their passage. he had already given his sword and scabbard to xhondo, to repay the big mate for the feathered cloak he'd ruined saving sam from drowning. the only things of value that still remained to them were the books they had brought from the vaults of castle black. sam parted with them glumly. they were meant for the citadel, he said, when xhondo asked him what was wrong. when the mate translated those words, the captain laughed. quhuru mo says the grey men will be having these books still, xhondo told him, only they will be buying them from quhuru mo. the maesters give good silver for books they are not having, and sometimes red and yellow gold. the captain wanted aemon's chain as well, but there sam had refused. it was a great shame for any maester to surrender his chain, he had explained. xhondo had to go over that part three times before quhuru mo accepted it. by the time the dealing was done, sam was down to his boots and blacks and smallclothes, and the broken horn jon snow had found on the fist of first men. i had no choice, he told himself. we could not stay on braavos, and short of theft or beggary, there was no other way to pay for passage. he would have counted it cheap at thrice the price if only they had gotten maester aemon safe to oldtown. their passage south had been a stormy one, however, and every gale took its toll on the old man's strength and spirits. at pentos he asked to be brought up onto deck so sam might paint a picture of the city for him with words, but that was the last time he left the captain's bed. soon after that, his wits began to wander once again. by the time the cinnamon wind swept past the bleeding tower into tyrosh harbor, aemon no longer spoke of trying to find a ship to take him east. instead his talk turned back to oldtown, and the archmaesters of the citadel. you must tell them, sam, he said. the archmaesters. you must make them understand. the men who were at the citadel when i was have been dead for fifty years. these others never knew me. my letters... in oldtown, they must have read like the ravings of an old man whose wits had fled. you must convince them, where i could not. tell them, sam... tell them how it is upon the wall... the wights and the white walkers, the creeping cold... i will, sam promised. i will add my voice to yours, maester. we will both tell them, the two of us together. no, the old man said. it must be you. tell them. the prophecy... my brother's dream... lady melisandre has misread the signs. stannis... stannis has some of the dragon blood in him, yes. his brothers did as well. rhaelle, egg's little girl, she was how they came by it... their father's mother... she used to call me uncle maester when she was a little girl. i remembered that, so i allowed myself to hope... perhaps i wanted to... we all deceive ourselves, when we want to believe. melisandre most of all, i think. the sword is wrong, she has to know that... light without heat... an empty glamor... the sword is wrong, and the false light can only lead us deeper into darkness, sam. daenerys is our hope. tell them that, at the citadel. make them listen. they must send her a maester. daenerys must be counseled, taught, protected. for all these years i've lingered, waiting, watching, and now that the day has dawned i am too old. i am dying, sam. tears ran from his blind white eyes at that admission. death should hold no fear for a man as old as me, but it does. isn't that silly? it is always dark where i am, so why should i fear the darkness? yet i cannot help but wonder what will follow, when the last warmth leaves my body. will i feast forever in the father's golden hall as the septons say? will i talk with egg again, find dareon whole and happy, hear my sisters singing to their children? what if the horselords have the truth of it? will i ride through the night sky forever on a stallion made of flame? or must i return again to this vale of sorrow? who can say, truly? who has been beyond the wall of death to see? only the wights, and we know what they are like. we know. there was little and less that sam could say to that, but he had given the old man what little comfort he could. and gilly came in afterward and sang a song for him, a nonsense song thing that she learned from some of craster's other wives. it made the old man smile and helped him go to sleep. that had been one of his last good days. after that the old man spent more time sleeping than awake, curled up beneath a pile of furs in the captain's cabin. sometimes he would mutter in his sleep. when he woke he'd call for sam, insisting that he had to tell him something, but oft as not he would have forgotten what he meant to say by the time that sam arrived. even when he did recall, his talk was all a jumble. he spoke of dreams and never named the dreamer, of a glass candle that could not be lit and eggs that would not hatch. he said the sphinx was the riddle, not the riddler, whatever that meant. he asked sam to read for him from a book by septon barth, whose writings had been burned during the reign of baelor the blessed. once he woke up weeping. the dragon must have three heads, he wailed, but i am too old and frail to be one of them. i should be with her, showing her the way, but my body has betrayed me. as the cinnamon wind made her way through the stepstones, maester aemon forgot sam's name oft as not. some days he took him for one of his dead brothers. he was too frail for such a long voyage, sam told gilly on the forecastle, after another sip of the rum. jon should have seen that. aemon was a hundred and two years old, he should never have been sent to sea. if he had stayed at castle black, he might have lived another ten years. or else she might have burned him. the red woman. even here, a thousand leagues from the wall, gilly was reluctant to say lady melisandre's name aloud. she wanted king's blood for her fires. val knew she did. lord snow too. that was why they made me take dalla's babe away and leave my own behind in his place. maester aemon went to sleep and didn't wake up, but if he had stayed, she would have burned him. he will still burn, sam thought miserably, only now i have to do it. the targaryens always gave their fallen to the flames. quhuru mo would not allow a funeral pyre aboard the cinnamon wind, so aemon's corpse had been stuffed inside a cask of blackbelly rum to preserve it until the ship reached oldtown. the night before he died, he asked if he might hold the babe, gilly went on. i was afraid he might drop him, but he never did. he rocked him and hummed a song for him, and dalla's boy reached up and touched his face. the way he pulled his lip i thought he might be hurting him, but it only made the old man laugh. she stroked sam's hand. we could name the little one maester, if you like. when he's old enough, not now. we could. maester is not a name. you could call him aemon, though. gilly thought about that. dalla brought him forth during battle, as the swords sang all around her. that should be his name. aemon battleborn. aemon steelsong. a name even my lord father might like. a warrior's name. the boy was mance rayder's son and craster's grandson, after all. he had none of sam's craven blood. yes. call him that. when he is two, she promised, not before. where is the boy? sam thought to ask. between rum and sorrow, it had taken him that long to realize that gilly did not have the babe with her. kojja has him. i asked her to take him for a while. oh. kojja mo was the captain's daughter, taller than sam and slender as a spear, with skin as black and smooth as polished jet. she captained the ship's red archers too, and pulled a double- curved goldenheart bow that could send a shaft four hundred yards. when the pirates had attacked them in the stepstones, kojja's arrows had slain a dozen of them whilst sam's own shafts were falling in the water. the only thing kojja mo loved better than her bow was bouncing dalla's boy upon her knee and singing to him in the summer tongue. the wildling prince had become the darling of all the women in the crew, and gilly seemed to trust them with him as she had never trusted any man. that was kind of kojja, sam said. i was afraid of her at first, said gilly. she was so black, and her teeth were so big and white, i was afraid she was a beast ling or a monster, but she's not. she's good. i like her. i know you do. for most of her life the only man gilly had known had been the terrifying craster. the rest of her world had been female. men frighten her, but women don't, sam realized. he could understand that. back at horn hill he had preferred the company of girls as well. his sisters had been kind to him, and though the other girls would sometimes taunt him, cruel words were easier to shrug off than the blows and buffets he got from the other castle boys. even now, on the cinnamon wind, sam felt more comfortable with kojja mo than with her father, though that might be because she spoke the common tongue and he did not. i like you too, sam, whispered gilly. and i like this drink. it tastes like fire. yes, sam thought, a drink for dragons. their cups were empty, so he went over to the cask and filled them once again. the sun was low in the west, he saw, swollen to thrice its proper size. its ruddy light made gilly's face seem flushed and red. they drank a cup to kojja mo, and one to dalla's boy, and one to gilly's babe back on the wall. and after that nothing would do but to drink two cups for aemon of house targaryen. may the father judge him justly, sam said, sniffing. the sun was almost gone by the time they were done with maester aemon. only a long thin line of red still glowed upon the western horizon, like a slash across the sky. gilly said that the drink was making the ship spin round, so sam helped her down the ladder to the women's quarters in the bow of the ship. there was a lantern hanging just inside the cabin, and he managed to bang his head on it going in. ow, he said, and gilly said, 'are you hurt? let me see. she leaned close... ... and kissed his mouth. sam found himself kissing her back. i said the words, he thought, but her hands were tugging at his blacks, pulling at the laces of his breeches. he broke off the kiss long enough to say, we can't, but gilly said, we can, and covered his mouth with her own again. the cinnamon wind was spinning all around them and he could taste the rum on gilly's tongue and the next thing her breasts were bare and he was touching them. i said the words, sam thought again, but one of her nipples found its way between his lips. it was pink and hard and when he sucked on it her milk filled his mouth, mingling with the taste of rum, and he had never tasted anything so fine and sweet and good. if i do this i am no better than dareon, sam thought, but it felt too good to stop. and suddenly his cock was out, jutting upward from his breeches like a fat pink mast. it looked so silly standing there that he might have laughed, but gilly pushed him back onto her pallet, hiked her skirts up around her thighs, and lowered herself onto him with a little whimpery sound. that was even better than her nipples. she's so wet, he thought, gasping. i never knew a woman could get so wet down there. i am your wife now, she whispered, sliding up and down on him. and sam groaned and thought, no, no, you can't be, i said the words, i said the words, but the only word he said was, yes. afterward she went to sleep with her arms around him and her face across his chest. sam needed sleep as well, but he was drunk on rum and mother's milk and gilly. he knew he ought to crawl back to his own hammock in the men's cabin, but she felt so good curled up against him that somehow he could not move. others came in, men and women both, and he listened to them kissing and laughing and mating with one another. summer islanders. that's how they mourn. they answer death with life. sam had read that somewhere, a long time ago. he wondered if gilly knew, if kojja mo had told her what to do. he breathed the fragrance of her hair and stared at the lantern swinging overhead. even the crone herself could not lead me safely out of this. the best thing he could do would be to slip away and jump into the sea. if i'm drowned, no one need ever know that i shamed myself and broke my vows, and gilly can find herself a better man, one who is not some big fat coward. he awoke the next morning in his own hammock in the men's cabin, with xhondo bellowing about the wind. wind is up, the mate kept shouting. wake and work, black sam. wind is up. what xhondo lacked in vocabulary he made up for in volume. sam rolled from his hammock to his feet, and regretted it at once. his head was fit to split, one of the blisters on his palm had torn open in the night, and he felt as if he were about to retch. xhondo had no mercy, though, so all that sam could do was struggle back into his blacks. he found them on the deck beneath his hammock, all bundled up in one damp heap. he sniffed at them to see how foul they were, and inhaled the smell of salt and sea and tar, wet canvas and mildew, fruit and fish and blackbelly rum, strange spices and exotic woods, and a heady bouquet of his own dried sweat. but gilly's smell was on them too, the clean smell of her hair and the sweet smell of her milk, and that made him glad to wear them. he would have given much and more for warm dry socks, though. some sort of fungus had begun to grow between his toes. the chest of books had not been near enough to buy passage for four from braavos to oldtown. the cinnamon wind was shorthanded, however, so quhuru mo had agreed that he would take them, provided that they worked their way. when sam had protested that maester aemon was too weak, the boy a babe in arms, and gilly terrified of the sea, xhondo only laughed, black sam is big fat man. black sam will work for four. if truth be told, sam was so fumble- fingered that he doubted he was even doing the work of one good man, but he did try. he scrubbed decks and rubbed them smooth with stones, he hauled on anchor chains, he coiled rope and hunted rats, he sewed up torn sails, patched leaks with bubbling hot tar, boned fish and chopped fruit for the cook. gilly tried as well. she was better in the rigging than sam was, though from time to time the sight of so much empty water still made her close her eyes. gilly, sam thought, what am i going to do with gilly? it was a long hot sticky day, made longer by his pounding head. sam busied himself with ropes and sails and the other tasks that xhondo set him, and tried not to let his eyes wander to the cask of rum that held old maester aemon's body... or to gilly. he could not face the wildling girl right now, not after what they'd done last night. when she came up on deck he went below. when she went forward he went aft. when she smiled at him he turned away, feeling wretched. i should have jumped into the sea whilst she was still asleep, he thought. i have always been a craven, but i was never an oathbreaker till now. if maester aemon had not died, sam could have asked him what to do. if jon snow had been aboard, or even pyp and grenn, he might have turned to them. instead he had xhondo. xhondo would not understand what i was saying. or if he did, he'd just tell me to fuck the girl again. fuck had been the first word of the common tongue that xhondo had learned, and he was very fond of it. he was fortunate that the cinnamon wind was so big. aboard the blackbird gilly could have run him down in hardly any time at all. swan ships, the great vessels from the summer isles were called in the seven kingdoms, for their billowing white sails and for their figureheads, most of which depicted birds. large as they were, they rode the waves with a grace that was all their own. with a good brisk wind behind them, the cinnamon wind could outrun any galley, though she was helpless when becalmed. and she offered plenty of places for a craven to hide. near the end of sam's watch, he was finally cornered. he was climbing down a ladder when xhondo seized him by the collar. black sam come with xhondo, he said, dragging him across the deck and dumping him at the feet of kojja mo. far off to the north, a haze was visible low on the horizon. kojja pointed at it. there is the coast of dome. sand and rocks and scorpions, and no good anchorage for hundreds of leagues. you can swim there if you like, and walk to oldtown. you will need to cross the deep desert and climb some mountains and swim the torentine. or else you could go to gilly. you do not understand. last night we... ... honored your dead, and the gods who made you both. xhondo did the same. i had the child, else i would have been with him. all you westerosi make a shame of loving. there is no shame in loving. if your septons say there is, your seven gods must be demons. in the isles we know better. our gods gave us legs to run with, noses to smell with, hands to touch and feel. what mad cruel god would give a man eyes and tell him he must forever keep them shut, and never look at all the beauty in the world? only a monster god, a demon of the darkness. kojja put her hand between sam's legs. the gods gave you this for a reason too, for... what is your westerosi word? fucking, xhondo offered helpfully. yes, for fucking. for the giving of pleasure and the making of children. there is no shame in that. sam backed away from her. i took a vow. i will take no wife, and father no children. i said the words. she knows the words you said. she is a child in some ways, but she is not blind. she knows why you wear the black, why you go to oldtown. she knows she cannot keep you. she wants you for a little while, is all. she lost her father and her husband, her mother and her sisters, her home, her world. all she has is you, and the babe. so you go to her, or swim. sam looked despairingly at the haze that marked the distant shoreline. he could never swim so far, he knew. he went to gilly. what we did... if i could take a wife, i would sooner have you than any princess or highborn maiden, but i can't. i am still a crow. i said the words, gilly. i went with jon into the woods and said the words before a heart tree. the trees watch over us, gilly whispered, brushing the tears from his cheeks. in the forest, they see all... but there are no trees here. only water, sam. only water. the most perilous part of the voyage was the last. the redwyne straits were swarming with longships, as they had been warned in tyrosh. with the main strength of the arbor's fleet on the far side of westeros, the ironmen had sacked ryamsport and taken vinetown and starfish harbor for their own, using them as bases to prey on shipping bound for oldtown. thrice longships were sighted by the crow's nest. two were well astern, however, and the cinnamon wind soon outdistanced them. the third appeared near sunset, to cut them off from whispering sound. when they saw her oars rising and falling, lashing the copper waters white, kojja mo sent her archers to the castles with their great bows of goldenheart that could send a shaft farther and truer than even dornish yew. she waited till the longship came within two hundred yards before she gave the command to loose. sam loosed with them, and this time he thought his arrow reached the ship. one volley was all it took. the longship veered south in search of tamer prey. a deep blue dusk was falling as they entered whispering sound. gilly stood beside the prow with the babe, gazing up at a castle on the cliffs. three towers, sam told her, the seat of house costayne. etched against the evening stars with torchlight flickering from its windows, the castle made a splendid sight, but he was sad to see it. their voyage was almost at its end. it's very tall, said gilly. wait until you see the hightower. dalla's babe began to cry. gilly pulled open her tunic and gave the boy her breast. she smiled as he nursed, and stroked his soft brown hair. she has come to love this one as much as the one she left behind, sam realized. he hoped that the gods would be kind to both of the children. the ironmen had penetrated even to the sheltered waters of whispering sound. come morning, as the cinnamon wind continued on toward oldtown, she began to bump up against corpses drifting down to the sea. some of the bodies carried complements of crows, who rose into the air complaining noisily when the swan ship disturbed their grotesquely swollen rafts. scorched fields and burned villages appeared on the banks, and the shallows and sandbars were strewn with shattered ships. merchanters and fishing boats were the most common, but they saw abandoned longships too, and the wreckage of two big dromonds. one had been burned down to the waterline, whilst the other had a gaping splintered hole in her side where her hull had been rammed. battle here, said xhondo. not so long. who would be so mad as to raid this close to oldtown? xhondo pointed at a half-sunken longship in the shallows. the remnants of a banner drooped from her stern, smoke-stained and ragged. the charge was one sam had never seen before: a red eye with a black pupil, beneath a black iron crown supported by two crows. whose banner is that? sam asked. xhondo only shrugged. the next day was cold and misty. as the cinnamon wind was creeping past another plundered fishing village, a war galley came sliding from the fog, stroking slowly toward them. huntress was the name she bore, behind a figurehead of a slender maiden clad in leaves and brandishing a spear. a heartbeat later, two smaller galleys appeared on either side of her, like a pair of matched greyhounds stalking at their master's heels. to sam's relief, they flew king tommen's stag-and- lion banner above the stepped white tower of oldtown, with its crown of flame. the captain of the huntress was a tall man in a smoke-grey cloak with a border of red satin flames. he brought his galley in alongside the cinnamon wind, raised his oars, and shouted that he was coming aboard. as his crossbowmen and kojja mo's archers eyed each other across the narrow span of water, he crossed over with half a dozen knights, gave quhuru mo a nod, and asked to see his holds. father and daughter conferred briefly, then agreed. my apologies, the captain said when his inspection was complete. it grieves me that honest men must suffer such discourtesy, but sooner that than ironmen in oldtown. only a fortnight ago some of those bloody bastards captured a tyroshi merchantman in the straits. they killed her crew, donned their clothes, and used the dyes they found to color their whiskers half a hundred colors. once inside the walls they meant to set the port ablaze and open a gate from within whilst we fought the fire. might have worked, but they ran afoul of the lady of the tower, and her oarsmaster has a tyroshi wife. when he saw all the green and purple beards he hailed them in the tongue of tyrosh, and not one of them had the words to hail him back. sam was aghast. they cannot mean to raid oldtown. the captain of the huntress gave him a curious look. these are no mere reavers. the ironmen have always raided where they could. they would strike sudden from the sea, carry off some gold and girls, and sail away, but there were seldom more than one or two longships, and never more than half a dozen. hundreds of their ships afflict us now, sailing out of the shield islands and some of the rocks around the arbor. they have taken stonecrab cay, the isle of pigs, and the mermaid's palace, and there are other nests on horseshoe rock and bastard's cradle. without lord redwyne's fleet, we lack the ships to come to grips with them. what is lord hightower doing? sam blurted. my father always said he was as wealthy as the lannisters, and could command thrice as many swords as any of highgarden's other bannermen. more, if he sweeps the cobblestones, the captain said, but swords are no good against the ironmen, unless the men who wield them know how to walk on water. the hightower must be doing something. to be sure. lord leyton's locked atop his tower with the mad maid, consulting books of spells. might be he'll raise an army from the deeps. or not. baelor's building galleys, gunthor has charge of the harbor, garth is training new recruits, and humfrey's gone to lys to hire sellsails. if he can winkle a proper fleet out of his whore of a sister, we can start paying back the ironmen with some of their own coin. till then, the best we can do is guard the sound and wait for the bitch queen in king's landing to let lord paxter off his leash. the bitterness of the captain's final words shocked sam as much as the things he said. if king's landing loses oldtown and the arbor, the whole realm will fall to pieces, he thought as he watched the huntress and her sisters moving off. it made him wonder if even horn hill was truly safe. the tarly lands lay inland amidst thickly wooded foothills, a hundred leagues northeast of oldtown and a long way from any coast. they should be well beyond the reach of ironmen and longships, even with his lord father off fighting in the riverlands and the castle lightly held. the young wolf had no doubt thought the same was true of winterfell until the night that theon turncloak scaled his walls. sam could not bear the thought that he might have brought gilly and her babe all this long way to keep them out of harm, only to abandon them in the midst of war. he wrestled with his doubts through the rest of the voyage, wondering what to do. he could keep gilly with him in oldtown, he supposed. the city's walls were much more formidable than those of his father's castle, and had thousands of men to defend them, as opposed to the handful lord randyll would have left at horn hill when he marched to highgarden to answer his liege lord's summons. if he did, though, he would need to hide her somehow; the citadel did not permit its novices to keep wives or paramours, at least not openly. besides, if i stay with gilly very much longer, how will i ever find the strength to leave her? he had to leave her, or desert. i said the words, sam reminded himself. if i desert, it will mean my head, and how will that help gilly? he considered begging kojja mo and her father to take the wildling girl with them to the summer isles. that path had its perils too, however. when the cinnamon wind left oldtown, she would need to cross the redwyne straits again, and this time she might not be so fortunate. what if the wind died, and the summer islanders found themselves becalmed? if the tales he'd heard were true, gilly would be carried off for a thrall or salt wife, and the babe was like to be chucked into the sea as a nuisance. it has to be horn hill, sam finally decided. once we reach oldtown i'll hire a wagon and some horses and take her there myself. that way he could make certain of the castle and its garrison, and if any part of what he saw or heard gave him pause, he could just turn around and bring gilly back to oldtown. they reached oldtown on a cold damp morning, when the fog was so thick that the beacon of the hightower was the only part of the city to be seen. a boom stretched across the harbor, linking two dozen rotted hulks. just behind it stood a line of warships, anchored by three big dromonds and lord hightower's towering four-decked banner ship, the honor of oldtown. once again the cinnamon wind had to submit to inspection. this time it was lord leyton's son gunthor who came aboard, in a cloth-of-silver cloak and a suit of grey enameled scales. ser gunthor had studied at the citadel for several years and spoke the summer tongue, so he and qurulu mo adjourned to the captain's cabin for a privy conference. sam used the time to explain his plans to gilly. first the citadel, to present jon's letters and tell them of maester aemon's death. i expect the archmaesters will send a cart for his body. then i will arrange for horses and a wagon to take you to my mother at horn hill. i will be back as soon as i can, but it may not be until the morrow. the morrow, she repeated, and gave him a kiss for luck. at length ser gunthor reemerged and gave the signal for the chain to be opened so the cinnamon wind could slip through the boom to dock. sam joined kojja mo and three of her archers near the gangplank as the swan ship was tying up, the summer islanders resplendent in the feathered cloaks they only wore ashore. he felt a shabby thing beside them in his baggy blacks, faded cloak, and salt-stained boots. how long will you remain in port? two days, ten days, who can say? however long it takes to empty our holds and fill them again. kojja grinned. my father must visit the grey maesters as well. he has books to sell. can gilly stay aboard till i return? gilly can stay as long as she likes. she poked sam in the belly with a finger. she does not eat so much as some. i'm not so fat as i was before, sam said defensively. the passage south had seen to that. all those watches, and nothing to eat but fruit and fish. summer islanders loved fruit and fish. sam followed the archers across the plank, but once ashore they parted company and went their separate ways. he hoped he still remembered the way to the citadel. oldtown was a maze, and he had no time for getting lost. the day was damp, so the cobblestones were wet and slippery underfoot, the alleys shrouded in mist and mystery. sam avoided them as best he could and stayed on the river road that wound along beside the honeywine through the heart of the old city. it felt good to have solid ground beneath his feet again instead of a rolling deck, but the walk made him feel uncomfortable all the same. he could feel eyes on him, peering down from balconies and windows, watching him from the darkened doorways. on the cinnamon wind he had known every face. here, everywhere he turned he saw another stranger. even worse was the thought of being seen by someone who knew him. lord randyll tarly was known in oldtown, but little loved. sam did not know which would be worse: to be recognized by one of his lord father's enemies or by one of his friends. he pulled his cloak up and quickened his pace. the gates of the citadel were flanked by a pair of towering green sphinxes with the bodies of lions, the wings of eagles, and the tails of serpents. one had a man's face, one a woman's. just beyond stood scribe's hearth, where oldtowners came in search of acolytes to write their wills and read their letters. haifa dozen bored scribes sat in open stalls, waiting for some custom. at other stalls books were being bought and sold. sam stopped at one that offered maps, and looked over a hand-drawn map of citadel to ascertain the shortest way to the seneschal's court. the path divided where the statue of king daeron the first sat astride his tall stone horse, his sword lifted toward dome. a seagull was perched on the young dragon's head, and two more on the blade. sam took the left fork, which ran beside the river. at the weeping dock, he watched two acolytes help an old man into a boat for the short voyage to the bloody isle. a young mother climbed in after him, a babe not much older than gilly's squalling in her arms. beneath the dock, some cook's boys waded in the shallows, gathering frogs. a stream of pink- cheeked novices hurried by him toward the septry. i should have come here when i was their age, sam thought. if i had run off and taken a false name, i could have disappeared amongst the other novices. father could have pretended that dickon was his only son. i doubt he would even have troubled to search for me, unless i took a mule to ride. then he would have hunted me down, but only for the mule. outside the seneschal's court, the rectors were locking an older novice into the stocks. stealing food from the kitchens, one explained to the acolytes who were waiting to pelt the captive with rotting vegetables. they all gave sam curious looks as he strode past, his black cloak billowing behind him like a sail. beyond the doors he found a hall with a stone floor and high, arched windows. at the far end a man with a pinched face sat upon a raised dais, scratching in a ledger with a quill. though the man was clad in a maester's robe, there was no chain about his neck. sam cleared his throat. good morrow. the man glanced up and did not appear to approve of what he saw. you smell of novice. i hope to be one soon. sam drew out the letters jon snow had given him. i came from the wall with maester aemon, but he died during the voyage. if i could speak with the seneschal... your name? samwell. samwell tarly. the man wrote the name in his ledger and waved his quill at a bench along the wall. sit. you'll be called when wanted. sam took a seat on the bench. others came and went. some delivered messages and took their leave. some spoke to the man on the dais and were sent through the door behind him and up a turnpike stair. some joined sam on the benches, waiting for their names to be called. a few of those who were summoned had come in after him, he was almost certain. after the fourth or fifth time that happened, he rose and crossed the room again. how much longer will it be? the seneschal is an important man. i came all the way from the wall. then you will have no trouble going a bit farther. he waved his quill. to that bench just there, beneath the window. sam returned to the bench. another hour passed. others entered, spoke to the man on the dais, waited a few moments, and were ushered onward. the gatekeeper did not so much as glance at sam in all that time. the fog outside grew thinner as the day wore on, and pale sunlight slanted down through the windows. he found himself watching dust motes dance in the light. a yawn escaped him, then another. he picked at a broken blister on his palm, then leaned his head back and closed his eyes. he must have drowsed. the next he knew, the man behind the dais was calling out a name. sam came lurching to his feet, then sat back down again when he realized it was not his name. you need to slip lorcas a penny, or you'll be waiting here three days, a voice beside him said. what brings the night's watch to the citadel? the speaker was a slim, slight, comely youth, clad in doeskin breeches and a snug green brigandine with iron studs. he had skin the color of a light brown ale and a cap of tight black curls that came to a widow's peak above his big black eyes. the lord commander is restoring the abandoned castles, sam explained. we need more maesters, for the ravens... did you say, a penny? a penny will serve. for a silver stag lorcas will carry you up to the seneschal on his back. he has been fifty years an acolyte. he hates novices, particularly novices of noble birth. how could you tell i was of noble birth? the same way you can tell that i'm half dornish. the statement was delivered with a smile, in a soft dornish drawl. sam fumbled for a penny. are you a novice? an acolyte. alleras, by some called sphinx. the name gave sam a jolt. the sphinx is the riddle, not the riddler, he blurted. do you know what that means? no. is it a riddle? i wish i knew. i'm samwell tarly. sam. well met. and what business does samwell tarly have with archmaester theobald? is he the seneschal? said sam, confused. maester aemon said his name was norren. not for the past two turns. there is a new one every year. they fill the office by lot from amongst the archmaesters, most of whom regard it as a thankless task that takes them away from their true work. this year the black stone was drawn by archmaester walgrave, but walgrave's wits are prone to wander, so theobald stepped up and said he'd serve his term. he's a gruff man, but a good one. did you say maester aemon? aye. aemon targaryen? once. most just called him maester aemon. he died during our voyage south. how is it that you know of him? how not? he was more than just the oldest living maester. he was the oldest man in westeros, and lived through more history than archmaester perestan has ever learned. he could have told us much and more about his father's reign, and his uncle's. how old was he, do you know? one hundred and two. what was he doing at sea, at his age? sam chewed on the question for a moment, wondering how much he ought to say. the sphinx is the riddle, not the riddler. could maester aemon have meant this sphinx? it seemed unlikely. lord commander snow sent him away to save his life, he began, hesitantly. he spoke awkwardly of king stannis and melisandre of asshai, intending to stop at that, but one thing led to another and he found himself speaking of mance rayder and his wildlings, king's blood and dragons, and before he knew what was happening, all the rest came spilling out; the wights at the fist of first men, the other on his dead horse, the murder of the old bear at craster's keep, gilly and their flight, whitetree and small paul, coldhands and the ravens, jon's becoming lord commander, the blackbird, dareon, braavos, the dragons xhondo saw in qarth, the cinnamon wind and all that maester aemon whispered toward the end. he held back only the secrets that he was sworn to keep, about bran stark and his companions and the babes jon snow had swapped. daenerys is the only hope, he concluded. aemon said the citadel must send her a maester at once, to bring her home to westeros before it is too late. alleras listened intently. he blinked from time to time, but he never laughed and never interrupted. when sam was done he touched him lightly on the forearm with a slim brown hand and said, save your penny, sam. theobald will not believe half of that, but there are those who might. will you come with me? where? to speak with an archmaester. you must tell them, sam, maester aemon had said. you must tell the archmaesters. very well. he could always return to the seneschal on the morrow, with a penny in his hand. how far do we have to go? not far. the isle of ravens. they did not need a boat to reach the isle of ravens; a weathered wooden drawbridge linked it to the eastern bank. the ravenry is the oldest building at the citadel, alleras told him, as they crossed over the slow-flowing waters of the honeywine. in the age of heroes it was supposedly the stronghold of a pirate lord who sat here robbing ships as they came down the river. moss and creeping vines covered the walls, sam saw, and ravens walked its battlements in place of archers. the drawbridge had not been raised in living memory. it was cool and dim inside the castle walls. an ancient weirwood filled the yard, as it had since these stones had first been raised. the carved face on its trunk was grown over by the same purple moss that hung heavy from the tree's pale limbs. half of the branches seemed dead, but elsewhere a few red leaves still rustled, and it was there the ravens liked to perch. the tree was full of them, and there were more in the arched windows overhead, all around the yard. the ground was speckled by their droppings. as they crossed the yard, one flapped overhead and he heard the others quorking to each other. archmaester walgrave has his chambers in the west tower, below the white rookery, alleras told him. the white ravens and the black ones quarrel like dornishmen and marchers, so they keep them apart. will archmaester walgrave understand what i am telling him? wondered sam. you said his wits were prone to wander. he has good days and bad ones, said alleras, but it is not walgrave you're going to see. he opened the door to the north tower and began to climb. sam clambered up the steps behind him. there were flutterings and mutterings from above, and here and there an angry scream, as the ravens complained of being woken. at the top of the steps, a pale blond youth about sam's age sat outside a door of oak and iron, staring intently into a candle flame with his right eye. his left was hidden beneath a fall of ash blond hair. what are you looking for? alleras asked him. your destiny? your death? the blond youth turned from the candle, blinking. naked women, he said. who's this now? samwell. a new novice, come to see the mage. the citadel is not what it was, complained the blond. they will take anything these days. dusky dogs and dornishmen, pig boys, cripples, cretins, and now a black-clad whale. and here i thought leviathans were grey. a half cape striped in green and gold draped one shoulder. he was very handsome, though his eyes were sly and his mouth cruel. sam knew him. leo tyrell. saying the name made him feel as if he were still a boy of seven, about to wet his smallclothes. i am sam, from horn hill. lord randyll tarly's son. truly? leo gave him another look. i suppose you are. your father told us all that you were dead. or was it only that he wished you were? he grinned. are you still a craven? no, lied sam. jon had made it a command. i went beyond the wall and fought in battles. they call me sam the slayer. he did not know why he said it. the words just tumbled out. leo laughed, but before he could reply the door behind him opened. get in here, slayer, growled the man in the doorway. and you, sphinx. now. sam, said alleras, this is archmaester marwyn. marwyn wore a chain of many metals around his bull's neck. save for that, he looked more like a dockside thug than a maester. his head was too big for his body, and the way it thrust forward from his shoulders, together with that slab of jaw, made him look as if he were about to tear off someone's head. though short and squat, he was heavy in the chest and shoulders, with a round, rock-hard ale belly straining at the laces of the leather jerkin he wore in place of robes. bristly white hair sprouted from his ears and nostrils. his brow beetled, his nose had been broken more than once, and sour leaf had stained his teeth a mottled red. he had the biggest hands that sam had ever seen. when sam hesitated, one of those hands grabbed him by the arm and yanked him through the door. the room beyond was large and round. books and scrolls were everywhere, strewn across the tables and stacked up on the floor in piles four feet high. faded tapestries and ragged maps covered the stone walls. a fire was burning in the hearth, beneath a copper kettle. whatever was inside of it smelled burned. aside from that, the only light came from a tall black candle in the center of the room. the candle was unpleasantly bright. there was something queer about it. the flame did not flicker, even when archmaester marwyn closed the door so hard that papers blew off a nearby table. the light did something strange to colors too. whites were bright as fresh-fallen snow, yellow shone like gold, reds turned to flame, but the shadows were so black they looked like holes in the world. sam found himself staring. the candle itself was three feet tall and slender as a sword, ridged and twisted, glittering black. is that... ? ... obsidian, said the other man in the room, a pale, fleshy, pasty-faced young fellow with round shoulders, soft hands, close-set eyes, and food stains on his robes. call it dragonglass. archmaester marwyn glanced at the candle for a moment. it burns but is not consumed. what feeds the flame? asked sam. what feeds a dragon's fire? marwyn seated himself upon a stool. all valyrian sorcery was rooted in blood or fire. the sorcerers of the freehold could see across mountains, seas, and deserts with one of these glass candles. they could enter a man's dreams and give him visions, and speak to one another half a world apart, seated before their candles. do you think that might be useful, slayer? we would have no more need of ravens. only after battles. the archmaester peeled a sourleaf off a bale, shoved it in his mouth, and began to chew it. tell me all you told our dornish sphinx. i know much of it and more, but some small parts may have escaped my notice. he was not a man to be refused. sam hesitated a moment, then told his tale again as marywn, alleras, and the other novice listened. maester aemon believed that daenerys targaryen was the fulfillment of a prophecy... her, not stannis, nor prince rhaegar, nor the princeling whose head was dashed against the wall. born amidst salt and smoke, beneath a bleeding star. i know the prophecy. marwyn turned his head and spat a gob of red phlegm onto the floor. not that i would trust it. gorghan of old ghis once wrote that a prophecy is like a treacherous woman. she takes your member in her mouth, and you moan with the pleasure of it and think, how sweet, how fine, how good this is... and then her teeth snap shut and your moans turn to screams. that is the nature of prophecy, said gorghan. prophecy will bite your prick off every time. he chewed a bit. still... alleras stepped up next to sam. aemon would have gone to her if he had the strength. he wanted us to send a maester to her, to counsel her and protect her and fetch her safely home. did he? archmaester marwyn shrugged. perhaps it's good that he died before he got to oldtown. elsewise the grey sheep might have had to kill him, and that would have made the poor old dears wring their wrinkled hands. kill him? sam said, shocked. why? if i tell you, they may need to kill you too. marywn smiled a ghastly smile, the juice of the sourleaf running red between his teeth. who do you think killed all the dragons the last time around? gallant dragonslayers armed with swords? he spat. the world the citadel is building has no place in it for sorcery or prophecy or glass candles, much less for dragons. ask yourself why aemon targaryen was allowed to waste his life upon the wall, when by rights he should have been raised to archmaester. his blood was why. he could not be trusted. no more than i can. what will you do? asked alleras, the sphinx. get myself to slaver's bay, in aemon's place. the swan ship that delivered slayer should serve my needs well enough. the grey sheep will send their man on a galley, i don't doubt. with fair winds i should reach her first. marwyn glanced at sam again, and frowned. you... you should stay and forge your chain. if i were you, i would do it quickly. a time will come when you'll be needed on the wall. he turned to the pasty-faced novice. find slayer a dry cell. he'll sleep here, and help you tend the ravens. b-b-but, sam sputtered, the other archmaesters... the seneschal... what should i tell them? tell them how wise and good they are. tell them that aemon commanded you to put yourself into their hands. tell them that you have always dreamed that one day you might be allowed to wear the chain and serve the greater good, that service is the highest honor, and obedience the highest virtue. but say nothing of prophecies or dragons, unless you fancy poison in your porridge. marwyn snatched a stained leather cloak off a peg near the door and tied it tight. sphinx, look after this one. i will, alleras answered, but the archmaester was already gone. they heard his boots stomping down the steps. where has he gone? asked sam, bewildered. to the docks. the mage is not a man who believes in wasting time. alleras smiled. i have a confession. ours was no chance encounter, sam. the mage sent me to snatch you up before you spoke to theobald. he knew that you were coming. how? alleras nodded at the glass candle. sam stared at the strange pale flame for a moment, then blinked and looked away. outside the window it was growing dark. there's an empty sleeping cell under mine in the west tower, with steps that lead right up to walgrave's chambers, said the pasty-faced youth. if you don't mind the ravens quorking, there's a good view of the honeywine. will that serve? i suppose. he had to sleep somewhere. i will bring you some woolen coverlets. stone walls turn cold at night, even here. my thanks. there was something about the pale, soft youth that he misliked, but he did not want to seem discourteous, so he added, my name's not slayer, truly. i'm sam. samwell tarly. i'm pate, the other said, like the pig boy.