she awoke all at once, every nerve atingle. for a moment she did not remember where she was. she had dreamt that she was little, still sharing a bedchamber with her sister arya. but it was her maid she heard tossing in sleep, not her sister, and this was not winterfell, but the eyrie. and i am alayne stone, a bastard girl. the room was cold and black, though she was warm beneath the blankets. dawn had not yet come. sometimes she dreamed of ser ilyn payne and woke with her heart thumping, but this dream had not been like that. home. it was a dream of home. the eyrie was no home. it was no bigger than maegor's holdfast, and outside its sheer white walls was only the mountain and the long treacherous descent past sky and snow and stone to the gates of the moon on the valley floor. there was no place to go and little to do. the older servants said these halls rang with laughter when her father and robert baratheon had been jon arryn's wards, but those days were many years gone. her aunt kept a small household, and seldom permitted any guests to ascend past the gates of the moon. aside from her aged maid, sansa's only companion was the lord robert, eight going on three. and marillion. there is always marillion. when he played for them at supper, the young singer often seemed to be singing directly at her. her aunt was far from pleased. lady lysa doted on marillion, and had banished two serving girls and even a page for telling lies about him. lysa was as lonely as she was. her new husband seemed to spend more time at the foot of the mountain than he did atop it. he was gone now, had been gone the past four days, meeting with the corbrays. from bits and pieces of overheard conversations sansa knew that jon arryn's bannermen resented lysa's marriage and begrudged petyr his authority as lord protector of the vale. the senior branch of house royce was close to open revolt over her aunt's failure to aid robb in his war, and the waynwoods, redforts, belmores, and templetons were giving them every support. the mountain clans were being troublesome as well, and old lord hunter had died so suddenly that his two younger sons were accusing their elder brother of having murdered him. the vale of arryn might have been spared the worst of the war, but it was hardly the idyllic place that lady lysa had made it out to be. i am not going back to sleep, sansa realized. my head is all a tumult. she pushed her pillow away reluctantly, threw back the blankets, went to her window, and opened the shutters. snow was falling on the eyrie. outside the flakes drifted down as soft and silent as memory. was this what woke me? already the snowfall lay thick upon the garden below, blanketing the grass, dusting the shrubs and statues with white and weighing down the branches of the trees. the sight took sansa back to cold nights long ago, in the long summer of her childhood. she had last seen snow the day she'd left winterfell. that was a lighter fall than this, she remembered. robb had melting flakes in his hair when he hugged me, and the snowball arya tried to make kept coming apart in her hands. it hurt to remember how happy she had been that morning. hullen had helped her mount, and she'd ridden out with the snowflakes swirling around her, off to see the great wide world. i thought my song was beginning that day, but it was almost done. sansa left the shutters open as she dressed. it would be cold, she knew, though the eyrie's towers encircled the garden and protected it from the worst of the mountain winds. she donned silken smallclothes and a linen shift, and over that a warm dress of blue lambswool. two pairs of hose for her legs, boots that laced up to her knees, heavy leather gloves, and finally a hooded cloak of soft white fox fur. her maid rolled herself more tightly in her blanket as the snow began to drift in the window. sansa eased open the door, and made her way down the winding stair. when she opened the door to the garden, it was so lovely that she held her breath, unwilling to disturb such perfect beauty. the snow drifted down and down, all in ghostly silence, and lay thick and unbroken on the ground. all color had fled the world outside. it was a place of whites and blacks and greys. white towers and white snow and white statues, black shadows and black trees, the dark grey sky above. a pure world, sansa thought. i do not belong here. yet she stepped out all the same. her boots tore ankle-deep holes into the smooth white surface of the snow, yet made no sound. sansa drifted past frosted shrubs and thin dark trees, and wondered if she were still dreaming. drifting snowflakes brushed her face as light as lover's kisses, and melted on her cheeks. at the center of the garden, beside the statue of the weeping woman that lay broken and half-buried on the ground, she turned her face up to the sky and closed her eyes. she could feel the snow on her lashes, taste it on her lips. it was the taste of winterfell. the taste of innocence. the taste of dreams. when sansa opened her eyes again, she was on her knees. she did not remember falling, it seemed to her that the sky was a lighter shade of grey. dawn, she thought. another day. another new day. it was the old days she hungered for. prayed for. but who could she pray to? the garden had been meant for a godswood once, she knew, but the soil was too thin and stony for a weirwood to take root. a godswood without gods, as empty as me. she scooped up a handful of snow and squeezed it between her fingers. heavy and wet, the snow packed easily. sansa began to make snowballs, shaping and smoothing them until they were round and white and perfect. she remembered a summer's snow in winterfell when arya and bran had ambushed her as she emerged from the keep one morning. they'd each had a dozen snowballs to hand, and she'd had none. bran had been perched on the roof of the covered bridge, out of reach, but sansa had chased arya through the stables and around the kitchen until both of them were breathless. she might even have caught her, but she'd slipped on some ice. her sister came back to see if she was hurt. when she said she wasn't, arya hit her in the face with another snowball, but sansa grabbed her leg and pulled her down and was rubbing snow in her hair when jory came along and pulled them apart, laughing. what do i want with snowballs? she looked at her sad little arsenal. there's no one to throw them at. she let the one she was making drop from her hand. i could build a snow knight instead, she thought. or even... she pushed two of her snowballs together, added a third, packed more snow in around them, and patted the whole thing into the shape of a cylinder. when it was done, she stood it on end and used the tip of her little finger to poke holes in it for windows. the crenellations around the top took a little more care, but when they were done she had a tower. i need some walls now, sansa thought, and then a keep. she set to work. the snow fell and the castle rose. two walls ankle-high, the inner taller than the outer. towers and turrets, keeps and stairs, a round kitchen, a square armory, the stables along the inside of the west wall. it was only a castle when she began, but before very long sansa knew it was winterfell. she found twigs and fallen branches beneath the snow and broke off the ends to make the trees for the godswood. for the gravestones in the lichyard she used bits of bark. soon her gloves and her boots were crusty white, her hands were tingling, and her feet were soaked and cold, but she did not care. the castle was all that mattered. some things were hard to remember, but most came back to her easily, as if she had been there only yesterday. the library tower, with the steep stonework stair twisting about its exterior. the gatehouse, two huge bulwarks, the arched gate between them, crenellations all along the top... and all the while the snow kept falling, piling up in drifts around her buildings as fast as she raised them. she was patting down the pitched roof of the great hall when she heard a voice, and looked up to see her maid calling from her window. was my lady well? did she wish to break her fast? sansa shook her head, and went back to shaping snow, adding a chimney to one end of the great hall, where the hearth would stand inside. dawn stole into her garden like a thief. the grey of the sky grew lighter still, and the trees and shrubs turned a dark green beneath their stoles of snow. a few servants came out and watched her for a time, but she paid them no mind and they soon went back inside where it was warmer. sansa saw lady lysa gazing down from her balcony, wrapped up in a blue velvet robe trimmed with fox fur, but when she looked again her aunt was gone. maester colemon popped out of the rookery and peered down for a while, skinny and shivering but curious. her bridges kept falling down. there was a covered bridge between the armory and the main keep, and another that went from the fourth floor of the bell tower to the second floor of the rookery, but no matter how carefully she shaped them, they would not hold together. the third time one collapsed on her, she cursed aloud and sat back in helpless frustration. pack the snow around a stick, sansa. she did not know how long he had been watching her, or when he had returned from the vale. a stick? she asked. that will give it strength enough to stand, i'd think, petyr said. may i come into your castle, my lady? sansa was wary. don't break it. be... ... gentle? he smiled. winterfell has withstood fiercer enemies than me. it is winterfell, is it not? yes, sansa admitted. he walked along outside the walls. i used to dream of it, in those years after cat went north with eddard stark. in my dreams it was ever a dark place, and cold. no. it was always warm, even when it snowed. water from the hot springs is piped through the walls to warm them, and inside the glass gardens it was always like the hottest day of summer. she stood, towering over the great white castle. i can't think how to do the glass roof over the gardens. littlefinger stroked his chin, where his beard had been before lysa had asked him to shave it off. the glass was locked in frames, no? twigs are your answer. peel them and cross them and use bark to tie them together into frames. i'll show you. he moved through the garden, gathering up twigs and sticks and shaking the snow from them. when he had enough, he stepped over both walls with a single long stride and squatted on his heels in the middle of the yard. sansa came closer to watch what he was doing. his hands were deft and sure, and before long he had a crisscrossing latticework of twigs, very like the one that roofed the glass gardens of winterfell. we will need to imagine the glass, to be sure, he said when he gave it to her. this is just right, she said. he touched her face. and so is that. sansa did not understand. and so is what? your smile, my lady. shall i make another for you? if you would. nothing could please me more. she raised the walls of the glass gardens while littlefinger roofed them over, and when they were done with that he helped her extend the walls and build the guardshall. when she used sticks for the covered bridges, they stood, just as he had said they would. the first keep was simple enough, an old round drum tower, but sansa was stymied again when it came to putting the gargoyles around the top. again he had the answer. it's been snowing on your castle, my lady, he pointed out. what do the gargoyles look like when they're covered with snow? sansa closed her eyes to see them in memory. they're just white lumps. well, then. gargoyles are hard, but white lumps should be easy. and they were. the broken tower was easier still. they made a tall tower together, kneeling side by side to roll it smooth, and when they'd raised it sansa stuck her fingers through the top, grabbed a handful of snow, and flung it full in his face. petyr yelped, as the snow slid down under his collar. that was unchivalrously done, my lady. as was bringing me here, when you swore to take me home. she wondered where this courage had come from, to speak to him so frankly. from winterfell, she thought. i am stronger within the walls of winterfell. his face grew serious. yes, i played you false in that... and in one other thing as well. sansa' s stomach was aflutter. what other thing? i told you that nothing could please me more than to help you with your castle. i fear that was a lie as well. something else would please me more. he stepped closer. this. sansa tried to step back, but he pulled her into his arms and suddenly he was kissing her. feebly, she tried to squirm, but only succeeded in pressing herself more tightly against him. his mouth was on hers, swallowing her words. he tasted of mint. for half a heartbeat she yielded to his kiss... before she turned her face away and wrenched free. what are you doing? petyr straightened his cloak. kissing a snow maid. you're supposed to kiss her. sansa glanced up at lysa's balcony, but it was empty now. your lady wife. i do. lysa has no cause for complaint. he smiled. i wish you could see yourself, my lady. you are so beautiful. you're crusted over with snow like some little bear cub, but your face is flushed and you can scarcely breathe. how long have you been out here? you must be very cold. let me warm you, sansa. take off those gloves, give me your hands. i won't. he sounded almost like marillion, the night he'd gotten so drunk at the wedding. only this time lothor brune would not appear to save her; ser lothor was petyr's man. you shouldn't kiss me. i might have been your own daughter... might have been, he admitted, with a rueful smile. but you're not, are you? you are eddard stark's daughter, and cat's. but i think you might be even more beautiful than your mother was, when she was your age. petyr, please. her voice sounded so weak. please. a castle! the voice was loud, shrill, and childish. littleflnger turned away from her. lord robert. he sketched a bow. should you be out in the snow without your gloves? did you make the snow castle, lord littleflnger? alayne did most of it, my lord. sansa said, it's meant to be winterfell. winterfell? robert was small for eight, a stick of a boy with splotchy skin and eyes that were always runny. under one arm he clutched the threadbare cloth doll he carried everywhere. winterfell is the seat of house stark, sansa told her husband-to-be. the great castle of the north. it's not so great. the boy knelt before the gatehouse. look, here comes a giant to knock it down. he stood his doll in the snow and moved it jerkily. tromp tromp i'm a giant, i'm a giant, he chanted. ho ho ho, open yourgates or i'll mash them and smash them. swinging the doll by the legs, he knocked the top off one gatehouse tower and then the other. it was more than sansa could stand. robert, stop that. instead he swung the doll again, and a foot of wall exploded. she grabbed for his hand but she caught the doll instead. there was a loud ripping sound as the thin cloth tore. suddenly she had the doll's head, robert had the legs and body, and the rag-and-sawdust stuffing was spilling in the snow. lord robert's mouth trembled. you killed him, he wailed. then he began to shake. it started with no more than a little shivering, but within a few short heartbeats he had collapsed across the castle, his limbs flailing about violently. white towers and snowy bridges shattered and fell on all sides. sansa stood horrified, but petyr baelish seized her cousin's wrists and shouted for the maester. guards and serving girls arrived within instants to help restrain the boy, maester colemon a short time later. robert arryn's shaking sickness was nothing new to the people of the eyrie, and lady lysa had trained them all to come rushing at the boy's first cry. the maester held the little lord's head and gave him half a cup of dreamwine, murmuring soothing words. slowly the violence of the fit seemed to ebb away, till nothing remained but a small shaking of the hands. help him to my chambers, colemon told the guards. a leeching will help calm him. it was my fault. sansa showed them the doll's head. i ripped his doll in two. i never meant to, but... his lordship was destroying the castle, said petyr. a giant, the boy whispered, weeping. it wasn't me, it was a giant hurt the castle. she killed him! i hate her! she's a bastard and i hate her! i don't want to be leeched! my lord, your blood needs thinning, said maester colemon. it is the bad blood that makes you angry, and the rage that brings on the shaking. come now. they led the boy away. my lord husband, sansa thought, as she contemplated the ruins of winterfell. the snow had stopped, and it was colder than before. she wondered if lord robert would shake all through their wedding. at least joffrey was sound of body. a mad rage seized hold of her. she picked up a broken branch and smashed the torn doll's head down on top of it, then pushed it down atop the shattered gatehouse of her snow castle. the servants looked aghast, but when littlefinger saw what she'd done he laughed. if the tales be true, that's not the first giant to end up with his head on winterfell's walls. those are only stories, she said, and left him there. back in her bedchamber, sansa took off her cloak and her wet boots and sat beside the fire. she had no doubt that she would be made to answer for lord robert's fit. perhaps lady lysa will send me away. her aunt was quick to banish anyone who displeased her, and nothing displeased her quite so much as people she suspected of mistreating her son. sansa would have welcomed banishment. the gates of the moon was much larger than the eyrie, and livelier as well. lord nestor royce seemed gruff and stern, but his daughter myranda kept his castle for him, and everyone said how frolicsome she was. even sansa's supposed bastardy might not count too much against her below. one of king robert's baseborn daughters was in service to lord nestor, and she and the lady myranda were said to be fast friends, as close as sisters. i will tell my aunt that i don't want to marry robert. not even the high septon himself could declare a woman married if she refused to say the vows. she wasn't a beggar, no matter what her aunt said. she was thirteen, a woman flowered and wed, the heir to winterfell. sansa felt sorry for her little cousin sometimes, but she could not imagine ever wanting to be his wife. i would sooner be married to tyrion again. if lady lysa knew that, surely she'd send her away... away from robert's pouts and shakes and runny eyes, away from marillion's lingering looks, away from petyr's kisses. i will tell her. i will! it was late that afternoon when lady lysa summoned her. sansa had been marshaling her courage all day, but no sooner did marillion appear at her door than all her doubts returned. lady lysa requires your presence in the high hall. the singer's eyes undressed her as he spoke, but she was used to that. marillion was comely, there was no denying it; boyish and slender, with smooth skin, sandy hair, a charming smile. but he had made himself well hated in the vale, by everyone but her aunt and little lord robert. to hear the servants talk, sansa was not the first maid to suffer his advances, and the others had not had lothor brune to defend them. but lady lysa would hear no complaints against him. since coming to the eyrie, the singer had become her favorite. he sang lord robert to sleep every night, and tweaked the noses of lady lysa's suitors with verses that made mock of their foibles. her aunt had showered him with gold and gifts; costly clothes, a gold arm ring, a belt studded with moonstones, a fine horse. she had even given him her late husband's favorite falcon. it all served to make marillion unfailingly courteous in lady lysa's presence, and unfailingly arrogant outside it. thank you, sansa told him stiffly. i know the way. he would not leave. my lady said to bring you. bring me? she did not like the sound of that. are you a guardsman now? little finger had dismissed the eyrie's captain of guards and put ser lothor brune in his place. do you require guarding? marillion said lightly. i am composing a new song, you should know. a song so sweet and sad it will melt even your frozen heart.'the roadside rose' i mean to call it. about a baseborn girl so beautiful she bewitched every man who laid eyes upon her. i am a stark of winterfell, she longed to tell him. instead she nodded, and let him escort her down the tower steps and along a bridge. the high hall had been closed as long as she'd been at the eyrie. sansa wondered why her aunt had opened it. normally she preferred the comfort of her solar, or the cozy warmth of lord arryn's audience chamber with its view of the waterfall. two guards in sky-blue cloaks flanked the carved wooden doors of the high hall, spears in hand. no one is to enter so long as alayne is with lady lysa, marillion told them. aye. the men let them pass, then crossed their spears. marillion swung the doors shut and barred them with a third spear, longer and thicker than those the guards had borne. sansa felt a prickle of unease. why did you do that? my lady awaits you. she looked about uncertainly. lady lysa sat on the dais in a highbacked chair of carved weirwood, alone. to her right was a second chair, taller than her own, with a stack of blue cushions piled on the seat, but lord robert was not in it. sansa hoped he'd recovered. marillion was not like to tell her, though. sansa walked down the blue silk carpet between rows of fluted pillars slim as lances. the floors and walls of the high hall were made of milk-white marble veined with blue. shafts of pale daylight slanted down through narrow arched windows along the eastern wall. between the windows were torches, mounted in high iron sconces, but none of them was lit. her footsteps fell softly on the carpet. outside the wind blew cold and lonely. amidst so much white marble even the sunlight looked chilly, somehow... though not half so chilly as her aunt. lady lysa had dressed in a gown of cream-colored velvet and a necklace of sapphires and moonstones. her auburn hair had been done up in a thick braid, and fell across one shoulder. she sat in the high seat watching her niece approach, her face red and puffy beneath the paint and powder. on the wall behind her hung a huge banner, the moon-and- falcon of house arryn in cream and blue. sansa stopped before the dais, and curtsied. my lady. you sent for me. she could still hear the sound of the wind, and the soft chords marillion was playing at the foot of the hall. i saw what you did, the lady lysa said. sansa smoothed down the folds of her skirt. i trust lord robert is better? i never meant to rip his doll. he was smashing my snow castle, i only... will you play the coy deceiver with me? her aunt said. i was not speaking of robert's doll. i saw you kissing him. the high hall seemed to grow a little colder. the walls and floor and columns might have turned to ice. he kissed me. lysa's nostrils flared. and why would he do that? he has a wife who loves him. a woman grown, not a little girl. he has no need for the likes of you. confess, child. you threw yourself at him. that was the way of it. sansa took a step backward. that's not true. where are you going? are you afraid? such wanton behavior must be punished, but i will not be hard on you. we keep a whipping boy for robert, as is the custom in the free cities. his health is too delicate for him to bear the rod himself. i shall find some common girl to take your whipping, but first you must own up to what you've done. i cannot abide a liar, alayne. i was building a snow castle, sansa said. lord petyr was helping me, and then he kissed me. that's what you saw. have you no honor? her aunt said sharply. or do you take me for a fool? you do, don't you? you take me for a fool. yes, i see that now. i am not a fool. you think you can have any man you want because you're young and beautiful. don't think i haven't seen the looks you give marillion. i know everything that happens in the eyrie, little lady. and i have known your like before, too. but you are mistaken if you think big eyes and strumpet's smiles will win you petyr. he is mine. she rose to her feet. they all tried to take him from me. my lord father, my husband, your mother... catelyn most of all. she liked to kiss my petyr too, oh yes she did. sansa retreated another step. my mother? yes, your mother, your precious mother, my own sweet sister catelyn. don't you think to play the innocent with me, you vile little liar. all those years in riverrun, she played with petyr as if he were her little toy. she teased him with smiles and soft words and wanton looks, and made his nights a torment. no. my mother is dead, she wanted to shriek. she was your own sister, and she's dead. she didn't. she wouldn't. how would you know? were you there? lysa descended from the high seat, her skirts swirling. did you come with lord bracken and lord blackwood, the time they visited to lay their feud before my father? lord bracken's singer played for us, and catelyn danced six dances with petyr that night, six, i counted. when the lords began to argue my father took them up to his audience chamber, so there was no one to stop us drinking. edmure got drunk, young as he was... and petyr tried to kiss your mother, only she pushed him away. she laughed at him. he looked so wounded i thought my heart would burst, and afterward he drank until he passed out at the table. uncle brynden carried him up to bed before my father could find him like that. but you remember none of it, do you? she looked down angrily. do you? is she drunk, or mad? i was not born, my lady. you were not born. but i was, so do not presume to tell what is true. i know what is true. you kissed him! he kissed me, sansa insisted again. i never wanted.- be quiet, i haven't given you leave to speak. you enticed him, just as your mother did that night in riverrun, with her smiles and her dancing. you think i could forget? that was the night i stole up to his bed to give him comfort. i bled, but it was the sweetest hurt. he told me he loved me then, but he called me cat, just before he fell back to sleep. even so, i stayed with him until the sky began to lighten. your mother did not deserve him. she would not even give him her favor to wear when he fought brandon stark. i would have given him my favor. i gave him everything. he is mine now. not catelyn's and not yours. all of sansa's resolve had withered in the face of her aunt's onslaught. lysa arryn was frightening her as much as queen cersei ever had. he's yours, my lady, she said, trying to sound meek and contrite. may i have your leave to go? you may not. her aunt's breath smelled of wine. if you were anyone else, i would banish you. send you down to lord nestor at the gates of the moon, or back to the fingers. how would you like to spend your life on that bleak shore, surrounded by slatterns and sheep pellets? that was what my father meant for petyr. everyone thought it was because of that stupid duel with brandon stark, but that wasn't so. father said i ought to thank the gods that so great a lord as jon arryn was willing to take me soiled, but i knew it was only for the swords. i had to marry jon, or my father would have turned me out as he did his brother, but it was petyr i was meant for. i am telling you all this so you will understand how much we love each other, how long we have suffered and dreamed of one another. we made a baby together, a precious little baby. lysa put her hands flat against her belly, as if the child was still there. when they stole him from me, i made a promise to myself that i would never let it happen again. jon wished to send my sweet robert to dragonstone, and that sot of a king would have given him to cersei lannister, but i never let them... no more than i'll let you steal my petyr little finger. do you hear me, alayne or sansa or whatever you call yourself? do you hear what i am telling you? yes. i swear, i won't ever kiss him again, or... or entice him. sansa thought that was what her aunt wanted to hear. so you admit it now? it was you, just as i thought. you are as wanton as your mother. lysa grabbed her by the wrist. come with me now. there is something i want to show you. you're hurting me. sansa squirmed. please, aunt lysa, i haven't done anything. i swear it. her aunt ignored her protests. marillion! she shouted. i need you, marillion! i need you! the singer had remained discreetly in the rear of the hall, but at lady arryn's shout he came at once. my lady? play us a song. play'the false and the fair.' marillions fingers brushed the strings. the lord he came a-riding upon a rainy day, hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny- hey... lady lysa pulled at sansa' s arm. it was either walk or be dragged, so she chose to walk, halfway down the hall and between a pair of pillars, to a white weirwood door set in the marble wall. the door was firmly closed, with three heavy bronze bars to hold it in place, but sansa could hear the wind outside worrying at its edges. when she saw the crescent moon carved in the wood, she planted her feet. the moon door. she tried to yank free. why are you showing me the moon door? you squeak like a mouse now, but you were bold enough in the garden, weren't you? you were bold enough in the snow. the lady sat a-sewing upon a rainy day, marillion sang. heynonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny- hey. open the door, lysa commanded. open it, i say. you will do it, or i'll send for my guards. she shoved sansa forward. your mother was brave, at least. lift off the bars. if i do as she says, she will let me go. sansa grabbed one of the bronze bars, yanked it loose, and tossed it down. the second bar clattered to the marble, then the third. she had barely touched the latch when the heavy wooden door flew inward and slammed back against the wall with a bang. snow had piled up around the frame, and it all came blowing in at them, borne on a blast of cold air that left sansa shivering. she tried to step backward, but her aunt was behind her. lysa seized her by the wrist and put her other hand between her shoulder blades, propelling her forcefully toward the open door. beyond was white sky, falling snow, and nothing else. look down, said lady lysa. look down. she tried to wrench free, but her aunt's fingers were digging into her arm like claws. lysa gave her another shove, and sansa shrieked. her left foot broke through a crust of snow and knocked it loose. there was nothing in front of her but empty air, and a waycastle six hundred feet below clinging to the side of the mountain. don't! sansa screamed. you're scaring me! behind her, marillion was still playing his woodharp and singing, hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny- hey. do you still want my leave to go? do you? no. sansa planted her feet and tried to squirm backward, but her aunt did not budge. not this way. please... she put a hand up, her fingers scrabbling at the doorframe, but she could not get a grip, and her feet were sliding on the wet marble floor. lady lysa pressed her forward inexorably. her aunt outweighed her by three stone. the lady lay a-kissing, upon a mound of hay, marillion was singing. sansa twisted sideways, hysterical with fear, and one foot slipped out over the void. she screamed. hey-nonny, hey-nonny, hey-nonny-hey. the wind flapped her skirts up and bit at her bare legs with cold teeth. she could feel snowflakes melting on her cheeks. sansa flailed, found lysa's thick auburn braid, and clutched it tight. my hair! her aunt shrieked. let go of my hair! she was shaking, sobbing. they teetered on the edge. far off, she heard the guards pounding on the door with their spears, demanding to be let in. marillion broke off his song. lysa! what's the meaning of this? the shout cut through the sobs and heavy breathing. footsteps echoed down the high hall. get back from there! lysa, what are you doing? the guards were still beating at the door; little finger had come in the back way, through the lords' entrance behind the dais. as lysa turned, her grip loosened enough for sansa to rip free. she stumbled to her knees, where petyr baelish saw her. he stopped suddenly. alayne. what is the trouble here? her. lady lysa grabbed a handful of sansa's hair. she's the trouble. she kissed you. tell her, sansa begged. tell her we were just building a castle... be quiet! her aunt screamed. i never gave you leave to speak. no one cares about your castle. she's a child, lysa. cat's daughter. what did you think you were doing? i was going to marry her to robert! she has no gratitude. no... no decency. you are not hers to kiss. not hers! i was teaching her a lesson, that was all. i see. he stroked his chin. i think she understands now. isn't that so, alayne? yes, sobbed sansa. i understand. i don't want her here. her aunt's eyes were shiny with tears. why did you bring her to the vale, petyr? this isn't her place. she doesn't belong here. we'll send her away, then. back to king's landing, if you like. he took a step toward them. let her up, now. let her away from the door. no! lysa gave sansa's head another wrench. snow eddied around them, making their skirts snap noisily. you can't want her. you can't. she's a stupid empty-headed little girl. she doesn't love you the way i have. i've always loved you. i've proved it, haven't i? tears ran down her aunt's puffy red face. i gave you my maiden's gift. i would have given you a son too, but they murdered him with moon tea, with tansy and mint and wormwood, a spoon of honey and a drop of permyroyal. it wasn't me, i never knew, i only drank what father gave me... that's past and done, lysa. lord hoster's dead, and his old maester as well. littlefinger moved closer. have you been at the wine again? you ought not to talk so much. we don't want alayne to know more than she should, do we? or marillion? lady lysa ignored that. cat never gave you anything. it was me who got you your first post, who made jon bring you to court so we could be close to one another. you promised me you would never forget that. nor have i. we're together, just as you always wanted, just as we always planned, just let go of sansa's hair... i won't! i saw you kissing in the snow. she's just like her mother. catelyn kissed you in the godswood, but she never meant it, she never wanted you. why did you love her best? it was me, it was always meeee! i know, love. he took another step. and i am here. all you need to do is take my hand, come on. he held it out to her. there's no cause for all these tears. tears, tears, tears, she sobbed hysterically. no need for tears... but that's not what you said in king's landing. you told me to put the tears in jon's wine, and i did. for robert, and for us! and i wrote catelyn and told her the lannisters had killed my lord husband, just as you said. that was so clever... you were always clever, i told father that, i said petyr's so clever, he'll rise high, he will, he will, and he's sweet and gentle and i have his little baby in my belly... why did you kiss her? why? we're together now, we're together after so long, so very long, why would you want to kiss herrrrrr? lysa, petyr sighed, after all the storms we've suffered, you should trust me better. i swear, i shall never leave your side again, for as long as we both shall live. truly? she asked, weeping. oh, truly? truly. now unhand the girl and come give me a kiss. lysa threw herself into little finger's arms, sobbing. as they hugged, sansa crawled from the moon door on hands and knees and wrapped her arms around the nearest pillar. she could feel her heart pounding. there was snow in her hair and her right shoe was missing. it must have fallen. she shuddered, and hugged the pillar tighter. littlefinger let lysa sob against his chest for a moment, then put his hands on her arms and kissed her lightly. my sweet silly jealous wife, he said, chuckling. i've only loved one woman, i promise you. lysa arryn smiled tremulously. only one? oh, petyr, do you swear it? only one? only cat. he gave her a short, sharp shove. lysa stumbled backward, her feet slipping on the wet marble. and then she was gone. she never screamed. for the longest time there was no sound but the wind. marillion gasped, you... you... the guards were shouting outside the door, pounding with the butts of their heavy spears. lord petyr pulled sansa to her feet. you're not hurt? when she shook her head, he said, run let my guards in, then. quick now, there's no time to lose. this singer's killed my lady wife. ejrilogue the road up to oldstones went twice around the hill before reaching the summit. overgrown and stony, it would have been slow going even in the best of times, and last night's snow had left it muddy as well. snow in autumn in the riverlands, it's unnatural, merrett thought gloomily. it had not been much of a snow, true; just enough to blanket the ground for a night. most of it had started melting away as soon as the sun came up. still, merrett took it for a bad omen. between rains, floods, fire, and war, they had lost two harvests and a good part of a third. an early winter would mean famine all across the riverlands. a great many people would go hungry, and some of them would starve. merrett only hoped he wouldn't be one of them. i may, though. with my luck, i just may. i never did have any luck. beneath the castle ruins, the lower slopes of the hill were so thickly forested that half a hundred outlaws could well have been lurking there. they could be watching me even now. merrett glanced about, and saw nothing but gorse, bracken, thistle, sedge, and blackberry bushes between the pines and grey-green sentinels. elsewhere skeletal elm and ash and scrub oaks choked the ground like weeds. he saw no outlaws, but that meant little. outlaws were better at hiding than honest men. merrett hated the woods, if truth be told, and he hated outlaws even more. outlaws stole my life, he had been known to complain when in his cups. he was too often in his cups, his father said, often and loudly. too true, he thought ruefully. you needed some sort of distinction in the twins, else they were liable to forget you were alive, but a reputation as the biggest drinker in the castle had done little to enhance his prospects, he'd found. i once hoped to be the greatest knight who ever couched a lance. the gods took that away from me. why shouldn't i have a cup of wine from time to time? it helps my headaches. besides, my wife is a shrew, my father despises me, my children are worthless. what do i have to stay sober for? he was sober now, though. well, he'd had two horns of ale when he broke his fast, and a small cup of red when he set out, but that was just to keep his head from pounding. merrett could feel the headache building behind his eyes, and he knew that if he gave it half a chance he would soon feel as if he had a thunderstorm raging between his ears. sometimes his headaches got so bad that it even hurt too much to weep. then all he could do was rest on his bed in a dark room with a damp cloth over his eyes, and curse his luck and the nameless outlaw who had done this to him. just thinking about it made him anxious. he could no wise afford a headache now. if i bring petyr back home safely, all my luck will change. he had the gold, all he needed to do was climb to the top of oldstones, meet the bloody outlaws in the ruined castle, and make the exchange. a simple ransom. even he could not muck it up... unless he got a headache, one so bad that it left him unable to ride. he was supposed to be at the ruins by sunset, not weeping in a huddle at the side of the road. merrett rubbed two fingers against his temple. once more around the hill, and there i am. when the message had come in and he had stepped forward to offer to carry the ransom, his father had squinted down and said, you, merrett? and started laughing through his nose, that hideous heh heh heh laugh of his. merrett practically had to beg before they'd give him the bloody bag of gold. something moved in the underbrush along the side of the road. merrett reined up hard and reached for his sword, but it was only a squirrel. stupid, he told himself, shoving the sword back in its scabbard without ever having gotten it out. outlaws don't have tails. bloody hell, merrett, get hold of yourself. his heart was thumping in his chest as if he were some green boy on his first campaign. as if this were the kingswood and it was the old brotherhood i was going to face, not the lightning lord's sorry lot of brigands. for a moment he was tempted to trot right back down the hill and find the nearest alehouse. that bag of gold would buy a lot of ale, enough for him to forget all about petyr pimple. let them hang him, he brought this on himself. it's no more than he deserves, wandering off with some bloody camp follower like a stag in rut. his head had begun to pound; soft now, but he knew it would get worse. merrett rubbed the bridge of his nose. he really had no right to think so ill of petyr. i did the same myself when i was his age. in his case all it got him was a pox, but still, he shouldn't condemn. whores did have charms, especially if you had a face like petyr's. the poor lad had a wife, to be sure, but she was half the problem. not only was she twice his age, but she was bedding his brother walder too, if the talk was true. there was always lots of talk around the twins, and only a little was ever true, but in this case merrett believed it. black walder was a man who took what he wanted, even his brother's wife. he'd had edwyn's wife too, that was common knowledge, fair walda had been known to slip into his bed from time to time, and some even said he'd known the seventh lady frey a deal better than he should have. small wonder he refused to marry. why buy a cow when there were udders all around begging to be milked? cursing under his breath, merrett jammed his heels into his horse's flanks and rode on up the hill. as tempting as it was to drink the gold away, he knew that if he didn't come back with petyr pimple, he had as well not come back at all. lord walder would soon turn two-and-ninety. his ears had started to go, his eyes were almost gone, and his gout was so bad that he had to be carried everywhere. he could not possibly last much longer, all his sons agreed. and when he goes, everything will change, and not for the better. his father was querulous and stubborn, with an iron will and a wasp's tongue, but he did believe in taking care of his own. all of his own, even the ones who had displeased and disappointed him. even the ones whose names he can't remember, once he was gone, though... when ser stevron had been heir, that was one thing. the old man had been grooming stevron for sixty years, and had pounded it into his head that blood was blood. but stevron had died whilst campaigning with the young wolf in the west - of waiting, no doubt, lame lothar had quipped when the raven brought them the news - and his sons and grandsons were a different sort of frey. stevron's son ser ryman stood to inherit now; a thick-witted, stubborn, greedy man. and after ryman came his own sons, edwyn and black walder, who were even worse. fortunately, lame lothar once said, they hate each other even more than they hate us. merrett wasn't certain that was fortunate at all, and for that matter lothar himself might be more dangerous than either of them. lord walder had ordered the slaughter of the starks at roslin's wedding, but it had been lame lothar who had plotted it out with roose bolton, all the way down to which songs would be played. lothar was a very amusing fellow to get drunk with, but merrett would never be so foolish as to turn his back on him. in the twins, you learned early that only full blood siblings could be trusted, and them not very far. it was like to be every son for himself when the old man died, and every daughter as well. the new lord of the crossing would doubtless keep on some of his uncles, nephews, and cousins at the twins, the ones he happened to like or trust, or more likely the ones he thought would prove useful to him. the rest of us he'll shove out to fend for ourselves. the prospect worried merrett more than words could say. he would be forty in less than three years, too old to take up the life of a hedge knight... even if he'd been a knight, which as it happened he wasn't. he had no land, no wealth of his own. he owned the clothes on his back but not much else, not even the horse he was riding. he wasn't clever enough to be a maester, pious enough to be a septon, or savage enough to be a sellsword. the gods gave me no gift but birth, and they stinted me there. what good was it to be the son of a rich and powerful house if you were the ninth son? when you took grandsons and great-grandsons into account, merrett stood a better chance of being chosen high septon than he did of inheriting the twins. i have no luck, he thought bitterly. i have never had any bloody luck. he was a big man, broad around the chest and shoulders if only of middling height, in the last ten years he had grown soft and fleshy, he knew, but when he'd been younger merrett had been almost as robust as ser hosteen, his eldest full brother, who was commonly regarded as the strongest of lord walder frey's brood. as a boy he'd been packed off to crakehall to serve his mother's family as a page. when old lord sumner had made him a squire, everyone had assumed he would be ser merrett in no more than a few years, but the outlaws of the kingswood brotherhood had pissed on those plans. while his fellow squire jaime lannister was covering himself in glory, merrett had first caught the pox from a camp follower, then managed to get captured by a woman, the one called the white fawn. lord sumner had ransomed him back from the outlaws, but in the very next fight he'd been felled by a blow from a mace that had broken his helm and left him insensible for a fortnight. everyone gave him up for dead, they told him later. merrett hadn't died, but his fighting days were done. even the lightest blow to his head brought on blinding pain and reduced him to tears. under these circumstances knighthood was out of the question, lord sumner told him, not unkindly. he was sent back to the twins to face lord walder's poisonous disdain. after that, merrett's luck had only grown worse. his father had managed to make a good marriage for him, somehow; he wed one of lord darry's daughters, back when the darrys stood high in king aerys's favor. but it seemed as if he no sooner had deflowered his bride than aerys lost his throne. unlike the freys, the darrys had been prominent targaryen loyalists, which cost them half their lands, most of their wealth, and almost all their power. as for his lady wife, she found him a great disappointment from the first, and insisted on popping out nothing but girls for years; three live ones, a stillbirth, and one that died in infancy before she finally produced a son. his eldest daughter had turned out to be a slut, his second a glutton. when ami was caught in the stables with no fewer than three grooms, he'd been forced to marry her off to a bloody hedge knight. that situation could not possibly get any worse, he'd thought... until ser pate decided he could win renown by defeating ser gregor clegane. ami had come running back a widow, to merrett's dismay and the undoubted delight of every stablehand in the twins. merrett had dared to hope that his luck was finally changing when roose bolton chose to wed his walda instead of one of her slimmer, comelier cousins. the bolton alliance was important for house frey and his daughter had helped secure it; he thought that must surely count for something. the old man had soon disabused him. he picked her because she's fat, lord walder said. you think bolton gave a mummer's fart that she was your whelp? think he sat about thinking,'heh, merrett muttonhead, that's the very man i need for a good- father'? your walda's a sow in silk, that's why he picked her, and i'm not like to thank you for it. we'd have had the same alliance at half the price if your little porkling put down her spoon from time to time. the final humiliation had been delivered with a smile, when lame lothar had summoned him to discuss his role in roslin's wedding. we must each play our part, according to our gifts, his half-brother told him. you shall have one task and one task only, merrett, but i believe you are well suited to it. i want you to see to it that greatjon umber is so bloody drunk that he can hardly stand, let alone fight. and even that i failed at. he'd cozened the huge northman into drinking enough wine to kill any three normal men, yet after roslin had been bedded the greatjon still managed to snatch the sword of the first man to accost him and break his arm in the snatching. it had taken eight of them to get him into chains, and the effort had left two men wounded, one dead, and poor old ser leslyn haigh short half a ear. when he couldn't fight with his hands any longer, umber had fought with his teeth. merrett paused a moment and closed his eyes. his head was throbbing like that bloody drum they'd played at the wedding, and for a moment it was all he could do to stay in the saddle. i have to go on, he told himself. if he could bring back petyr pimple, surely it would put him in ser ryman's good graces. petyr might be a whisker on the hapless side, but he wasn't as cold as edwyn, nor as hot as black walder. the boy will be grateful for my part, and his father will see that i'm loyal, a man worth having about. but only if he was there by sunset with the gold. merrett glanced at the sky. right on time, he needed something to steady his hands. he pulled up the waterskin hung from his saddle, uncorked it, and took a long swallow. the wine was thick and sweet, so dark it was almost black, but gods it tasted good. the curtain wall of oldstones had once encircled the brow of the hill like the crown on a king's head. only the foundation remained, and a few waist-high piles of crumbling stone spotted with lichen. merrett rode along the line of the wall until he came to the place where the gatehouse would have stood. the ruins were more extensive here, and he had to dismount to lead his palfrey through them. in the west, the sun had vanished behind a bank of low clouds. gorse and bracken covered the slopes, and once inside the vanished walls the weeds were chest high. merrett loosened his sword in its scabbard and looked about warily, but saw no outlaws. could i have come on the wrong day? he stopped and rubbed his temples with his thumbs, but that did nothing to ease the pressure behind his eyes. seven bloody hells... from somewhere deep within the castle, faint music came drifting through the trees. merrett found himself shivering, despite his cloak. he pulled open his waterskin and had another drink of wine. i could just get back on my horse, ride to oldtown, and drink the gold away. no good ever came from dealing with outlaws. that vile little bitch wenda had burned a fawn into the cheek of his arse while she had him captive. no wonder his wife despised him. i have to go through with this. petyr pimple might be lord of the crossing one day, edwyn has no sons and black walder's only got bastards. petyr will remember who came to get him. he took another swallow, corked the skin up, and led his palfrey through broken stones, gorse, and thin wind-whipped trees, following the sounds to what had been the castle ward. fallen leaves lay thick upon the ground, like soldiers after some great slaughter. a man in patched, faded greens was sitting cross-legged atop a weathered stone sepulcher, fingering the strings of a woodharp. the music was soft and sad. merrett knew the song. high in the halls of the kings who are gone, fenny would dance with her ghosts... get off there, merrett said. you're sitting on a king. old tristifer don't mind my bony arse. the hammer of justice, they called him. been a long while since he heard any new songs. the outlaw hopped down. trim and slim, he had a narrow face and foxy features, but his mouth was so wide that his smile seemed to touch his ears. a few strands of thin brown hair were blowing across his brow. he pushed them back with his free hand and said, do you remember me, my lord? no. merrett frowned. why would i? i sang at your daughter's wedding. and passing well, i thought. that pate she married was a cousin. we're all cousins in sevenstreams. didn't stop him from turning niggard when it was time to pay me. he shrugged. why is it your lord father never has me play at the twins? don't i make enough noise for his lordship? he likes it loud, i have been hearing. you bring the gold? asked a harsher voice, behind him. merrett's throat was dry. bloody outlaws, always hiding in the bushes. it had been the same in the kingswood. you'd think you'd caught five of them, and ten more would spring from nowhere. when he turned, they were all around him; an ill-favored gaggle of leathery old men and smooth-cheeked lads younger than petyr pimple, the lot of them clad in roughspun rags, boiled leather, and bits of dead men's armor. there was one woman with them, bundled up in a hooded cloak three times too big for her. merrett was too flustered to count them, but there seemed to be a dozen at the least, maybe a score. i asked a question. the speaker was a big bearded man with crooked green teeth and a broken nose; taller than merrett, though not so heavy in the belly. a halfhelm covered his head, a patched yellow cloak his broad shoulders. where's our gold? in my saddlebag. a hundred golden dragons. merrett cleared his throat. you'll get it when i see that petyr - a squat one-eyed outlaw strode forward before he could finish, reached into the saddlebag bold as you please, and found the sack. merrett started to grab him, then thought better of it. the outlaw opened the drawstring, removed a coin, and bit it. tastes right. he hefted the sack. feels right too. they're going to take the gold and keep petyr too, merrett thought in sudden panic. that's the whole ransom. all you asked for. his palms were sweating. he wiped them on his breeches. which one of you is beric dondarrion? dondarrion had been a lord before he turned outlaw, he might still be a man of honor. why, that would be me, said the one-eyed man. you're a bloody liar, jack, said the big bearded man in the yellow cloak. it's my turn to be lord beric. does that mean i have to be thoros? the singer laughed. my lord, sad to say, lord beric was needed elsewhere. the times are troubled, and there are many battles to fight. but we'll sort you out just as he would, have no fear. merrett had plenty of fear. his head was pounding too. much more of this and he'd be sobbing. you have your gold, he said. give me my nephew, and i'll be gone. petyr was actually more a great half-nephew, but there was no need to go into that. he's in the godswood, said the man in the yellow cloak. we'll take you to him. notch, you hold his horse. merrett handed over the bridle reluctantly. he did not see what other choice he had. my water skin, he heard himself say. a swallow of wine, to settle my - we don't drink with your sort, yellow cloak said curtly. it's this way. follow me. leaves crunched beneath their heels, and every step sent a spike of pain through merrett's temple. they walked in silence, the wind gusting around them. the last light of the setting sun was in his eyes as he clambered over the mossy hummocks that were all that remained of the keep. behind was the godswood. petyr pimple was hanging from the limb of an oak, a noose tight around his long thin neck. his eyes bulged from a black face, staring down at merrett accusingly. you came too late, they seemed to say. but he hadn't. he hadn't! he had come when they told him. you killed him, he croaked. sharp as a blade, this one, said the one-eyed man. an aurochs was thundering through merrett's head. mother have mercy, he thought. i brought the gold. that was good of you, said the singer amiably. we'll see that it's put to good use. merrett turned away from petyr. he could taste the bile in the back of his throat. you... you had no right. we had a rope, said yellow cloak. that's right enough. two of the outlaws seized merrett's arms and bound them tight behind his back. he was too deep in shock to struggle. no, was all he could manage. i only came to ransom petyr. you said if you had the gold by sunset he wouldn't be harmed... well, said the singer, you've got us there, my lord. that was a lie of sorts, as it happens. the one-eyed outlaw came forward with a long coil of hempen rope. he looped one end around merrett's neck, pulled it tight, and tied a hard knot under his ear. the other end he threw over the limb of the oak. the big man in the yellow cloak caught it. what are you doing? merrett knew how stupid that sounded, but he could not believe what was happening, even then. you'd never dare hang a frey. yellow cloak laughed. that other one, the pimply boy, he said the same thing. he doesn't mean it. he cannot mean it. my father will pay you. i'm worth a good ransom, more than petyr, twice as much. the singer sighed. lord walder might be half-blind and gouty, but he's not so stupid as to snap at the same bait twice. next time he'll send a hundred swords instead of a hundred dragons, i fear. he will! merrett tried to sound stem, but his voice betrayed him. he'll send a thousand swords, and kill you all. he has to catch us first. the singer glanced up at poor petyr. and he can't hang us twice, now can he? he drew a melancholy air from the strings of his woodharp. here now, don't soil yourself. all you need to do is answer me a question, and i'll tell them to let you go. merrett would tell them anything if it meant his life. what do you want to know? i'll tell you true, i swear it. the outlaw gave him an encouraging smile. well, as it happens, we're looking for a dog that ran away. a dog? merrett was lost. what kind of dog? he answers to the name sandor clegane. thoros says he was making for the twins. we found the ferrymen who took him across the trident, and the poor sod he robbed on the kingsroad. did you see him at the wedding, perchance? the red wedding? merrett's skull felt as if it were about to split, but he did his best to recall. there had been so much confusion, but surely someone would have mentioned joffrey's dog sniffing round the twins. he wasn't in the castle. not at the main feast... he might have been at the bastard feast, or in the camps, but... no, someone would have said... he would have had a child with him, said the singer. a skinny girl, about ten. or perhaps a boy the same age. i don't think so, said merrett. not that i knew. no? ah, that's a pity. well, up you go. no, merrett squealed loudly. no, don't, i gave you your answer, you said you'd let me go. seems to me that what i said was i'd tell them to let you go. the singer looked at yellow cloak. lem, let him go. go bugger yourself, the big outlaw replied brusquely. the singer gave merrett a helpless shrug and began to play, the day they hanged black robin. please. the last of merrett's courage was running down his leg. i've done you no harm. i brought the gold, the way you said. i answered your question. i have children. that young wolf never will, said the one-eyed outlaw. merrett could hardly think for the pounding in his head. he shamed us, the whole realm was laughing, we had to cleanse the stain on our honor. his father had said all that and more. maybe so. what do a bunch o' bloody peasants know about a lord's honor? yellow cloak wrapped the end of the rope around his hand three times. we know some about murder, though. not murder. his voice was shrill. it was vengeance, we had a right to our vengeance. it was war. aegon, we called him jinglebell, a poor lackwit never hurt anyone, lady stark cut his throat. we lost half a hundred men in the camps. ser garse goodbrook, kyra's husband, and ser tytos, jared's son... someone smashed his head in with an axe... stark's direwo if killed four of our wolfhounds and tore the kennelmaster's arm off his shoulder, even after we'd filled him full of quarrels... so you sewed his head on robb stark's neck after both o' them were dead, said yellow cloak. my father did that. all i did was drink. you wouldn't kill a man for drinking. merrett remembered something then, something that might be the saving of him. they say lord beric always gives a man a trial, that he won't kill a man unless something's proved against him. you can't prove anything against me. the red wedding was my father's work, and ryman's and lord bolton's. lothar rigged the tents to collapse and put the crossbowmen in the gallery with the musicians, bastard walder led the attack on the camps... they're the ones you want, not me, i only drank some wine... you have no witness. as it happens, you're wrong there. the singer turned to the hooded woman. milady? the outlaws parted as she came forward, saying no word. when she lowered her hood, something tightened inside merrett's chest, and for a moment he could not breathe. no. no, i saw her die. she was dead for a day and night before they stripped her naked and threw her body in the river. raymund opened her throat from ear to ear. she was dead. her cloak and collar hid the gash his brother's blade had made, but her face was even worse than he remembered. the flesh had gone pudding soft in the water and turned the color of curdled milk. half her hair was gone and the rest had turned as white and brittle as a crone's. beneath her ravaged scalp, her face was shredded skin and black blood where she had raked herself with her nails. but her eyes were the most terrible thing. her eyes saw him, and they hated. she don't speak, said the big man in the yellow cloak. you bloody bastards cut her throat too deep for that. but she remembers. he turned to the dead woman and said, what do you say, m'lady? was he part of it? lady catelyn's eyes never left him. she nodded. merrett frey opened his mouth to plead, but the noose choked off his words. his feet left the ground, the rope cutting deep into the soft flesh beneath his chin. up into the air he jerked, kicking and twisting, up and up and up. once, when she was just a little girl, a wandering singer had stayed with them at winterfell for half a year. an old man he was, with white hair and windburnt cheeks, but he sang of knights and quests and ladies fair, and sansa had cried bitter tears when he left them, and begged her father not to let him go. the man has played us every song he knows thrice over, lord eddard told her gently. i cannot keep him here against his will. you need not weep, though. i promise you, other singers will come. they hadn't, though, not for a year or more. sansa had prayed to the seven in their sept and old gods of the heart tree, asking them to bring the old man back, or better still to send another singer, young and handsome. but the gods never answered, and the halls of winterfell stayed silent. but that was when she was a little girl, and foolish. she was a maiden now, three-and-ten and flowered. all her nights were full of song, and by day she prayed for silence. if the eyrie had been made like other castles, only rats and gaolers would have heard the dead man singing. dungeon walls were thick enough to swallow songs and screams alike. but the sky cells had a wall of empty air, so every chord the dead man played flew free to echo off the stony shoulders of the giant's lance. and the songs he chose... he sang of the dance of the dragons, of fair jonquil and her fool, of jenny of oldstones and the prince of dragonflies. he sang of betrayals, and murders most foul, of hanged men and bloody vengeance. he sang of grief and sadness. no matter where she went in the castle, sansa could not escape the music. it floated up the winding tower steps, found her naked in her bath, supped with her at dusk, and stole into her bedchamber even when she latched the shutters tight. it came in on the cold thin air, and like the air, it chilled her. though it had not snowed upon the eyrie since the day that lady lysa fell, the nights had all been bitter cold. the singer's voice was strong and sweet. sansa thought he sounded better than he ever had before, his voice richer somehow, full of pain and fear and longing. she did not understand why the gods would have given such a voice to such a wicked man. he would have taken me by force on the fingers if petyr had not set ser lothor to watch over me, she had to remind herself. and he played to drown out my cries when aunt lysa tried to kill me. that did not make the songs any easier to hear. please, she begged lord petyr, can't you make him stop? i gave the man my word, sweetling. petyr baelish, lord of harrenhal, lord paramount of the trident, and lord protector of the eyrie and the vale of arryn, looked up from the letter he was writing. he had written a hundred letters since lady lysa's fall. sansa had seen the ravens coming and going from the rookery. i'd sooner suffer his singing than listen to his sobbing. it is better that he sings, yes, but... must he play all night, my lord? lord robert cannot sleep. he cries... ... for his mother. that cannot be helped, the wench is dead. petyr shrugged. it will not be much longer. lord nestor is making his ascent on the morrow. sansa had met lord nestor royce once before, after petyr' s wedding to her aunt. royce was the keeper of the gates of the moon, the great castle that stood at the base of the mountain and guarded the steps up to the eyrie. the wedding party had guested with him overnight before beginning their ascent. lord nestor had scarce looked at her twice, but the prospect of him coming here terrified her. he was high steward of the vale as well, jon arryn's trusted liege man, and lady lysa's. he won't... you won't let lord nestor see marillion, will you? her horror must have shown on her face, since petyr put down his quill. on the contrary. i shall insist on it. he beckoned her to take the seat beside him. we have come to an agreement, marillion and i. mord can be most persuasive. and if our singer disappoints us and sings a song we do not care to hear, why, you and i need only say he lies. whom do you imagine lord nestor will believe? us? sansa wished she could be certain. of course. our lies will profit him. the solar was warm, the fire crackling merrily, but sansa shivered all the same. yes, but... but what if... what if lord nestor values honor more than profit? petyr put his arm around her. what if it is truth he wants, and justice for his murdered lady? he smiled. i know lord nestor, sweetling. do you imagine i'd ever let him harm my daughter? i am not your daughter, she thought. i am sansa stark, lord eddard's daughter and lady catelyn's, the blood of winterfell. she did not say it, though. if not for petyr baelish it would have been sansa who went spinning through a cold blue sky to stony death six hundred feet below, instead of lysa arryn. he is so bold. sansa wished she had his courage. she wanted to crawl back into bed and hide beneath her blanket, to sleep and sleep. she had not slept a whole night through since lysa arryn's death. couldn't you tell lord nestor that i am... indisposed, or... he will want to hear your account of lysa's death. my lord, if... if marillion tells what truly... if he lies, you mean? lies? yes... if he lies, if it is my tale against his, and lord nestor looks in my eyes and sees how scared i am... a touch of fear will not be out of place, alayne. you've seen a fearful thing. nestor will be moved. petyr studied her eyes, as if seeing them for the first time. you have your mother's eyes. honest eyes, and innocent. blue as a sunlit sea. when you are a little older, many a man will drown in those eyes. sansa did not know what to say to that. all you need do is tell lord nestor the same tale that you told lord robert, petyr went on. robert is only a sick little boy, she thought, lord nestor is a man grown, stern and suspicious. robert was not strong and had to be protected, even from the truth. some lies are love, petyr had assured her. she reminded him of that. when we lied to lord robert, that was just to spare him, she said. and this lie may spare us. else you and i must leave the eyrie by the same door lysa used. petyr picked up his quill again. we shall serve him lies and arbor gold, and he'll drink them down and ask for more, i promise you. he is serving me lies as well, sansa realized. they were comforting lies, though, and she thought them kindly meant. a lie is not so bad if it is kindly meant. if only she believed them... the things her aunt had said just before she fell still troubled sansa greatly. ravings, petyr called them. my wife was mad, you saw that for yourself. and so she had. all i did was build a snow castle, and she meant to push me out the moon door. petyr saved me. he loved my mother well, and... and her? how could she doubt it? he had saved her. he saved alayne, his daughter, a voice within her whispered. but she was sansa too... and sometimes it seemed to her that the lord protector was two people as well. he was petyr, her protector, warm and funny and gentle... but he was also littlefinger, the lord she'd known at king's landing, smiling slyly and stroking his beard as he whispered in queen cersei's ear. and littlefinger was no friend of hers. when joff had her beaten, the imp defended her, not littlefinger. when the mob sought to rape her, the hound carried her to safety, not littlefinger. when the lannisters wed her to tyrion against her will, ser garlan the gallant gave her comfort, not littlefinger. littlefinger never lifted so much as his little finger for her. except to get me out. he did that for me. i thought it was ser dontos, my poor old drunken florian, but it was petyr all the while. littlefinger was only a mask he had to wear. only sometimes sansa found it hard to tell where the man ended and the mask began. littlefinger and lord petyr looked so very much alike. she would have fled them both, perhaps, but there was nowhere for her to go. winterfell was burned and desolate, bran and rickon dead and cold. robb had been betrayed and murdered at the twins, along with their lady mother. tyrion had been put to death for killing joffrey, and if she ever returned to king's landing the queen would have her head as well. the aunt she'd hoped would keep her safe had tried to murder her instead. her uncle edmure was a captive of the freys, while her great -uncle the blackfish was under siege at riverrun. i have no place but here, sansa thought miserably, and no true friend but petyr. that night the dead man sang the day they hanged black robin, the mother's tears, and the rains of castamere. then he stopped for a while, but just as sansa began to drift off he started to play again. he sang six sorrows, fallen leaves, and alysanne. such sad songs, she thought. when she closed her eyes she could see him in his sky cell, huddled in a corner away from the cold black sky, crouched beneath a fur with his woodharp cradled against his chest. i must not pity him, she told herself. he was vain and cruel, and soon he will be dead. she could not save him. and why should she want to? marillion tried to rape her, and petyr had saved her life not once but twice. some lies you have to tell. lies had been all that kept her alive in king's landing. if she had not lied to joffrey, his kingsguard would have beat her bloody. after alysanne the singer stopped again, long enough for sansa to snatch an hour's rest. but as the first light of dawn was prying at her shutters, she heard the soft strains of on a misty morn drifting up from below, and woke at once. that was more properly a woman's song, a lament sung by a mother on the dawn after some terrible battle, as she searches amongst the dead for the body of her only son. the mother sings her grief for her dead son, sansa thought, but marillion grieves for his fingers, for his eyes. the words rose like arrows and pierced her in the darkness. oh, have you seen my boy, good ser? his hair is chestnut brown he promised he'd come back to me our home's in wendish town. sansa covered her ears with a goose down pillow to shut out the rest of it, but it was no good. day had come and she had woken, and lord nestor royce was coming up the mountain. the high steward and his party reached the eyrie in the late afternoon, with the valley gold and red beneath them and the wind rising. he brought his son ser albar, along with a dozen knights and a score of men-at-arms. so many strangers. sansa looked at their faces anxiously, wondering if they were friends or foes. petyr welcomed his visitors in a black velvet doublet with grey sleeves that matched his woolen breeches and lent a certain darkness to his grey-green eyes. maester colemon stood beside him, his chain of many metals hanging loose about his long, skinny neck. although the maester was much the taller of the two men, it was the lord protector who drew the eye. he had put away his smiles for the day, it seemed. he listened solemnly as royce introduced the knights who had accompanied him, then said, my lords are welcome here. you know our maester colemon, of course. lord nestor, you will recall alayne, my natural daughter? to be sure. lord nestor royce was a bullnecked, barrel-chested, balding man with a grey- shot beard and a stern look. he inclined his head a whole half inch in greeting. sansa curtsied, too frightened to speak for fear she might misspeak. petyr drew her to her feet. sweetling, be a good girl and bring lord robert to the high hall to receive his guests. yes, father. her voice sounded thin and strained. a liar's voice, she thought as she hurried up the steps and across the gallery to the moon tower. a guilty voice. gretchel and maddy were helping robert arryn squirm into his breeches when sansa stepped into his bedchamber. the lord of the eyrie had been crying again. his eyes were red and raw, his lashes crusty, his nose swollen and runny. a trail of snot glistened underneath one nostril, and his lower lip was bloody where he'd bitten it. lord nestor must not see him like this, sansa thought, despairing. gretchel, fetch me the washbasin. she took the boy by the hand and drew him to the bed. did my sweetrobin sleep well last night? no. he sniffed. i never slept one bit, alayne. he was singing again, and my door was locked. i called for them to let me out, but no one ever came. someone locked me in my room. that was wicked of them. dipping a soft cloth into the warm water, she began to clean his face... gently, oh so gently. if you scrubbed robert too briskly, he might begin to shake. the boy was frail, and terribly small for his age. he was eight, but sansa had known bigger five-year- olds. robert's lip quivered. i was going to come sleep with you. i know you were. sweetrobin had been accustomed to crawling in beside his mother, until she wed lord petyr. since lady lysa's death he had taken to wandering the eyrie in quest of other beds. the one he liked best was sansa' s... which was why she had asked ser lothor brune to lock his door last night. she would not have minded if he only slept, but he was always trying to nuzzle at her breasts, and when he had his shaking spells he often wet the bed. lord nestor royce has come up from the gates to see you. sansa wiped beneath his nose. i don't want to see him, he said. i want a story. a story of the winged knight. after, sansa said. first you must see lord nestor. lord nestor has a mole, he said, squirming. robert was afraid of men with moles. mommy said he was dreadful. my poor sweetrobin. sansa smoothed his hair back. you miss her, i know. lord petyr misses her too. he loved her just as you do. that was a lie, though kindly meant. the only woman petyr ever loved was sansa' s murdered mother. he had confessed as much to lady lysa just before he pushed her out the moon door. she was mad and dangerous. she murdered her own lord husband, and would have murdered me if petyr had not come along to save me. robert did not need to know that, though. he was only a sick little boy who'd loved his mother. there, sansa said, you look a proper lord now. maddy, fetch his cloak. it was lambswool, soft and warm, a handsome sky-blue that set off the cream color of his tunic. she fastened it about his shoulders with a silver brooch in the shape of a crescent moon, and took him by the hand. robert came meekly for once. the high hall had been closed since lady lysa's fall, and it gave sansa a chill to enter it again. the hall was long and grand and beautiful, she supposed, but she did not like it here. it was a pale cold place at the best of times. the slender pillars looked like fingerbones, and the blue veins in the white marble brought to mind the veins in an old crone's legs. though fifty silver sconces lined the walls, less than a dozen torches had been lit, so shadows danced upon the floors and pooled in every corner. their footsteps echoed off the marble, and sansa could hear the wind rattling at the moon door. i must not look at it, she told herself, else i'll start to shake as badly as robert. with maddy's help, she got robert seated on his weirwood throne with a stack of pillows underneath him and sent word that his lordship would receive his guests. two guards in sky-blue cloaks opened the doors at the lower end of the hall, and petyr ushered them in and down the long blue carpet that ran between the rows of bone-white pillars. the boy greeted lord nestor with squeaky courtesy and made no mention of his mole. when the high steward asked about his lady mother, robert's hands began to tremble ever so slightly. marillion hurt my mother. he threw her out the moon door. did your lordship see this happen? asked ser marwyn belmore, a lanky ginger-headed knight who had been lysa's captain of guards till petyr had put ser lothor brune in his place. alayne saw it, the boy said. and my lord stepfather. lord nestor looked at her. ser albar, ser marwyn, maester colemon, all of them were looking. she was my aunt but she wanted to kill me, sansa thought. she dragged me to the moon door and tried to push me out. i never wanted a kiss, i was building a castle in the snow. she hugged herself to keep from shaking. forgive her, my lords, petyr baelish said softly. she still has nightmares of that day. small wonder if she cannot bear to speak of it. he came up behind her and put his hands gently on her shoulders. i know how hard this is for you, alayne, but our friends must hear the truth. yes. her throat felt so dry and tight it almost hurt to speak. i saw... i was with the lady lysa when... a tear rolled down her cheek. that's good, a tear is good. ... when marillion... pushed her. and she told the tale again, hardly hearing the words as they spilled out of her. before she was half-done robert began to cry, the pillows shifting perilously beneath him. he killed my mother. i want him to fly! the trembling in his hands had grown worse, and his arms were shaking too. the boy's head jerked and his teeth began to chatter. fly! he shrieked. fly, fly. his arms and legs flailed wildly. lothor brune strode to the dais in time to catch the boy as he slipped from his throne. maester colemon was just a step behind, though there was naught that he could do. helpless as the rest, sansa could only stand and watch as the shaking spell ran its course. one of robert's legs kicked ser lothor in the face. brune cursed, but still held on as the boy twitched and flailed and wet himself. their visitors said not a word; lord nestor at least had seen these fits before. it was long moments before robert's spasms began to subside, and seemed even longer. by the end, the little lordling was so weak he could not stand. best take his lordship back to bed and bleed him, lord petyr said. brune lifted the boy in his arms and carried him from the hall. maester colemon followed, grim-faced. when their footsteps died away there was no sound in the high hall of the eyrie. sansa could hear the night wind moaning outside and scratching at the moon door. she was very cold and very tired. must i tell the tale again? she wondered. but she must have told it well enough. lord nestor cleared his throat. i misliked that singer from the first, he grumbled. i urged lady lysa to send him away. many a time i urged her. you always gave her good counsel, my lord, petyr said. she took no heed of it, royce complained. she heard me grudgingly and took no heed. my lady was too trusting for this world. petyr spoke so tenderly that sansa would have believed he'd loved his wife. lysa could not see the evil in men, only the good. marillion sang sweet songs, and she mistook that for his nature. he called us pigs, ser albar royce said. a blunt broad-shouldered knight who shaved his chin but cultivated thick black side-whiskers that framed his homely face like hedgerows, ser albar was a younger version of his father. he made a song about two pigs snuffling round a mountain, eating a falcon's leavings. that was meant to be us, but when i said so he laughed at me.'why, ser,'tis a song about some pigs,' he said. he made mock of me as well, ser marwyn belmore said. ser ding-dong, he named me. when i vowed i'd cut his tongue out, he ran to lady lysa and hid behind her skirts. as oft he did, lord nestor said. the man was craven, but the favor lady lysa showed him made him insolent. she dressed him like a lord, gave him gold rings and a moonstone belt. even lord jon's favorite falcon. the knight's doublet showed the six white candles of waxley. his lordship loved that bird. king robert gave it to him. petyr baelish sighed. it was unseemly, he agreed, and i put an end to it. lysa agreed to send him away. that was why she met him here, that day. i should have been with her, but i never dreamt... if i had not insisted... it was i who killed her. no, sansa thought, you mustn't say that, you mustn't tell them, you mustn't. but albar royce was shaking his head. no, my lord, you must not blame yourself, he said. this was the singer's work, his father agreed. bring him up, lord petyr. let us write an end to this sorry business. petyr baelish composed himself, and said, as you wish, my lord. he turned to his guardsmen and spoke a command, and the singer was fetched up from the dungeons. the gaoler mord came with him, a monstrous man with small black eyes and a lopsided, scarred face. one ear and part of his cheek had been cleaved off in some battle, but twenty stone of pallid white flesh remained. his clothes fit poorly and had a rank, ripe smell. marillion by contrast looked almost elegant. someone had bathed him and dressed him in a pair of sky-blue breeches and a loose-fitting white tunic with puffed sleeves, belted with a silvery sash that had been a gift from lady lysa. white silk gloves covered his hands, while a white silk bandage spared the lords the sight of his eyes. mord stood behind him with a lash. when the gaoler prodded him in the ribs, the singer went to one knee. good lords, i beg your forgiveness. lord nestor scowled. you confess your crime? if i had eyes i should weep. the singer's voice, so strong and sure by night, was cracked and whispery now. i loved her so, i could not bear to see her in another's arms, to know she shared his bed. i meant no harm to my sweet lady, i swear it. i barred the door so no one could disturb us whilst i declared my passion, but lady lysa was so cold... when she told that she was carrying lord petyr's child, a... a madness seized me... sansa stared at his hands while he spoke. fat maddy claimed that mord had taken off three of his fingers, both pinkies and a ring finger. his little fingers did appear somewhat stiffer than the others, but with those gloves it was hard to be certain. it might have been no more than a story. how would maddy know? lord petyr has been kind enough to let me keep my harp, the blind singer said. my harp and... my tongue... so i may sing my songs. lady lysa dearly loved my singing... take this creature away, or i'm like to kill him myself, lord nestor growled. it sickens me to look at him. mord, take him back to his sky cell, said petyr. yes, m'lord. mord grabbed marillion roughly by the collar. no more mouth. when he spoke, sansa saw to her astonishment that the gaoler's teeth were made of gold. they watched as he half dragged half shoved the singer toward the doors. the man must die, ser marywn belmore declared when they were gone. he should have followed lady lysa out the moon door. without his tongue, ser albar royce added. without that lying, mocking tongue. i have been too gentle with him, i know, petyr baelish said in an apologetic tone. if truth be told, i pity him. he killed for love. for love or hate, said belmore, he must die. soon enough, lord nestor said gruffly. no man lingers long in the sky cells. the blue will call to him. it may, said petyr baelish, but whether marillion will answer, only he can say. he gestured, and his guardsmen opened the doors at the far end of the hall. sers, i know you must be weary after your ascent. rooms have been prepared for all of you to spend the night, and food and wine await you in the lower hall. oswell, show them the way, and see that they have all they need. he turned to nestor royce. my lord, will you join me in the solar for a cup of wine? alayne, sweet ling, come pour for us. a low fire burned in the solar, where a flagon of wine awaited them. arbor gold. sansa filled lord nestor's cup whilst petyr prodded at the logs with an iron poker. lord nestor seated himself beside the fire. this will not be the end of it, he said to petyr, as if sansa were not there. my cousin means to question the singer himself. bronze yohn mistrusts me. petyr pushed a log aside. he means to come in force. symond templeton will join him, do not doubt it. and lady waynwood too, i fear. and lord belmore, young lord hunter, horton redfort. they will bring strong sam stone, the tolletts, the shetts, the coldwaters, some corbrays. you are well-informed. which corbrays? not lord lyonel? no, his brother. ser lyn mislikes me, for some reason. lyn corbray is a dangerous man, lord nestor said doggedly. what do you intend to do? what can i do but make them welcome if they come? petyr gave the flames another stir and set the poker down. my cousin means to remove you as lord protector. if so, i cannot stop him. i keep a garrison of twenty men. lord royce and his friends can raise twenty thousand. petyr went to the oaken chest that sat beneath the window. bronze yohn will do what he will do, he said, kneeling. he opened the chest, drew out a roll of parchment, and brought it to lord nestor. my lord. this is a token of the love my lady bore you. sansa watched royce unroll the parchment. this... this is unexpected, my lord. she was startled to see tears in his eyes. unexpected, but not undeserved. my lady valued you above all her other bannermen. you were her rock, she told me. her rock. lord nestor reddened. she said that? often. and this  petyr gestured at the parchment  is the proof of it. that... that is good to know. jon arryn valued my service, i know, but lady lysa... she scorned me when i came to court her, and i feared... lord nestor furrowed his brow. it bears the arryn seal, i see, but the signature... lysa was murdered before the document could be presented for her signature, so i signed as lord protector. i knew that would have been her wish. i see. lord nestor rolled the parchment. you are... dutiful, my lord. aye, and not without courage. some will call this grant unseemly, and fault you for making it. the keeper's post has never been hereditary. the arryns raised the gates, in the days when they still wore the falcon crown and ruled the vale as kings. the eyrie was their summer seat, but when the snows began to fall the court would make its descent. some would say the gates were as royal as the eyrie. there has been no king in the vale for three hundred years, petyr baelish pointed out. the dragons came, lord nestor agreed. but even after, the gates remained an arryn castle. jon arryn himself was keeper of the gates whilst his father lived. after his ascent, he named his brother ronnel to the honor, and later his cousin denys. lord robert has no brothers, and only distant cousins. true. lord nestor clutched the parchment tightly. i will not say i had not hoped for this. whilst lord jon ruled the realm as hand, it fell to me to rule the vale for him. i did all that he required of me and asked nothing for myself. but by the gods, i earned this! you did, said petyr, and lord robert sleeps more easily knowing that you are always there, a staunch friend at the foot of his mountain. he raised a cup. so... a toast, my lord. to house royce, keepers of the gates of the moon... now and forever. now and forever, aye! the silver cups crashed together. later, much later, after the flagon of arbor gold was dry, lord nestor took his leave to rejoin his company of knights. sansa was asleep on her feet by then, wanting only to crawl off to her bed, but petyr caught her by the wrist. you see the wonders that can be worked with lies and arbor gold? why did she feel like weeping? it was good that nestor royce was with them. were they all lies? not all. lysa often called lord nestor a rock, though i do not think she meant it as a compliment. she called his son a clod. she knew lord nestor dreamed of holding the gates in his own right, a lord in truth as well as name, but lysa dreamed of other sons and meant the castle to go to robert's little brother. he stood. do you understand what happened here, alayne? sansa hesitated a moment. you gave lord nestor the gates of the moon to be certain of his support. i did, petyr admitted, but our rock is a royce, which is to say he is overproud and prickly. had i asked him his price, he would have swelled up like an angry toad at the slight upon his honor. but this way... the man is not utterly stupid, but the lies i served him were sweeter than the truth. he wants to believe that lysa valued him above her other bannermen. one of those others is bronze yohn, after all, and nestor is very much aware that he was born of the lesser branch of house royce. he wants more for his son. men of honor will do things for their children that they would never consider doing for themselves. she nodded. the signature... you might have had lord robert put his hand and seal to it, but instead... ... i signed myself, as lord protector. why? so... if you are removed, or... or killed... ... lord nestor's claim to the gates will suddenly be called into question. i promise you, that is not lost on him. it was clever of you to see it. though no more than i'd expect of mine own daughter. thank you. she felt absurdly proud for puzzling it out, but confused as well. i'm not, though. your daughter. not truly. i mean, i pretend to be alayne, but you know... littlefinger put a finger to her lips. i know what i know, and so do you. some things are best left unsaid, sweetling. even when we are alone? especially when we are alone. elsewise a day will come when a servant walks into a room unannounced, or a guardsman at the door chances to hear something he should not. do you want more blood on your pretty little hands, my darling? marillion's face seemed to float before her, the bandage pale across his eyes. behind him she could see ser dontos, the crossbow bolts still in him. no, sansa said. please. i am tempted to say this is no game we play, daughter, but of course it is. the game of thrones. i never asked to play. the game was too dangerous. one slip and i am dead. oswell... my lord, oswell rowed me from king's landing the night that i escaped. he must know who i am. if he's half as clever as a sheep pellet, you would think so. ser lothor knows as well. but oswell has been in my service a long time, and brune is close-mouthed by nature. kettleblack watches brune for me, and brune watches kettleblack. trust no one, i once told eddard stark, but he would not listen. you are alayne, and you must be alayne all the time. he put two fingers on her left breast. even here. in your heart. can you do that? can you be my daughter in your heart? i... i do not know, my lord, she almost said, but that was not what he wanted to hear. lies and arbor gold, she thought. i am alayne, father. who else would i be? lord littlefinger kissed her cheek. with my wits and cat's beauty, the world will be yours, sweetling. now off to bed. gretchel had laid a fire in her hearth and plumped her featherbed. sansa undressed and slipped beneath the blankets. he will not sing tonight, she prayed, not with lord nestor and the others in the castle. he would not dare. she closed her eyes. sometime during the night she woke, as little robert climbed up into her bed. i forgot to tell lothor to lock him in again, she realized. there was nothing to be done for it, so she put her arm around him. sweetrobin? you can stay, but try not to squirm around. just close your eyes and sleep, little one. i will. he cuddled close and laid his head between her breasts. alayne? are you my mother now? i suppose i am, she said. if a lie was kindly meant, there was no harm in it. the kraken's da ughter the hall was loud with drunken harlaws, distant cousins all. each lord had hung his banner behind the benches where his men were seated. too few, thought asha greyjoy, looking down from the gallery, too few by far. the benches were three-quarters empty. qarl the maid had said as much, when the black wind was approaching from the sea. he had counted the longships moored beneath her uncle's castle, and his mouth had tightened. they have not come, he observed, or not enough of them. he was not wrong, but asha could not agree with him, out where her crew might hear. she did not doubt their devotion, but even ironborn will hesitate to give their lives for a cause that's plainly lost. do i have so few friends as this? amongst the banners, she saw the silver fish of botley, the stone tree of the stonetrees, the black leviathan of volmark, the nooses of the myres. the rest were harlaw scythes. boremund placed his upon a pale blue field, hotho's was girdled within an embattled border, and the knight had quartered his with the gaudy peacock of his mother's house. even sigfryd silverhair showed two scythes counterchanged on a field divided bendwise. only the lord harlaw displayed the silver scythe plain upon a night-black field, as it had flown in the dawn of days: rodrik, called the reader, lord of the ten towers, lord of harlaw, harlaw of harlaw... her favorite uncle. lord rodrik' s high seat was vacant. two scythes of beaten silver crossed above it, so huge that even a giant would have difficulty wielding them, but beneath were only empty cushions. asha was not surprised. the feast was long concluded. only bones and greasy platters remained upon the trestle tables. the rest was drinking, and her uncle rodrik had never been partial to the company of quarrelsome drunks. she turned to three-tooth, an old woman of fearful age who had been her uncle's steward since she was known as twelve-tooth. my uncle is with his books? aye, where else? the woman was so old that a septon had once said she must have nursed the crone. that was when the faith was still tolerated on the isles. lord rodrik had kept septons at ten towers, not for his soul's sake but for his books. with the books, and botley. he was with him too. botley's standard hung in the hall, a shoal of silver fish upon a pale green field, though asha had not seen his swiftfin amongst the other longships. i had heard my nuncle crow's eye had old sawane botley drowned. lord tristifer botley, this one is. tris. she wondered what had happened to sawane's elder son, harren. i will find out soon enough, no doubt. this should be awkward. she had not seen tris botley since... no, she ought not dwell on it. and my lady mother? abed, said three-tooth, in the widow's tower. aye, where else? the widow the tower was named after was her aunt. lady gwynesse had come home to mourn after her husband had died off fair isle during balon greyjoy' s first rebellion. i will only stay until my grief has passed, she had told her brother, famously, though by rights ten towers should be mine, for i am seven years your elder. long years had passed since then, but still the widow lingered, grieving, and muttering from time to time that the castle should be hers. and now lord rodrik has a second half-mad widowed sister beneath his roof, asha reflected. small wonder if he seeks solace in his books. even now, it was hard to credit that frail, sickly lady alannys had outlived her husband lord balon, who had seemed so hard and strong. when asha had sailed away to war, she had done so with a heavy heart, fearing that her mother might well die before she could return. not once had she thought that her father might perish instead. the drowned god plays savage japes upon us all, but men are cruder still. a sudden storm and a broken rope had sent balon greyjoy to his death. or so they claim. asha had last seen her mother when she stopped at ten towers to take on fresh water, on her way north to strike at deepwood motte. alannys harlaw never had the sort of beauty the singers cherished, but her daughter had loved her fierce strong face and the laughter in her eyes. on that last visit, though, she had found lady alannys in a window seat huddled beneath a pile of furs, staring out across the sea. is this my mother, or her ghost? she remembered thinking as she'd kissed her cheek. her mother's skin had been parchment thin, her long hair white. some pride remained in the way she held her head, but her eyes were dim and cloudy, and her mouth had trembled when she asked after theon. did you bring my baby boy? she had asked. theon had been ten years old when he was carried off to winterfell a hostage, and so far as lady alannys was concerned he would always be ten years old, it seemed. theon could not come, asha had to tell her. father sent him reaving along the stony shore. lady alannys had naught to say to that. she only nodded slowly, yet it was plain to see how deep her daughter's words had cut her. and now i must tell her that theon is dead, and drive yet another dagger through her heart. there were two knives buried there already. on the blades were writ the words rodrik and maron, and many a time they twisted cruelly in the night. i will see her on the morrow, asha vowed to herself. her journey had been long and wearisome, she could not face her mother now. i must speak with lord rodrik, she told three-tooth. see to my crew, once they're done unloading black wind. they'll bring captives. i want them to have warm beds and a hot meal. there's cold beef in the kitchens. and mustard in a big stone jar, from oldtown. the thought of that mustard made the old woman smile. a single long brown tooth poked from her gums. that will not serve. we had a rough crossing. i want something hot in their bellies. asha hooked a thumb through the studded belt about her hips. lady glover and the children should not want for wood nor warmth. put them in some tower, not the dungeons. the babe is sick. babes are often sick. most die, and folks are sorry. i shall ask my lord where to put these wolf folk. she caught the woman's nose between thumb and forefinger and pinched. you will do as i say. and if this babe dies, no one will be sorrier than you. three-tooth squealed and promised to obey, till asha let her loose and went to find her uncle. it was good to walk these halls again. ten towers had always felt like home to asha, more so than pyke. not one castle, ten castles squashed together, she had thought, the first time she had seen it. she remembered breathless races up and down the steps and along wallwalks and covered bridges, fishing off the long stone quay, days and nights lost amongst her uncle's wealth of books. his grandfather's grandfather had raised the castle, the newest on the isles. lord theomore harlaw had lost three sons in the cradle and laid the blame upon the flooded cellars, damp stones, and festering nitre of ancient harlaw hall. ten towers was airier, more comfortable, better sited... but lord theomore was a changeable man, as any of his wives might have testified. he'd had six of those, as dissimilar as his ten towers. the book tower was the fattest of the ten, octagonal in shape and made with great blocks of hewn stone. the stair was built within the thickness of the walls. asha climbed quickly, to the fifth story and the room where her uncle read. not that there are any rooms where he does not read. lord rodrik was seldom seen without a book in hand, be it in the privy, on the deck of his sea song, or whilst holding audience. asha had oft seen him reading on his high seat beneath the silver scythes. he would listen to each case as it was laid before him, pronounce his judgment... and read a bit whilst his captain-of-guards went to bring in the next supplicant. she found him hunched over a table by a window, surrounded by parchment scrolls that might have come from valyria before its doom, and heavy leather-bound books with bronze-and-iron hasps. beeswax candles as thick and tall as a man's arm burned on either side of where he sat, on ornate iron holders. lord rodrik harlaw was neither fat nor slim; neither tall nor short; neither ugly nor handsome. his hair was brown, as were his eyes, though the short, neat beard he favored had gone grey. all in all, he was an ordinary man, distinguished only by his love of written words, which so many ironborn found unmanly and perverse. nuncle. she closed the door behind her. what reading was so urgent that you leave your guests without a host? 'archmaester marwyn's book of lost books. he lifted his gaze from the page to study her. hotho brought me a copy from oldtown. he has a daughter he would have me wed. lord rodrik tapped the book with a long nail. see here? marwyn claims to have found three pages of signs and portents, visions written down by the maiden daughter of aenar targaryen before the doom came to valyria. does lanny know that you are here? not as yet. lanny was his pet name for her mother; only the reader called her that. let her rest. asha moved a stack of books off a stool and seated herself. three-tooth seems to have lost two more of her teeth. do you call her one-tooth now? i seldom call her at all. the woman frightens me. what hour is it? lord rodrik glanced out the window, at the moonlit sea. dark, so soon? i had not noticed. you come late. we looked for you some days ago. the winds were against us, and i had captives to concern me. robett glover's wife and children. the youngest is still at the breast, and lady glover's milk dried up during our crossing. i had no choice but to beach black wind upon the stony shore and send my men out to find a wet nurse. they found a goat instead. the girl does not thrive. is there a nursing mother in the village? deepwood is important to my plans. your plans must change. you come too late. late and hungry. she stretched her long legs out beneath the table and turned the pages of the nearest book, a septon's discourse on maegor the crueps war against the poor fellows. oh, and thirsty too. a horn of ale would go down well, nuncle. lord rodrik pursed his lips. you know i do not permit food nor drink in my library. the books   might suffer harm. asha laughed. her uncle frowned. you do like to provoke me. oh, don't look so aggrieved. i have never met a man i didn't provoke, you should know that well enough by now. but enough of me. you are well? he shrugged. well enough. my eyes grow weaker. i have sent to myr for a lens to help me read. and how fares my aunt? lord rodrik sighed. still seven years my elder, and convinced ten towers should be hers. gwynesse grows forgetful, but that she does not forget. she mourns for her dead husband as deeply as she did the day he died, though she cannot always recall his name. i am not certain she ever knew his name. asha closed the septon's book with a thump. was my father murdered? so your mother believes. there were times when she would gladly have murdered him herself, she thought. and what does my nuncle believe? balon fell to his death when a rope bridge broke beneath him. a storm was rising, and the bridge was swaying and twisting with each gust of wind. rodrik shrugged. or so we are told. your mother had a bird from maester wendamyr. asha slid her dirk out of its sheath and began to clean the dirt from beneath her fingernails. three years away, and the crow's eye returns the very day my father dies. the day after, we had heard. silence was still out to sea when balon died, or so it is claimed. even so, i will agree that euron's return was... timely, shall we say? that is not how i would say it. asha slammed the point of the dirk into the table. where are my ships? i counted twoscore longships moored below, not near enough to throw the crow's eye off my father's chair. i sent the summons. in your name, for the love i bear you and your mother. house harlaw has gathered. stonetree as well, and volmark. some myres... all from the isle of harlaw... one isle out of seven. i saw one lonely botley banner in the hall, from pyke. where are the ships from saltchffe, from orkwood, from the wyks? baelor blacktyde came from blacktyde to consult with me, and just as soon set sail again. lord rodrik closed the book of lost books. he is on old wyk by now. old wyk? asha had feared he was about to say that they all had gone to pyke, to do homage to the crow's eye. why old wyk? i thought you would have heard. aeron damphair has called a kingsmoot. asha threw back her head and laughed. the drowned god must have shoved a pricklefish up uncle aeron's arse. a kingsmoot? is this some jape, or does he mean it truly? the damphair has not japed since he was drowned. and the other priests have taken up the call. blind beron blacktyde, tarle the thrice-drowned... even the old grey gull has left that rock he lives on to preach this kingsmoot all across harlaw. the captains are gathering on old wyk as we speak. asha was astonished. has the crow's eye agreed to attend this holy farce and abide by its decision? the crow's eye does not confide in me. since he summoned me to pyke to do him homage, i have had no word from euron. a kingsmoot. this is something new... or rather, something very old. and my uncle victarion? what does he make of the damphair's notion? victarion was sent word of your father's death. and of this kingsmoot too, i do not doubt. beyond that, i cannot say. better a kingsmoot than a war. i believe i'll kiss the damphair's smelly feet and pluck the seaweed from out between his toes. asha wrenched loose her dirk and sheathed it once again. a bloody kingsmoot! on old wyk, confirmed lord rodrik. though i pray it is not bloody. i have been consulting haereg's history of the ironborn. when last the salt kings and the rock kings met in kingsmoot, urron of orkmont let his axemen loose among them, and nagga's ribs turned red with gore. house greyiron ruled unchosen for a thousand years from that dark day, until the andals came. you must lend me haereg's book, nuncle. she would need to learn all she could of kingsmoots before she reached old wyk. you may read it here. it is old and fragile. he studied her, frowning. archmaester rigney once wrote that history is a wheel, for the nature of man is fundamentally unchanging. what has happened before will perforce happen again, he said. i think of that whenever i contemplate the crow's eye. euron greyjoy sounds queerly like urron greyiron to these old ears. i shall not go to old wyk. nor should you. asha smiled. and miss the first kingsmoot called in... how long has it been, nuncle? four thousand years, if haereg can be believed. half that, if you accept maester denestan's arguments in questions. going to old wyk serves no purpose. this dream of kingship is a madness in our blood. i told your father so the first time he rose, and it is more true now than it was then. it's land we need, not crowns. with stannis baratheon and tywin lannister contending for the iron throne, we have a rare chance to improve our lot. let us take one side or the other, help them to victory with our fleets, and claim the lands we need from a grateful king. that might be worth some thought, once i sit the seastone chair, said asha. her uncle sighed. you will not want to hear this, asha, but you will not be chosen. no woman has ever ruled the ironborn. gwynesse is seven years my elder, but when our father died the ten towers came to me. it will be the same for you. you are balon's daughter, not his son. and you have three uncles. four. three kraken uncles. i do not count. you do with me. so long as i have my nuncle of ten towers, i have harlaw. harlaw was not the largest of the iron islands, but it was the richest and most populous, and lord rodrik's power was not to be despised. on harlaw, harlaw had no rival. the volmarks and stonetrees had large holdings on the isle and boasted famous captains and fierce warriors of their own, but even the fiercest bent beneath the scythe. the kennings and the myres, once bitter foes, had long ago been beaten down to vassals. my cousins do me fealty, and in war i should command their swords and sails. in kingsmoot, though... lord rodrik shook his head. beneath the bones of nagga every captain stands as equal. some may shout your name, i do not doubt it. but not enough. and when the shouts ring out for victarion or the crow's eye, some of those now drinking in my hall will join the rest. i say again, do not sail into this storm. your fight is hopeless. no fight is hopeless till it has been fought. i have the best claim. i am the heir of balon's body. you are still a willful child. think of your poor mother. you are all that lanny has left to her. i will put a torch to black wind if need be, to keep you here. what, and make me swim to old wyk? a long cold swim, for a crown you cannot keep. your father had more courage than sense. the old way served the isles well when we were one small kingdom amongst many, but aegon's conquest put an end to that. balon refused to see what was plain before him. the old way died with black harren and his sons. i know that. asha had loved her father, but she did not delude herself. balon had been blind in some respects. a brave man but a bad lord. does that mean we must live and die as thralls to the iron throne? if there are rocks to starboard and a storm to port, a wise captain steers a third course. show me this third course. i shall... at my queensmoot. nuncle, how can you even think of not attending? this will be history, alive... i prefer my history dead. dead history is writ in ink, the living sort in blood. do you want to die old and craven in your bed? how else? though not till i'm done reading. lord rodrik went to the window. you have not asked about your lady mother. i was afraid. how is she? stronger. she may yet outlive us all. she will certainly outlive you, if you persist in this folly. she eats more than she did when she first came here, and oft sleeps through the night. good. in her final years on pyke, lady alannys could not sleep. she would wander the halls at night with a candle, looking for her sons. maron? she would call shrilly. rodrik, where are you? theon, my baby, come to mother. many a time asha had watched the maester draw splinters from her mother's heels of a morning, after she had crossed the swaying plank bridge to the sea tower on bare feet. i will see her in the morning. she will ask for word of theon. the prince of winterfell. what have you told her? little and less. there was naught to tell. he hesitated. you are certain that he is dead? i am certain of nothing. you found a body? we found parts of many bodies. the wolves were there before us... the four-legged sort, but they showed scant reverence for their two-legged kin. the bones of the slain were scattered, cracked open for their marrow. i confess, it was hard to know what happened there. it seemed as though the northmen fought amongst themselves. crows will fight over a dead man's flesh and kill each other for his eyes. lord rodrik stared across the sea, watching the play of moonlight on the waves. we had one king, then five. now all i see are crows, squabbling over the corpse of westeros. he fastened the shutters. do not go to old wyk, asha. stay with your mother. we shall not have her long, i fear. asha shifted in her seat. my mother raised me to be bold. if i do not go, i will spend the rest of my life wondering what might have happened if i had. if you do go, the rest of your life may be too short for wondering. better that than fill the remainder of my days complaining that the seastone chair by rights was mine. i am no gwynesse. that made him wince. asha, my two tall sons fed the crabs of fair isle. i am not like to wed again. stay, and i shall name you heir to the ten towers. be content with that. ten towers? would that i could. your cousins will not like that. the knight, old sigfryd, hotho humpback... they have lands and seats of their own. true enough. damp, decaying harlaw hall belonged to old sigfryd harlaw the silverhair; humpbacked hotho harlaw had his seat at the tower of glimmering, on a crag above the western coast. the knight, ser harras harlaw, kept court at grey garden; boremund the blue ruled atop harridan hill. but each was subject to lord rodrik. boremund has three sons, sigfryd silverhair has grandsons, and hotho has ambitions, asha said. they all mean to follow you, even sigfryd. that one intends to live forever. the knight will be the lord of harlaw after me, her uncle said, but he can rule from grey garden as easily as from here. do fealty to him for the castle and ser harras will protect you. i can protect myself. nuncle, i am a kraken. asha, of house greyjoy. she pushed to her feet. it's my father's seat i want, not yours. those scythes of yours look perilous. one could fall and slice my head off. no, i'll sit the seastone chair. then you are just another crow, screaming for carrion. rodrik sat again behind his table. go. i wish to return to archmaester marwyn and his search. let me know if he should find another page. her uncle was her uncle. he would never change. but he will come to old wyk, no matter what he says. by now her crew would be eating in the hall. asha knew she ought to join them, to speak of this gathering on old wyk and what it meant for them. her own men would be solidly behind her, but she would need the rest as well, her harlaw cousins, the volmarks, and the stonetrees. those are the ones i must win. her victory at deepwood motte would serve her in good stead, once her men began to boast of it, as she knew they would. the crew of her black wind took a perverse pride in the deeds of their woman captain. half of them loved her like a daughter, and other half wanted to spread her legs, but either sort would die for her. and i for them, she was thinking as she shouldered through the door at the bottom of the steps, into the moonlit yard. asha? a shadow stepped out from behind the well. her hand went to her dirk at once... until the moonlight transformed the dark shape into a man in a sealskin cloak. another ghost. tris. i'd thought to find you in the hall. i wanted to see you. what part of me, i wonder? she grinned. well, here i stand, all grown up. look all you like. a woman. he moved closer. and beautiful. tristifer botley had filled out since last she'd seen him, but he had the same unruly hair that she remembered, and eyes as large and trusting as a seal's. sweet eyes, truly. that was the trouble with poor tristifer; he was too sweet for the iron islands. his face has grown comely, she thought. as a boy tris had been much troubled by pimples. asha had suffered the same affliction; perhaps that had been what drew them together. i was sorry to hear about your father, she told him. i grieve for yours. why? asha almost asked. it was balon who'd sent the boy away from pyke, to be a ward of baelor blacktyde's. is it true you are lord botley now? in name, at least. harren died at moat cailin. one of the bog devils shot him with a poisoned arrow. but i am the lord of nothing. when my father denied his claim to the seastone chair, the crow's eye drowned him and made my uncles swear him fealty. even after that he gave half my father's lands to iron holt. lord wynch was the first man to bend his knee and call him king. house wynch was strong on pyke, but asha took care not to let her dismay show. wynch never had your father's courage. your uncle bought him, tris said. the silence returned with holds full of treasure. plate and pearls, emeralds and rubies, sapphires big as eggs, bags of coin so heavy that no man can lift them... the crow's eye has been buying friends at every hand. my uncle germund calls himself lord botley now, and rules in lordsport as your uncle's man. you are the rightful lord botley, she assured him. once i hold the seastone chair, your father's lands shall be restored. if you like. it's nought to me. you look so lovely in the moonlight, asha. a woman grown now, but i remember when you were a skinny girl with a face all full of pimples. why must they always mention the pimples? i remember that as well. though not as fondly as you do. of the five boys her mother had brought to pyke to foster after ned stark had taken her last living son as hostage, tris had been closest to asha in age. he had not been the first boy she had ever kissed, but he was the first to undo the laces of her jerkin and slip a sweaty hand beneath to feel her budding breasts. i would have let him feel more than that if he'd been bold enough. her first flowering had come upon her during the war and wakened her desire, but even before that asha had been curious. he was there, he was mine own age, and he was willing, that was all it was... that, and the moon blood. even so, she'd called it love, till tris began to go on about the children she would bear him; a dozen sons at least, and oh, some daughters too. i don't want to have a dozen sons, she had told him, appalled. i want to have adventures. not long after, maester qalen found them at their play, and young tristifer botley was sent away to blacktyde. i wrote you letters, he said, but maester joseran would not send them. once i gave a stag to an oarsman on a trader bound for lordsport, who promised to put my letter in your hands. your oarsman winkled you and threw your letter in the sea. i feared as much. they never gave me your letters either. i wrote none. in truth, she had been relieved when tris was sent away. by then his rumblings had begun to bore her. that was not something he would care to hear, however. aeron damphair has called a kingsmoot. will you come and speak for me? i will go anywhere with you, but... lord blacktyde says this kingsmoot is a dangerous folly. he thinks your uncle will descend on them and kill them all, as urron did. he's mad enough. he lacks the strength. you do not know his strength. he's been gathering men on pyke. orkwood of orkmont brought him twenty longships, and pinchface jon myre a dozen. left-hand lucas codd is with them. and harren half-hoare, the red oarsman, kemmett pyke the bastard, rodrik freeborn, torwold browntooth... men of small account. asha knew them, every one. the sons of salt wives, the grandsons of thralls. the codds... do you know their words? though all men do despise us, tris said, but if they catch you in those nets of theirs, you'll be as dead as if they had been dragonlords. and there's worse. the crow's eye brought back monsters from the east... aye, and wizards too. nuncle always had a fondness for freaks and fools, said asha. my father used to fight with him about it. let the wizards call upon their gods. the damphair will call on ours, and drown them. will i have your voice at the queensmoot, tris? you shall have all of me. i am your man, forever. asha, i would wed you. your lady mother has given her consent. she stifled a groan. you might have asked me first... though you might not have liked the answer half so well. i am no second son now, he went on. i am the rightful lord botley, as you said yourself. and you are   what i am will be settled on old wyk. tris, we are no longer children fumbling at each other and trying to see what fits where. you think you want to wed me, but you don't. i do. all i dream about is you. asha, i swear upon the bones of nagga, i have never touched another woman. go touch one... or two, or ten. i have touched more men than i can count. some with my lips, more with my axe. she had surrendered her virtue at six-and-ten, to a beautiful blond-haired sailor on a trading galley up from lys. he only knew six words of the common tongue, but fuck was one of them  the very word she'd hoped to hear. afterward, asha had the sense to find a woods witch, who showed her how to brew moon tea to keep her belly flat. botley blinked, as if he did not quite understand what she had said. you... i thought you would wait. why... he rubbed his mouth. asha, were you forced? so forced i tore his tunic. you do not want to wed me, take my word on that. you are a sweet boy and always were, but i am no sweet girl. if we wed, soon enough you'd come to hate me. never. asha, i have ached for you. she had heard enough of this. a sickly mother, a murdered father, and a plague of uncles were enough for any woman to contend with; she did not require a lovesick puppy too. find a brothel, tris. they'll cure you of that ache. i could never... tristifer shook his head. you and i were meant to be, asha. i have always known you would be my wife, and the mother of my sons. he seized her upper arm. in a blink her dirk was at his throat. take your hand away or you won't live long enough to breed a son. now. when he did, she lowered the blade. you want a woman, well and good. i'll put one in your bed tonight. pretend she's me, if that will give you pleasure, but do not presume to grab at me again. i am your queen, not your wife. remember that. asha sheathed her dirk and left him standing there, with a fat drop of blood slowly creeping down his neck, black in the pale light of the moon. 