at winterfell they had called her arya horseface and she'd thought nothing could be worse, but that was before the orphan boy lommy greenhands had named her lumpyhead. her head felt lumpy when she touched it. when yoren had dragged her into that alley she'd thought he meant to kill her, but the sour old man had only held her tight, sawing through her mats and tangles with his dagger. she remembered how the breeze sent the fistfuls of dirty brown hair skittering across the paving stones, toward the sept where her father had died. i'm taking men and boys from the city, yoren growled as the sharp steel scraped at her head. now you hold still, boy. by the time he had finished, her scalp was nothing but tufts and stubble. afterward he told her that from there to winterfell she'd be arry the orphan boy. gate shouldn't be hard, but the road's another matter. you got a long way to go in bad company. i got thirty this time, men and boys all bound for the wall, and don't be thinking they're like that bastard brother o' yours. he shook her. lord eddard gave me pick o' the dungeons, and i didn't find no little lordlings down there. this lot, half o' them would turn you over to the queen quick as spit for a pardon and maybe a few silvers. the other half d do the same, only they'd rape you first. so you keep to yourself and make your water in the woods, alone. that'll be the hardest part, the pissing, so don't drink no more'n you need. leaving king's landing was easy, just like he'd said. the lannister guardsmen on the gate were stopping everyone, but yoren called one by name and their wagons were waved through. no one spared arya a glance. they were looking for a highborn girl, daughter of the king's hand, not for a skinny boy with his hair chopped off. arya never looked back. she wished the rush would rise and wash the whole city away, flea bottom and the red keep and the great sept and everything, and everyone too, especially prince joffrey and his mother. but she knew it wouldn't, and anyhow sansa was still in the city and would wash away too. when she remembered that, arya decided to wish for winterfell instead. yoren was wrong about the pissing, though. that wasn't the hardest part at all; lommy greenhands and hot pie were the hardest part. orphan boys. yoren had plucked some from the streets with promises of food for their bellies and shoes for their feet. the rest he'd found in chains. the watch needs good men, he told them as they set out, but you lot will have to do. yoren had taken grown men from the dungeons as well, thieves and poachers and rapers and the like. the worst were the three he'd found in the black cells who must have scared even him, because he kept them fettered hand and foot in the back of a wagon, and vowed they'd stay in irons all the way to the wall. one had no nose, only the hole in his face where it had been cut off, and the gross fat bald one with the pointed teeth and the weeping sores on his cheeks had eyes like nothing human. they took five wagons out of king's landing, laden with supplies for the wall: hides and bolts of cloth, bars of pig iron, a cage of ravens, books and paper and ink, a bale of sourleaf, jars of oil, and chests of medicine and spices. teams of plow horses pulled the wagons, and yoren had bought two coursers and a half-dozen donkeys for the boys. arya would have preferred a real horse, but the donkey was better than riding on a wagon. the men paid her no mind, but she was not so lucky with the boys. she was two years younger than the youngest orphan, not to mention smaller and skinnier, and lommy and hot pie took her silence to mean she was scared, or stupid, or deaf. look at that sword lumpyhead's got there, lommy said one morning as they made their plodding way past orchards and wheat fields. he'd been a dyer's apprentice before he was caught stealing, and his arms were mottled green to the elbow. when he laughed he brayed like the donkeys they were riding. where's a gutter rat like lumpyhead get him a sword? arya chewed her lip sullenly. she could see the back of yoren's faded black cloak up ahead of the wagons, but she was determined not to go crying to him for help. maybe he's a little squire, hot pie put in. his mother had been a baker before she died, and he'd pushed her cart through the streets all day, shouting hot pies! hot pies! some lordy lord's little squire boy, that's it. he ain't no squire, look at him. i bet that's not even a real sword. i bet it's just some play sword made of tin. arya hated them making fun of needle. it's castle-forged steel, you stupid, she snapped, turning in the saddle to glare at them, and you better shut your mouth. the orphan boys hooted. where'd you get a blade like that, lumpyface? hot pie wanted to know. lumpyhead, corrected lommy. he prob'ly stole it. i did not! she shouted. jon snow had given her needle. maybe she had to let them call her lumpyhead, but she wasn't going to let them call jon a thief. if he stole it, we could take it off him, said hot pie. it's not his anyhow. i could use me a sword like that. lommy egged him on. go on, take it off him, i dare you. hot pie kicked his donkey, riding closer. hey, lumpyface, you gimme that sword. his hair was the color of straw, his fat face all sunburnt and peeling. you don't know how to use it. yes i do, arya could have said. i killed a boy, a fat boy like you, i stabbed him in the belly and he died, and i'll kill you too if you don't let me alone. only she did not dare. yoren didn't know about the stableboy, but she was afraid of what he might do if he found out. arya was pretty sure that some of the other men were killers too, the three in the manacles for sure, but the queen wasn't looking for them, so it wasn't the same. look at him, brayed lommy greenhands. i bet he's going to cry now. you want to cry, lumpyhead? she had cried in her sleep the night before, dreaming of her father. come morning, she'd woken red-eyed and dry, and could not have shed another tear if her life had hung on it. he's going to wet his pants, hot pie suggested. leave him be, said the boy with the shaggy black hair who rode behind them. lommy had named him the bull, on account of this horned helm he had that he polished all the time but never wore. lommy didn't dare mock the bull. he was older, and big for his age, with a broad chest and strong-looking arms. you better give hot pie the sword, arry, lommy said. hot pie wants it bad. he kicked a boy to death. he'll do the same to you, i bet. i knocked him down and i kicked him in the balls, and i kept kicking him there until he was dead, hot pie boasted. i kicked him all to pieces. his balls were broke open and bloody and his cock turned black. you better gimme the sword. arya slid her practice sword from her belt. you can have this one, she told hot pie, not wanting to fight. that's just some stick. he rode nearer and tried to reach over for needle's hilt. arya made the stick whistle as she laid the wood across his donkey's hindquarters. the animal hawed and bucked, dumping hot pie on the ground. she vaulted off her own donkey and poked him in the gut as he tried to get up and he sat back down with a grunt. then she whacked him across the face and his nose made a crack like a branch breaking. blood dribbled from his nostrils. when hot pie began to wail, arya whirled toward lommy greenhands, who was sitting on his donkey openmouthed. you want some sword too? she yelled, but he didn't. he raised dyed green hands in front of his face and squealed at her to get away. the bull shouted, behind you, and arya spun. hot pie was on his knees, his fist closing around a big jagged rock. she let him throw it, ducking her head as it sailed past. then she flew at him. he raised a hand and she hit it, and then his cheek, and then his knee. he grabbed for her, and she danced aside and bounced the wood off the back of his head. he fell down and got up and stumbled after her, his red face all smeared with dirt and blood. arya slid into a water dancer's stance and waited. when he came close enough, she lunged, right between his legs, so hard that if her wooden sword had had a point it would have come out between his butt cheeks. by the time yoren pulled her off him, hot pie was sprawled out on the ground with his breeches brown and smelly, crying as arya whapped him over and over and over. enough, the black brother roared, prying the stick sword from her fingers, you want to kill the fool? when lommy and some others started to squeal, the old man turned on them too. shut your mouths, or i'll be shutting them for you. any more o' this, i'll tie you lot behind the wagons and drag you to the wall. he spat. and that goes twice for you, arry. you come with me, boy. now they were all looking at her, even the three chained and manacled in the back of the wagon. the fat one snapped his pointy teeth together and hissed, but arya ignored him. the old man dragged her well off the road into a tangle of trees, cursing and muttering all the while. if i had a thimble o' sense, i would've left you in king's landing. you hear me, boy? he always snarled that word, putting a bite in it so she would be certain to hear. unlace your breeches and pull 'em down. go on, there's no one here to see. do it. sullenly, arya did as he said. over there, against the oak. yes, like that. she wrapped her arms around the trunk and pressed her face to the rough wood. you scream now. you scream loud. i won't, arya thought stubbornly, but when yoren laid the wood against the back of her bare thighs, the shriek burst out of her anyway. think that hurt? he said. try this one. the stick came whistling. arya shrieked again, clutching the tree to keep from falling. one more. she held on tight, chewing her lip, flinching when she heard it coming. the stroke made her jump and howl. i won't cry, she thought, i won't do that. i'm a stark of winterfell, our sigil is the direwolf, direwolves don't cry. she could feel a thin trickle of blood running down her left leg. her thighs and cheeks were ablaze with pain. might be i got your attention now, yoren said. next time you take that stick to one of your brothers, you'll get twice what you give, you hear me? now cover yourself. they're not my brothers, arya thought as she bent to yank up her breeches, but she knew better than to say so. her hands fumbled with her belt and laces. yoren was looking at her. you hurt? calm as still water, she told herself, the way syrio forel had taught her. some. he spat. that pie boy's hurting worse. it wasn't him as killed your father, girl, nor that thieving lommy neither. hitting them won't bring him back. i know, arya muttered sullenly. here's something you don't know. it wasn't supposed to happen like it did. i was set to leave, wagons bought and loaded, and a man comes with a boy for me, and a purse of coin, and a message, never mind who it's from. lord eddard's to take the black, he says to me, wait, he'll be going with you. why d'you think i was there? only something went queer. joffrey, arya breathed. someone should kill him! someone will, but it won't be me, nor you neither. yoren tossed back her stick sword. got sourleaf back at the wagons, he said as they made their way back to the road. you'll chew some, it'll help with the sting. it did help, some, though the taste of it was foul and it made her spit look like blood. even so, she walked for the rest of that day, and the day after, and the day after that, too raw to sit a donkey. hot pie was worse off; yoren had to shift some barrels around so he could lie in the back of a wagon on some sacks of barley, and he whimpered every time the wheels hit a rock. lommy greenhands wasn't even hurt, yet he stayed as far away from arya as he could get. every time you look at him, he twitches, the bull told her as she walked beside his donkey. she did not answer. it seemed safer not to talk to anyone. that night she lay upon her thin blanket on the hard ground, staring up at the great red comet. the comet was splendid and scary all at once. the red sword, the bull named it; he claimed it looked like a sword, the blade still red-hot from the forge. when arya squinted the right way she could see the sword too, only it wasn't a new sword, it was ice, her father's greatsword, all ripply valyrian steel, and the red was lord eddard's blood on the blade after ser ilyn the king's justice had cut off his head. yoren had made her look away when it happened, yet it seemed to her that the comet looked like ice must have, after. when at last she slept, she dreamed of home. the kingsroad wound its way past winterfell on its way to the wall, and yoren had promised he'd leave her there with no one any wiser about who she'd been. she yearned to see her mother again, and robb and bran and rickon... but it was jon snow she thought of most. she wished somehow they could come to the wall before winterfell, so jon might muss up her hair and call her little sister. she'd tell him, i missed you, and he'd say it too at the very same moment, the way they always used to say things together. she would have liked that. she would have liked that better than anything. they traveled dawn to dusk, past woods and orchards and neatly tended fields, through small villages, crowded market towns, and stout holdfasts. come dark, they would make camp and eat by the light of the red sword. the men took turns standing watch. arya would glimpse firelight flickering through the trees from the camps of other travelers. there seemed to be more camps every night, and more traffic on the kingsroad by day. morn, noon, and night they came, old folks and little children, big men and small ones, barefoot girls and women with babes at their breasts. some drove farm wagons or bumped along in the back of ox carts. more rode: draft horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, anything that would walk or run or roll. one woman led a milk cow with a little girl on its back. arya saw a smith pushing a wheelbarrow with his tools inside, hammers and tongs and even an anvil, and a little while later a different man with a different wheelbarrow, only inside this one were two babies in a blanket. most came on foot, with their goods on their shoulders and weary, wary looks upon their faces. they walked south, toward the city, toward king's landing, and only one in a hundred spared so much as a word for yoren and his charges, traveling north. she wondered why no one else was going the same way as them. many of the travelers were armed; arya saw daggers and dirks, scythes and axes, and here and there a sword. some had made clubs from tree limbs, or carved knobby staffs. they fingered their weapons and gave lingering looks at the wagons as they rolled by, yet in the end they let the column pass. thirty was too many, no matter what they had in those wagons. look with your eyes, syrio had said, listen with your ears. one day a madwoman began to scream at them from the side of the road. fools! they'll kill you, fools! she was scarecrow thin, with hollow eyes and bloody feet. the next morning, a sleek merchant on a grey mare reined up by yoren and offered to buy his wagons and everything in them for a quarter of their worth. it's war, they'll take what they want, you'll do better selling to me, my friend. yoren turned away with a twist of his crooked shoulders, and spat. arya noticed the first grave that same day; a small mound beside the road, dug for a child. a crystal had been set in the soft earth, and lommy wanted to take it until the bull told him he'd better leave the dead alone. a few leagues farther on, praed pointed out more graves, a whole row freshly dug. after that, a day hardly passed without one. one time arya woke in the dark, frightened for no reason she could name. above, the red sword shared the sky with half a thousand stars. the night seemed oddly quiet to her, though she could hear yoren's muttered snores, the crackle of the fire, even the muffled stirrings of the donkeys. yet somehow it felt as though the world were holding its breath, and the silence made her shiver. she went back to sleep clutching needle. come morning, when praed did not awaken, arya realized that it had been his coughing she had missed. they dug a grave of their own then, burying the sellsword where he'd slept. yoren stripped him of his valuables before they threw the dirt on him. one man claimed his boots, another his dagger. his mail shirt and helm were parceled out. his longsword yoren handed to the bull. arms like yours, might be you can learn to use this, he told him. a boy called tarber tossed a handful of acorns on top of praed's body, so an oak might grow to mark his place. that evening they stopped in a village at an ivy-covered inn. yoren counted the coins in his purse and decided they had enough for a hot meal. we'll sleep outside, same as ever, but they got a bathhouse here, if any of you feels the need o' hot water and a lick o' soap. arya did not dare, even though she smelled as bad as yoren by now, all sour and stinky. some of the creatures living in her clothes had come all the way from flea bottom with her; it didn't seem right to drown them. tarber and hot pie and the bull joined the line of men headed for the tubs. others settled down in front of the bathhouse. the rest crowded into the common room. yoren even sent lommy out with tankards for the three in fetters, who'd been left chained up in the back of their wagon. washed and unwashed alike supped on hot pork pies and baked apples. the innkeeper gave them a round of beer on the house. i had a brother took the black, years ago. serving boy, clever, but one day he got seen filching pepper from m' lord's table. he liked the taste of it, is all. just a pinch o' pepper, but ser malcolm was a hard man. you get pepper on the wall? when yoren shook his head, the man sighed. shame. lync loved that pepper. arya sipped at her tankard cautiously, between spoonfuls of pie still warm from the oven. her father sometimes let them have a cup of beer, she remembered. sansa used to make a face at the taste and say that wine was ever so much finer, but arya had liked it well enough, it made her sad to think of sansa and her father. the inn was full of people moving south, and the common room erupted in scorn when yoren said they were traveling the other way. you'll be back soon enough, the innkeeper vowed. there's no going north. half the fields are burnt, and what folks are left are walled up inside their holdfasts. one bunch rides off at dawn and another one shows up by dusk. that's nothing to us, yoren insisted stubbornly. tully or lannister, makes no matter. the watch takes no part. lord tully is my grandfather, arya thought. it mattered to her, but she chewed her lip and kept quiet, listening. it's more than lannister and tully, the innkeeper said. there's wild men down from the mountains of the moon, try telling them you take no part. and the starks are in it too, the young lord's come down, the dead hand's son... arya sat up straight, straining to hear. did he mean robb? i heard the boy rides to battle on a wolf, said a yellow-haired man with a tankard in his hand. fool's talk. yoren spat. the man i heard it from, he saw it himself. a wolf big as a horse, he swore. swearing don't make it true, hod, the innkeeper said. you keep swearing you'll pay what you owe me, and i've yet to see a copper. the common room erupted in laughter, and the man with the yellow hair turned red. it's been a bad year for wolves, volunteered a sallow man in a travelstained green cloak. around the gods eye, the packs have grown bolder'n anyone can remember. sheep, cows, dogs, makes no matter, they kill as they like, and they got no fear of men. it's worth your life to go into those woods by night. ah, that's more tales, and no more true than the other. i heard the same thing from my cousin, and she's not the sort to lie, an old woman said. she says there's this great pack, hundreds of them, mankillers. the one that leads them is a she-wolf, a bitch from the seventh hell. a she-wolf arya sloshed her beer, wondering. was the gods eye near the trident? she wished she had a map. it had been near the trident that she'd left nymeria. she hadn't wanted to, but jory said they had no choice, that if the wolf came back with them she'd be killed for biting joffrey, even though he'd deserved it. they'd had to shout and scream and throw stones, and it wasn't until a few of arya's stones struck home that the direwolf had finally stopped following them. she probably wouldn't even know me now, arya thought. or if she did, she'd hate me. the man in the green cloak said, i heard how this hellbitch walked into a village one day... a market day, people everywhere, and she walks in bold as you please and tears a baby from his mother's arms. when the tale reached lord mooton, him and his sons swore they'd put an end to her. they tracked her to her lair with a pack of wolfhounds, and barely escaped with their skins. not one of those dogs came back, not one. that's just a story, arya blurted out before she could stop herself. wolves don't eat babies. and what would you know about it, lad? asked the man in the green cloak. before she could think of an answer, yoren had her by the arm. the boy's greens ick on beer, that's all it is. no i'm not. they don't eat babies... outside, boy... and see that you stay there until you learn to shut your mouth when men are talking. he gave her a stiff shove, toward the side door that led back to the stables. go on now. see that the stableboy has watered our horses. arya went outside, stiff with fury. they don't, she muttered, kicking at a rock as she stalked off. it went rolling and fetched up under the wagons. boy, a friendly voice called out. lovely boy. one of the men in irons was talking to her. warily, arya approached the wagon, one hand on needle's hilt. the prisoner lifted an empty tankard, his chains rattling. a man could use another taste of beer. a man has a thirst, wearing these heavy bracelets. he was the youngest of the three, slender, fine-featured, always smiling. his hair was red on one side and white on the other, all matted and filthy from cage and travel. a man could use a bath too, he said, when he saw the way arya was looking at him. a boy could make a friend. i have friends, arya said. none i can see, said the one without a nose. he was squat and thick, with huge hands. black hair covered his arms and legs and chest, even his back. he reminded arya of a drawing she had once seen in a book, of an ape from the summer isles. the hole in his face made it hard to look at him for long. the bald one opened his mouth and hissed like some immense white lizard. when arya flinched back, startled, he opened his mouth wide and waggled his tongue at her, only it was more a stump than a tongue. stop that, she blurted. a man does not choose his companions in the black cells, the handsome one with the red- and- white hair said. something about the way he talked reminded her of syrio; it was the same, yet different too. these two, they have no courtesy. a man must ask forgiveness. you are called arry, is that not so? lumpyhead, said the noseless one. lumpyhead lumpyface stickboy. have a care, lorath, he'll hit you with his stick. a man must be ashamed of the company he keeps, arry, the handsome one said. this man has the honor to be jaqen hghar, once of the free city of lorath. would that he were home. this man's ill-bred companions in captivity are named rorge-he waved his tankard at the noseless man-and biter. biter hissed at her again, displaying a mouthful of yellowed teeth filed into points. a man must have some name, is that not so? biter cannot speak and biter cannot write, yet his teeth are very sharp, so a man calls him biter and he smiles. are you charmed? arya backed away from the wagon. no. they can't hurt me, she told herself, they're all chained up. he turned his tankard upside down. a man must weep. rorge, the noseless one, flung his drinking cup at her with a curse. his manacles made him clumsy, yet even so he would have sent the heavy pewter tankard crashing into her head if arya hadn't leapt aside. you get us some beer, pimple. now! you shut your mouth! arya tried to think what syrio would have done. she drew her wooden practice sword. come closer, rorge said, and i'll shove that stick up your bunghole and fuck you bloody. fear cuts deeper than swords. arya made herself approach the wagon. every step was harder than the one before. fierce as a wolverine, calm as still water. the words sang in her head. syrio would not have been afraid. she was almost close enough to touch the wheel when biter lurched to his feet and grabbed for her, his irons clanking and rattling. the manacles brought his hands up short, half a foot from her face. he hissed. she hit him. hard, right between his little eyes. screaming, biter reeled back, and then threw all his weight against his chains. the links slithered and turned and grew taut, and arya heard the creak of old dry wood as the great iron rings strained against the floorboards of the wagon. huge pale hands groped for her while veins bulged along biter's arms, but the bonds held, and finally the man collapsed backward. blood ran from the weeping sores on his cheeks. a boy has more courage than sense, the one who had named himself jaqen h'ghar observed. arya edged backward away from the wagon. when she felt the hand on her shoulder, she whirled, bringing up her stick sword again, but it was only the bull. what are you doing? he raised his hands defensively. yoren said none of us should go near those three. they don't scare me, arya said. then you're stupid. they scare me. the bull's hand fell to the hilt of his sword, and rorge began to laugh. let's get away from them. arya scuffed at the ground with her foot, but she let the bull lead her around to the front of the inn. rorge's laughter and biter's hissing followed them. want to fight? she asked the bull. she wanted to hit something. he blinked at her, startled. strands of thick black hair, still wet from the bathhouse, fell across his deep blue eyes. i'd hurt you. you would not. you don't know how strong i am. you don't know how quick i am. you're asking for it, any. he drew praed's longsword. this is cheap steel, but it's a real sword. arya unsheathed needle. this is good steel, so it's realer than yours. the bull shook his head. promise not to cry if i cut you? i'll promise if you will. she turned sideways, into her water dancer's stance, but the bull did not move. he was looking at something behind her. what's wrong? gold cloaks. his face closed up tight. it couldn't be, arya thought, but when she glanced back, they were riding up the kingsroad, six in the black ringmail and golden cloaks of the city watch. one was an officer; he wore a black enamel breastplate ornamented with four golden disks. they drew up in front of the inn. look with your eyes, syrio's voice seemed to whisper. her eyes saw white lather under their saddles; the horses had been ridden long and hard. calm as still water, she took the bull by the arm and drew him back behind a tall flowering hedge. what is it? he asked. what are you doing? let go. quiet as a shadow, she whispered, pulling him down. some of yoren's other charges were sitting in front of the bathhouse, waiting their turn at a tub. you men, one of the gold cloaks shouted. you the ones left to take the black? we might be, came the cautious answer. we'd rather join you boys, old reysen said. we hear it's cold on that wall. the gold cloak officer dismounted. i have a warrant for a certain boy- yoren stepped out of the inn, fingering his tangled black beard. who is it wants this boy? the other gold cloaks were dismounting to stand beside their horses. why are we hiding? the bull whispered. it's me they want, arya whispered back. his ear smelled of soap. you be quiet. the queen wants him, old man, not that it's your concern, the officer said, drawing a ribbon from his belt. here, her grace's seal and warrant. behind the hedge, the bull shook his head doubtfully. why would the queen want you, arry? she punched his shoulder. be quiet! yoren fingered the warrant ribbon with its blob of golden wax. pretty. he spit. thing is, the boy's in the night's watch now. what he done back in the city don't mean piss-all. the queen's not interested in your views, old man, and neither am i, the officer said. i'll have the boy. arya thought about running, but she knew she wouldn't get far on her donkey when the gold cloaks had horses. and she was so tired of running. she'd run when ser meryn came for her, and again when they killed her father. if she was a real water dancer, she would go out there with needle and kill all of them, and never run from anyone ever again. you'll have no one, yoren said stubbornly. there's laws on such things. the gold cloak drew a shortsword. here's your law. yoren looked at the blade. that's no law, just a sword. happens i got one too. the officer smiled. old fool. i have five men with me. yoren spat. happens i got thirty. the gold cloak laughed. this lot? said a big lout with a broken nose. who's first? he shouted, showing his steel. tarber plucked a pitchfork out of a bale of hay. i am. no, i am, called cutjack, the plump stonemason, pulling his hammer off the leather apron he always wore. me. kurz came up off the ground with his skinning knife in hand. me and him. koss strung his longbow. all of us, said reysen, snatching up the tall hardwood walking staff he carried. dobber stepped naked out of the bathhouse with his clothes in a bundle, saw what was happening, and dropped everything but his dagger. is it a fight? he asked. i guess, said hot pie, scrambling on all fours for a big rock to throw. arya could not believe what she was seeing. she hated hot pie! why would he risk himself for her? the one with the broken nose still thought it was funny. you girls put away them rocks and sticks before you get spanked. none of you knows what end of a sword to hold. i do! arya wouldn't let them die for her like syrio. she wouldn't! shoving through the hedge with needle in hand, she slid into a water dancer's stance. broken nose guffawed. the officer looked her up and down. put the blade away, little girl, no one wants to hurt you. i'm not a girl! she yelled, furious. what was wrong with them? they rode all this way for her and here she was and they were just smiling at her. i'm the one you want. he's the one we want. the officer jabbed his shortsword toward the bull, who'd come forward to stand beside her, praed's cheap steel in his hand. but it was a mistake to take his eyes off yoren, even for an instant. quick as that, the black brother's sword was pressed to the apple of the officer's throat. neither's the one you get, less you want me to see if your apple's ripe yet. i got me ten, fifteen more brothers in that inn, if you still need convincing. i was you, i'd let loose of that gutcutter, spread my cheeks over that fat little horse, and gallop on back to the city. he spat, and poked harder with the point of his sword. now. the officer's fingers uncurled. his sword fell in the dust. we'll just keep that, yoren said. good steel's always needed on the wall. as you say. for now. men. the gold cloaks sheathed and mounted up. you'd best scamper up to that wall of yours in a hurry, old man. the next time i catch you, i believe i'll have your head to go with the bastard boy's. better men than you have tried. yoren slapped the rump of the officer's horse with the flat of his sword and sent him reeling off down the kingsroad. his men followed. when they were out of sight, hot pie began to whoop, but yoren looked angrier than ever. fool! you think he's done with us? next time he won't prance up and hand me no damn ribbon. get the rest out o' them baths, we need to be moving. ride all night, maybe we can stay ahead o' them for a bit. he scooped up the shortsword the officer had dropped. who wants this? me! hot pie yelled. don't be using it on arry. he handed the boy the sword, hilt first, and walked over to arya, but it was the bull he spoke to. queen wants you bad, boy. arya was lost. why should she want him? the bull scowled at her. why should she want you? you're nothing but a little gutter rat! well, you're nothing but a bastard boy! or maybe he was only pretending to be a bastard boy. what's your true name? gendry, he said, like he wasn't quite sure. don't see why no one wants neither o' you, yoren said, but they can't have you regardless. you ride them two coursers. first sight of a gold cloak, make for the wall like a dragon's on your tail. the rest o' us don't mean spit to them. except for you, arya pointed out. that man said he'd take your head too. well, as to that, yoren said, if he can get it off my shoulders, he's welcome to it. the road was little more than two ruts through the weeds. the good part was, with so little traffic there'd be no one to point the finger and say which way they'd gone. the human flood that had flowed down the kingsroad was only a trickle here. the bad part was, the road wound back and forth like a snake, tangling with even smaller trails and sometimes seeming to vanish entirely only to reappear half a league farther on when they had all but given up hope. arya hated it. the land was gentle enough, rolling hills and terraced fields interspersed with meadows and woodlands and little valleys where willows crowded close to slow shallow streams. even so, the path was so narrow and crooked that their pace had dropped to a crawl. it was the wagons that slowed them, lumbering along, axles creaking under the weight of their heavy loads. a dozen times a day they had to stop to free a wheel that had stuck in a rut, or double up the teams to climb a muddy slope. once, in the middle of a dense stand of oak, they came face-to-face with three men pulling a load of firewood in an ox cart, with no way for either to get around. there had been nothing for it but to wait while the foresters unhitched their ox, led him through the trees, spun the cart, hitched the ox up again, and started back the way they'd come. the ox was even slower than the wagons, so that day they hardly got anywhere at all. arya could not help looking over her shoulder, wondering when the gold cloaks would catch them. at night, she woke at every noise to grab for needle's hilt. they never made camp without putting out sentries now, but arya did not trust them, especially the orphan boys. they might have done well enough in the alleys of king's landing, but out here they were lost. when she was being quiet as a shadow, she could sneak past all of them, flitting out by starlight to make her water in the woods where no one would see. once, when lommy greenhands had the watch, she shimmied up an oak and moved from tree to tree until she was right above his head, and he never saw a thing. she would have jumped down on top of him, but she knew his scream would wake the whole camp, and yoren might take a stick to her again. lommy and the other orphans all treated the bull like someone special now because the queen wanted his head, though he would have none of it. i never did nothing to no queen, he said angrily. i did my work, is all. bellows and tongs and fetch and carry. i was s 'posed to be an armorer, and one day master mott says i got to join the night's watch, that's all i know. then he'd go off to polish his helm. it was a beautiful helm, rounded and curved, with a slit visor and two great metal bull's horns. arya would watch him polish the metal with an oilcloth, shining it so bright you could see the flames of the cookfire reflected in the steel. yet he never actually put it on his head. i bet he's that traitor's bastard, lommy said one night, in a hushed voice so gendry would not hear. the wolf lord, the one they nicked on baelor's steps. he is not, arya declared. my father only had one bastard, and that's jon. she stalked off into the trees, wishing she could just saddle her horse and ride home. she was a good horse, a chestnut mare with a white blaze on her forehead. and arya had always been a good rider. she could gallop off and never see any of them, unless she wanted to. only then she'd have no one to scout ahead of her, or watch behind, or stand guard while she napped, and when the gold cloaks caught her, she'd be all alone. it was safer to stay with yoren and the others. we're not far from gods eye, the black brother said one morning. the kingsroad won't be safe till we're across the trident. so we'll come up around the lake along the western shore, they're not like to look for us there. at the next spot where two ruts cut cross each other, he turned the wagons west. here farmland gave way to forest, the villages and holdfasts were smaller and farther apart, the hills higher and the valleys deeper. food grew harder to come by. in the city, yoren had loaded up the wagons with salt fish, hard bread, lard, turnips, sacks of beans and barley, and wheels of yellow cheese, but every bite of it had been eaten. forced to live off the land, yoren turned to koss and kurz, who'd been taken as poachers. he would send them ahead of the column, into the woods, and come dusk they would be back with a deer slung between them on a pole or a brace of quail swinging from their belts. the younger boys would be set to picking blackberries along the road, or climbing fences to fill a sack with apples if they happened upon an orchard. arya was a skilled climber and a fast picker, and she liked to go off by herself. one day she came across a rabbit, purely by happenstance. it was brown and fat, with long ears and a twitchy nose. rabbits ran faster than cats, but they couldn't climb trees half so well. she whacked it with her stick and grabbed it by its ears, and yoren stewed it with some mushrooms and wild onions. arya was given a whole leg, since it was her rabbit. she shared it with gendry. the rest of them each got a spoonful, even the three in manacles. jaqen h'ghar thanked her politely for the treat, and biter licked the grease off his dirty fingers with a blissful look, but rorge, the noseless one, only laughed and said, there's a hunter now. lumpyface lumpyhead rabbitkiller. outside a holdfast called briarwhite, some fieldhands surrounded them in a cornfield, demanding coin for the ears they'd taken. yoren eyed their scythes and tossed them a few coppers. time was, a man in black was feasted from dome to winterfell, and even high lords called it an honor to shelter him under their roofs, he said bitterly. now cravens like you want hard coin for a bite of wormy apple. he spat. it's sweetcorn, better'n a stinking old black bird like you deserves, one of them answered roughly. you get out of our field now, and take these sneaks and stabbers with you, or we'll stake you up in the corn to scare the other crows away. they roasted the sweetcorn in the husk that night, turning the ears with long forked sticks, and ate it hot right off the cob. arya thought it tasted wonderful, but yoren was too angry to eat. a cloud seemed to hang over him, ragged and black as his cloak. he paced about the camp restlessly, muttering to himself. the next day koss came racing back to warn yoren of a camp ahead. twenty or thirty men, in mail and halfhelms, he said. some of them are cut up bad, and one's dying, from the sound of him. with all the noise he was making, i got right up close. they got spears and shields, but only one horse, and that's lame. i think they been there awhile, from the stink of the place. see a banner? spotted treecat, yellow and black, on a mud-brown field. yoren folded a sourleaf into his mouth and chewed. can't say, he admitted. might be one side, might be t'other, if they're hurt that bad, likely they'd take our mounts no matter who they are. might be they'd take more than that. i believe we'll go wide around them. it took them miles out of their way, and cost them two days at the least, but the old man said it was cheap at the price. you'll have time enough on the wall. the rest o' your lives, most like. seems to me there's no rush to get there.  arya saw men guarding the fields more and more when they turned north again. often they stood silently beside the road, giving a cold eye to anyone who passed. elsewhere they patrolled on horses, riding their fence lines with axes strapped to their saddles. at one place, she spotted a man perched up in a dead tree, with a bow in his hand and a quiver hanging from the branch beside him. the moment he spied them, he notched an arrow to his bowstring, and never looked away until the last wagon was out of sight. all the while, yoren cursed. him in his tree, let's see how well he likes it up there when the others come to take him. he'll scream for the watch then, that he will. a day later dobber spied a red glow against the evening sky. either this road went and turned again, or that sun's setting in the north. yoren climbed a rise to get a better look. fire, he announced. he licked a thumb and held it up. wind should blow it away from us. still bears watching. and watch it they did. as the world darkened, the fire seemed to grow brighter and brighter, until it looked as though the whole north was ablaze. from time to time, they could even smell the smoke, though the wind held steady and the flames never got any closer. by dawn the fire had burned itself out, but none of them slept very well that night. it was midday when they arrived at the place where the village had been. the fields were a charred desolation for miles around, the houses blackened shells. the carcasses of burnt and butchered animals dotted the ground, under living blankets of carrion crows that rose, cawing furiously, when disturbed. smoke still drifted from inside the holdfast. its timber palisade looked strong from afar, but had not proved strong enough. riding out in front of the wagons on her horse, arya saw burnt bodies impaled on sharpened stakes atop the walls, their hands drawn up tight in front of their faces as if to fight off the flames that had consumed them. yoren called a halt when they were still some distance off, and told arya and the other boys to guard the wagons while he and murch and cutjack went in on foot. a flock of ravens rose from inside the walls when they climbed through the broken gate, and the caged ravens in their wagons called out to them with quorks and raucous shrieks. should we go in after them? arya asked gendry after yoren and the others had been gone a long time. yoren said wait. gendry's voice sounded hollow. when arya turned to look, she saw that he was wearing his helm, all shiny steel and great curving horns. when they finally returned, yoren had a little girl in his arms, and murch and cutjack were carrying a woman in a sling made of an old torn quilt. the girl was no older than two and she cried all the time, a whimpery sound, like something was caught in her throat. either she couldn't talk yet or she had forgotten how. the woman's right arm ended in a bloody stump at her elbow, and her eyes didn't seem to see anything, even when she was looking right at it. she talked, but she only said one thing. please, she cried, over and over. please. please. rorge thought that was funny. he laughed through the hole in his face where his nose had been, and biter started laughing too, until murch cursed them and told them to shut up. yoren had them fix the woman a place in the back of a wagon. and be quick about it, he said. come dark, there'll be wolves here, and worse. i'm scared, hot pie murmured when he saw the one-armed woman thrashing in the wagon. me too, arya confessed. he squeezed her shoulder. i never truly kicked no boy to death, any. i just sold my mommy's pies, is all. arya rode as far ahead of the wagons as she dared, so she wouldn't have to hear the little girl crying or listen to the woman whisper, please. she remembered a story old nan had told once, about a man imprisoned in a dark castle by evil giants. he was very brave and smart and he tricked the giants and escaped... but no sooner was he outside the castle than the others took him, and drank his hot red blood. now she knew how he must have felt. the one-armed woman died at evenfall. gendry and cutjack dug her grave on a hillside beneath a weeping willow. when the wind blew, arya thought she could hear the long trailing branches whispering, please. please. please. the little hairs on the back of her neck rose, and she almost ran from the graveside. no fire tonight, yoren told them. supper was a handful of wild radishes koss found, a cup of dry beans, water from a nearby brook. the water had a funny taste to it, and lommy told them it was the taste of bodies, rotting someplace upstream. hot pie would have hit him if old reysen hadn't pulled them apart. arya drank too much water, just to fill her belly with something. she never thought she'd be able to sleep, yet somehow she did. when she woke, it was pitch-black and her bladder was full to bursting. sleepers huddled all around her, wrapped in blankets and cloaks. arya found needle, stood, listened. she heard the soft footfalls of a sentry, men turning in restless sleep, rorge's rattling snores, and the queer hissing sound that biter made when he slept. from a different wagon came the steady rhythmic scrape of steel on stone as yoren sat, chewing sourleaf and sharpening the edge of his dirk. hot pie was one of the boys on watch. where you going? he asked when he saw arya heading for the trees. arya waved vaguely at the woods. no you're not, hot pie said. he had gotten bolder again now that he had a sword on his belt, even though it was just a shortsword and he handled it like a cleaver. the old man said for everyone to stay close tonight. i need to make water, arya explained. well, use that tree right there. he pointed. you don't know what's out there, arry. i heard wolves before. yoren wouldn't like it if she fought with him. she tried to look afraid. wolves? for true? i heard, he assured her. i don't think i need to go after all. she went back to her blanket and pretended to sleep until she heard hot pie's footsteps going away. then she rolled over and slipped off into the woods on the other side of the camp, quiet as a shadow. there were sentries out this way too, but arya had no trouble avoiding them, just to make sure, she went out twice as far as usual. when she was sure there was no one near, she skinned down her breeches and squatted to do her business. she was making water, her clothing tangled about her ankles, when she heard rustling from under the trees. hot pie, she thought in panic, he followed me. then she saw the eyes shining out from the wood, bright with reflected moonlight. her belly clenched tight as she grabbed for needle, not caring if she pissed herself, counting eyes, two four eight twelve, a whole pack... one of them came padding out from under the trees. he stared at her, and bared his teeth, and all she could think was how stupid she'd been and how hot pie would gloat when they found her half-eaten body the next morning. but the wolf turned and raced back into the darkness, and quick as that the eyes were gone. trembling, she cleaned herself and laced up and followed a distant scraping sound back to camp, and to yoren. arya climbed up into the wagon beside him, shaken. wolves, she whispered hoarsely. in the woods. aye. they would be. he never looked at her. they scared me. did they? he spat. seems to me your kind was fond o' wolves. nymeria was a direwolf arya hugged herself. that's different. anyhow, she's gone. jory and i threw rocks at her until she ran off, or else the queen would have killed her. it made her sad to talk about it. i bet if she'd been in the city, she wouldn't have let them cut off father's head. orphan boys got no fathers, yoren said, or did you forget that? the sourleaf had turned his spit red, so it looked like his mouth was bleeding. the only wolves we got to fear are the ones wear manskin, like those who done for that village. i wish i was home, she said miserably. she tried so hard to be brave, to be fierce as a wolverine and all, but sometimes she felt like she was just a little girl after all. the black brother peeled a fresh sourleaf from the bale in the wagon and stuffed it into his mouth. might be i should of left you where i found you, boy. all of you. safer in the city, seems to me. i don't care. i want to go home. been bringing men to the wall for close on thirty years. froth shone on yoren's lips, like bubbles of blood. all that time, i only lost three. old man died of a fever, city boy got snakebit taking a shit, and one fool tried to kill me in my sleep and got a red smile for his trouble. he drew the dirk across his throat, to show her. three in thirty years. he spat out the old sourleaf. a ship now, might have been wiser. no chance o' finding more men on the way, but still... clever man, he'd go by ship, but me... thirty years i been taking this kingsroad. he sheathed his dirk. go to sleep, boy. hear me? she did try. yet as she lay under her thin blanket, she could hear the wolves howling... and another sound, fainter, no more than a whisper on the wind, that might have been screams. the river was a blue-green ribbon shining in the morning sun. reeds grew thick in the shallows along the banks, and arya saw a water snake skimming across the surface, ripples spreading out behind it as it went. overhead a hawk flew in lazy circles. it seemed a peaceful place... until koss spotted the dead man. there, in the reeds. he pointed, and arya saw it. the body of a soldier, shapeless and swollen. his sodden green cloak had hung up on a rotted log, and a school of tiny silver fishes were nibbling at his face. i told you there was bodies, lommy announced. i could taste them in that water. when yoren saw the corpse, he spat. dobber, see if he's got anything worth the taking. mail, knife, a bit o' coin, what have you. he spurred his gelding and rode out into the river, but the horse struggled in the soft mud and beyond the reeds the water deepened. yoren rode back angry, his horse covered in brown slime up to the knees. we won't be crossing here. koss, you'll come with me upriver, look for a ford. woth, gerren, you go downstream. the rest o' you wait here. put a guard out. dobber found a leather purse in the dead man's belt. inside were four coppers and a little hank of blond hair tied up with a red ribbon. lommy and tarber stripped naked and went wading, and lommy scooped up handfuls of slimy mud and threw them at hot pie, shouting, mud pie! mud pie! in the back of their wagon, rorge cursed and threatened and told them to unchain him while yoren was gone, but no one paid him any mind. kurz caught a fish with his bare hands. arya saw how he did it, standing over a shallow pool, calm as still water, his hand darting out quick as a snake when the fish swam near. it didn't look as hard as catching cats. fish didn't have claws. it was midday when the others returned. woth reported a wooden bridge half a mile downstream, but someone had burned it up. yoren peeled a sourleaf off the bale. might be we could swim the horses over, maybe the donkeys, but there's no way we'll get those wagons across. and there's smoke to the north and west, more fires, could be this side o' the river's the place we want to be. he picked up a long stick and drew a circle in the mud, a line trailing down from it. that's gods eye, with the river flowing south. we're here. he poked a hole beside the line of the river, under the circle. we can't go round west of the lake, like i thought. east takes us back to the kingsroad. he moved the stick up to where the line and circle met. near as i recall, there's a town here. the holdfast's stone, and there's a lordling got his seat there too, just a towerhouse, but he'll have a guard, might be a knight or two. we follow the river north, should be there before dark. they'll have boats, so i mean to sell all we got and hire us one. he drew the stick up through the circle of the lake, from bottom to top. gods be good, we'll find a wind and sail across the gods eye to harrentown. he thrust the point down at the top of the circle. we can buy new mounts there, or else take shelter at harrenhal. that's lady whent's seat, and she's always been a friend o' the watch. hot pie's eyes got wide. there's ghosts in harrenhal. yoren spat. there's for your ghosts. he tossed the stick down in the mud. mount up. arya was remembering the stories old nan used to tell of harrenhal. evil king harren had walled himself up inside, so aegon unleashed his dragons and turned the castle into a pyre. nan said that fiery spirits still haunted the blackened towers. sometimes men went to sleep safe in their beds and were found dead in the morning, all burnt up. arya didn't really believe that, and anyhow it had all happened a long time ago. hot pie was being silly; it wouldn't be ghosts at harrenhal, it would be knights. arya could reveal herself to lady whent, and the knights would escort her home and keep her safe. that was what knights did; they kept you safe, especially women. maybe lady whent would even help the crying girl. the river track was no kingsroad, yet it was not half bad for what it was, and for once the wagons rolled along smartly. they saw the first house an hour shy of evenfall, a snug little thatch-roofed cottage surrounded by fields of wheat. yoren rode out ahead, hallooing, but got no answer. dead, might be. or hiding. dobber, rey, with me. the three men went into the cottage. pots is gone, no sign o' any coin laid by, yoren muttered when they returned. no animals. run, most like. might be we met 'em on the kingsroad. at least the house and field had not been burned, and there were no corpses about. tarber found a garden out back, and they pulled some onions and radishes and filled a sack with cabbages before they went on their way. a little farther up the road, they glimpsed a forester's cabin surrounded by old trees and neatly stacked logs ready for the splitting, and later a ramshackle stilt-house leaning over the river on poles ten feet tall, both deserted. they passed more fields, wheat and corn and barley ripening in the sun, but here there were no men sitting in trees, nor walking the rows with scythes. finally the town came into view; a cluster of white houses spread out around the walls of the holdfast, a big sept with a shingled wooden roof, the lord's towerhouse sitting on a small rise to the west... and no sign of any people, anywhere. yoren sat on his horse, frowning through his tangle of beard. don't like it, he said, but there it is. we'll go have us a look. a careful look. see maybe there's some folk hiding. might be they left a boat behind, or some weapons we can use. the black brother left ten to guard the wagons and the whimpery little girl, and split the rest of them into four groups of five to search the town. keep your eyes and ears open, he warned them, before he rode off to the towerhouse to see if there was any sign of the lordling or his guards. arya found herself with gendry, hot pie, and lommy. squat, kettlebellied woth had pulled an oar on a galley once, which made him the next best thing they had to a sailor, so yoren told him to take them down to the lake front and see if they could find a boat. as they rode between the silent white houses, gooseprickles crawled up arya's arms. this empty town frightened her almost as much as the burnt holdfast where they'd found the crying girl and the one-armed woman. why would people run off and leave their homes and everything? what could scare them so much? the sun was low to the west, and the houses cast long dark shadows. a sudden clap of sound made arya reach for needle, but it was only a shutter banging in the wind. after the open river shore, the closeness of the town unnerved her. when she glimpsed the lake ahead between houses and trees, arya put her knees into her horse, galloping past woth and gendry. she burst out onto the grassy sward beside the pebbled shore. the setting sun made the tranquil surface of the water shimmer like a sheet of beaten copper. it was the biggest lake she had ever seen, with no hint of a far shore. she saw a rambling inn to her left, built out over the water on heavy wooden pilings. to her right, a long pier jutted into the lake, and there were other docks farther east, wooden fingers reaching out from the town. but the only boat in view was an upside-down rowboat abandoned on the rocks beneath the inn, its bottom thoroughly rotted out. they're gone, arya said, dejected. what would they do now? there's an inn, lommy said, when the others rode up. do you think they left any food? or ale? let's go see, hot pie suggested. never you mind about no inn, snapped woth. yoren said we're to find a boat. they took the boats. somehow arya knew it was true; they could search the whole town, and they'd find no more than the upside-down rowboat. despondent, she climbed off her horse and knelt by the lake. the water lapped softly around her legs. a few lantern bugs were coming out, their little lights blinking on and off. the green water was warm as tears, but there was no salt in it. it tasted of summer and mud and growing things. arya plunged her face down into it to wash off the dust and dirt and sweat of the day. when she leaned back the trickles ran down the back of her neck and under her collar. they felt good. she wished she could take off her clothes and swim, gliding through the warm water like an skinny pink otter. maybe she could swim all the way to winterfell. woth was shouting at her to help search, so she did, peering into boathouses and sheds while her horse grazed along the shore. they found some sails, some nails, buckets of tar gone hard, and a mother cat with a litter of new-born kittens. but no boats. the town was as dark as any forest when yoren and the others reappeared. tower's empty, he said. lord's gone off to fight maybe, or to get his smallfolk to safety, no telling. not a horse or pig left in town, but we'll eat. saw a goose running loose, and some chickens, and there's good fish in the gods eye. the boats are gone, arya reported. we could patch the bottom of that rowboat, said koss. might do for four o' us, yoren said. there's nails, lommy pointed out. and there's trees all around. we could build us all boats. yoren spat. you know anything 'bout boat-building, dyer's boy? lommy looked blank. a raft, suggested gendry. anyone can build a raft, and long poles for pushing. yoren looked thoughtful. lake's too deep to pole across, but if we stayed to the shallows near shore... it'd mean leaving the wagons. might be that's best. i'll sleep on it. can we stay at the inn? lommy asked. we'll stay in the holdfast, with the gates barred, the old man said. i like the feel o' stone walls about me when i sleep. arya could not keep quiet. we shouldn't stay here, she blurted. the people didn't. they all ran off, even their lord. arry's scared, lommy announced, braying laughter. i'm not, she snapped back, but they were. smart boy, said yoren. thing is, the folks who lived here were at war, like it or no. we're not. night's watch takes no part, so no man's our enemy. and no man's our friend, she thought, but this time she held her tongue. lommy and the rest were looking at her, and she did not want to seem craven in front of them. the holdfast gates were studded with iron nails. within, they found a pair of iron bars the size of saplings, with post holes in the ground and metal brackets on the gate. when they slotted the bars through the brackets, they made a huge x brace. it was no red keep, yoren announced when they'd explored the holdfast top to bottom, but it was better than most, and should do for a night well enough. the walls were rough unmortared stone ten feet high, with a wooden catwalk inside the battlements. there was a postern gate to the north, and gerren discovered a trap under the straw in the old wooden barn, leading to a narrow, winding tunnel. he followed it a long way under the earth and came out by the lake. yoren had them roll a wagon on top of the trap, to make certain no one came in that way. he divided them into three watches, and sent tarber, kurz, and cutjack off to the abandoned towerhouse to keep an eye out from on high. kurz had a hunting horn to sound if danger threatened. they drove their wagons and animals inside and barred the gates behind them. the barn was a ramshackle thing, large enough to hold half the animals in the town. the haven, where the townfolk would shelter in times of trouble, was even larger, low and long and built of stone, with a thatched roof. koss went out the postern gate and brought the goose back, and two chickens as well, and yoren allowed a cookfire. there was a big kitchen inside the holdfast, though all the pots and kettles had been taken. gendry, dobber, and arya drew cook duty. dobber told arya to pluck the fowl while gendry split wood. why can't i split the wood? she asked, but no one listened. sullenly, she set to plucking a chicken while yoren sat on the end of the bench sharpening the edge of his dirk with a whetstone. when the food was ready, arya ate a chicken leg and a bit of onion. no one talked much, not even lommy. gendry went off by himself afterward, polishing his helm with a look on his face like he wasn't even there. the crying girl whimpered and wept, but when hot pie offered her a bit of goose she gobbled it down and looked for more. arya drew second watch, so she found a straw pallet in the haven. sleep did not come easy, so she borrowed yoren's stone and set to honing needle. syrio forel had said that a dull blade was like a lame horse. hot pie squatted on the pallet beside her, watching her work. where 'd you get a good sword like that? he asked. when he saw the look she gave him, he raised his hands defensively. i never said you stole it, i just wanted to know where you got it, is all. my brother gave it to me, she muttered. i never knew you had no brother. arya paused to scratch under her shirt. there were fleas in the straw, though she couldn't see why a few more would bother her. i have lots of brothers. you do? are they bigger than you, or littler? i shouldn't be talking like this. yoren said i should keep my mouth shut. bigger, she lied. they have swords too, big longswords, and they showed me how to kill people who bother me. i was talking, not bothering. hot pie went off and let her alone and arya curled up on her pallet. she could hear the crying girl from the far side of the haven. i wish she'd just be quiet. why does she have to cry all the time? she must have slept, though she never remembered closing her eyes. she dreamed a wolf was howling, and the sound was so terrible that it woke her at once. arya sat up on her pallet with her heart thumping. hot pie, wake up. she scrambled to her feet. woth, gendry, didn't you hear? she pulled on a boot. all around her, men and boys stirred and crawled from their pallets. what's wrong? hot pie asked. hear what? gendry wanted to know. any had a bad dream, someone else said. no, i heard it, she insisted. a wolf. arry has wolves in his head, sneered lommy. let them howl, gerren said, they're out there, we're in here. woth agreed. never saw no wolf could storm a holdfast. hot pie was saying, i never heard nothing. it was a wolf, she shouted at them as she yanked on her second boot. something's wrong, someone's coming, get up! before they could hoot her down again, the sound came shuddering through the night-only it was no wolf this time, it was kurz blowing his hunting horn, sounding danger. in a heartbeat, all of them were pulling on clothes and snatching for whatever weapons they owned. arya ran for the gate as the horn sounded again. as she dashed past the barn, biter threw himself furiously against his chains, and jaqen hghar called out from the back of their wagon. boy! sweet boy! is it war, red war? boy, free us. a man can fight. boy! she ignored him and plunged on. by then she could hear horses and shouts beyond the wall. she scrambled up onto the catwalk. the parapets were a bit too high and arya a bit too short; she had to wedge her toes into the holes between the stones to see over. for a moment she thought the town was full of lantern bugs. then she realized they were men with torches, galloping between the houses. she saw a roof go up, flames licking at the belly of the night with hot orange tongues as the thatch caught. another followed, and then another, and soon there were fires blazing everywhere. gendry climbed up beside her, wearing his helm. how many? arya tried to count, but they were riding too fast, torches spinning through the air as they flung them. a hundred, she said. two hundred, i don't know. over the roar of the flames, she could hear shouts. they'll come for us soon. there, gendry said, pointing. a column of riders moved between the burning buildings toward the holdfast. firelight glittered off metal helms and spattered their mail and plate with orange and yellow highlights. one carried a banner on a tall lance. she thought it was red, but it was hard to tell in the night, with the fires roaring all around. everything seemed red or black or orange. the fire leapt from one house to another. arya saw a tree consumed, the flames creeping across its branches until it stood against the night in robes of living orange. everyone was awake now, manning the catwalks or struggling with the frightened animals below. she could hear yoren shouting commands. something bumped against her leg, and she glanced down to discover the crying girl clutching her. get away! she wrenched her leg free. what are you doing up here? run and hide someplace, you stupid. she shoved the girl away. the riders reined up before the gates. you in the holdfast! shouted a knight in a tall helm with a spiked crest. open, in the name of the king! aye, and which king is that? old reysen yelled back down, before woth cuffed him into silence. yoren climbed the battlement beside the gate, his faded black cloak tied to a wooden staff. you men hold down here! he shouted. the townfolk's gone. and who are you, old man? one of lord beric's cravens? called the knight in the spiked helm, if that fat fool thoros is in there, ask him how he likes these fires. got no such man here, yoren shouted back. only some lads for the watch. got no part o' your war. he hoisted up the staff, so they could all see the color of his cloak. have a look. that's black, for the night's watch. or black for house dondarrion, called the man who bore the enemy banner. arya could see its colors more clearly now in the light of the burning town: a golden lion on red. lord beric's sigil is a purple lightning bolt on a black field. suddenly arya remembered the morning she had thrown the orange in sansa's face and gotten juice all over her stupid ivory silk gown. there had been some southron lordling at the tourney, her sister's stupid friend jeyne was in love with him. he had a lightning bolt on his shield and her father had sent him out to behead the hound's brother. it seemed a thousand years ago now, something that had happened to a different person in a different life... to arya stark the hand's daughter, not arry the orphan boy. how would arry know lords and such? are you blind, man? yoren waved his staff back and forth, making the cloak ripple. you see a bloody lightning bolt? by night all banners look black, the knight in the spiked helm observed. open, or we'll know you for outlaws in league with the king's enemies. yoren spat. who's got your command? i do. the reflections of burning houses glimmered dully on the armor of his warhorse as the others parted to let him pass. he was a stout man with a manticore on his shield, and ornate scrollwork crawling across his steel breastplate. through the open visor of his helm, a face pale and piggy peered up. ser amory lorch, bannerman to lord tywin larmister of casterly rock, the hand of the king. the true king, joffrey. he had a high, thin voice. in his name, i command you to open these gates. all around them, the town burned. the night air was full of smoke, and the drifting red embers outnumbered the stars. yoren scowled. don't see the need. do what you want to the town, it's naught to me, but leave us be. we're no foes to you. look with your eyes, arya wanted to shout at the men below. can't they see we're no lords or knights? she whispered. i don't think they care, any, gendry whispered back. and she looked at ser amory's face, the way syrio had taught her to look, and she saw that he was right. if you are no traitors, open your gates, ser amory called. we'll make certain you're telling it true and be on our way. yoren was chewing sour leaf. told you, no one here but us. you got my word on that. the knight in the spiked helm laughed. the crow gives us his word. you lost, old man? mocked one of the spearmen. the wall's a long way north o' here. i command you once more, in king joffrey's name, to prove the loyalty you profess and open these gates, said ser amory. for a long moment yoren considered, chewing. then he spat. don't think i will. so be it. you defy the king's command, and so proclaim yourselves rebels, black cloaks or no. got me young boys in here, yoren shouted down. young boys and old men die the same. ser amory raised a lanquid fist, and a spear came hurtling from the fire-bright shadows behind. yoren must have been the target, but it was woth beside him who was hit. the spearhead went in his throat and exploded out the back of his neck, dark and wet. woth grabbed at the shaft, and fell boneless from the walk. storm the walls and kill them all, ser amory said in a bored voice. more spears flew. arya yanked down hot pie by the back of his tunic. from outside came the rattle of armor, the scrape of swords on scabbards, the banging of spears on shields, mingled with curses and the hoofbeats of racing horses. a torch sailed spinning above their heads, trailing fingers of fire as it thumped down in the dirt of the yard. blades! yoren shouted. spread apart, defend the wall wherever they hit. koss, urreg, hold the postern. lommy, pull that spear out of woth and get up where he was. hot pie dropped his shortsword when he tried to unsheath it. arya shoved the blade back into his hand. i don't know how to swordfight, he said, white-eyed. it's easy, arya said, but the lie died in her throat as a hand grasped the top of the parapet. she saw it by the light of the burning town, so clear that it was as if time had stopped. the fingers were blunt, callused, wiry black hairs grew between the knuckles, there was dirt under the nail of the thumb. fear cuts deeper than swords, she remembered as the top of a pothelm loomed up behind the hand. she slashed down hard, and needle's castle-forged steel bit into the grasping fingers between the knuckles. winterfell! she screamed. blood spurted, fingers flew, and the helmed face vanished as suddenly as it had appeared. behind! hot pie yelled. arya whirled. the second man was bearded and helmetless, his dirk between his teeth to leave both hands free for climbing. as he swung his leg over the parapet, she drove her point at his eyes. needle never touched him; he reeled backward and fell. i hope he falls on his face and cuts off his tongue. watch them, not me! she screamed at hot pie. the next time someone tried to climb their part of the wall, the boy hacked at his hands with his swordshort until the man dropped away. ser amory had no ladders, but the holdfast walls were rough-cut and unmortared, easy to climb, and there seemed to be no end to the foes. for each one arya cut or stabbed or shoved back, another was coming over the wall. the knight in the spiked helm reached the rampart, but yoren tangled his black banner around his spike, and forced the point of his dirk through his armor while the man was fighting the cloth. every time arya looked up, more torches were flying, trailing long tongues of flame that lingered behind her eyes. she saw a gold lion on a red banner and thought of joffrey, wishing he was here so she could drive needle through his sneery face. when four men assaulted the gate with axes, koss shot them down with arrows, one by one. dobber wrestled a man off the walk, and lommy smashed his head with a rock before he could rise, and hooted until he saw the knife in dobber' s belly and realized he wouldn't be getting up either. arya jumped over a dead boy no older than jon, lying with his arm cut off. she didn't think she'd done it, but she wasn't sure. she heard qyle beg for mercy before a knight with a wasp on his shield smashed his face in with a spiked mace. everything smelled of blood and smoke and iron and piss, but after a time it seemed like that was only one smell. she never saw how the skinny man got over the wall, but when he did she fell on him with gendry and hot pie. gendry's sword shattered on the man's helm, tearing it off his head. underneath he was bald and scared-looking, with missing teeth and a speckly grey beard, but even as she was feeling sorry for him she was killing him, shouting, winterfefl! winterfell! while hot pie screamed hot pie! beside her as he hacked at the man's scrawny neck. when the skinny man was dead, gendry stole his sword and leapt down into the yard to fight some more. arya looked past him, and saw steel shadows running through the holdfast, firelight shining off mail and blades, and she knew that they'd gotten over the wall somewhere, or broken through at the postern. she jumped down beside gendry, landing the way syrio had taught her. the night rang to the clash of steel and the cries of the wounded and dying. for a moment arya stood uncertain, not knowing which way to go. death was all around her. and then yoren was there, shaking her, screaming in her face. boy! he yelled, the way he always yelled it. get out, it's done, we've lost. herd up all you can, you and him and the others, the boys, you get them out. now! how? arya said. that trap, he screamed. under the barn. quick as that he was gone, off to fight, sword in hand. arya grabbed gendry by the arm. he said go, she shouted, the barn, the way out. through the slits of his helm, the bull's eyes shone with reflected fire. he nodded. they called hot pie down from the wall and found lommy greenhands where he lay bleeding from a spear thrust through his calf. they found gerren too, but he was hurt too bad to move. as they were running toward the barn, arya spied the crying girl sitting in the middle of the chaos, surrounded by smoke and slaughter. she grabbed her by the hand and pulled her to her feet as the others raced ahead. the girl wouldn't walk, even when slapped. arya dragged her with her right hand while she held needle in the left. ahead, the night was a sullen red. the barn's on fire, she thought. flames were licking up its sides from where a torch had fallen on straw, and she could hear the screaming of the animals trapped within. hot pie stepped out of the barn. any, come on! lommy's gone, leave her if she won't come! stubbornly, arya dragged all the harder, pulling the crying girl along. hot pie scuttled back inside, abandoning them... but gendry came back, the fire shining so bright on his polished helm that the horns seemed to glow orange. he ran to them, and hoisted the crying girl up over his shoulder. run! rushing through the barn doors was like running into a furnace. the air was swirling with smoke, the back wall a sheet of fire ground to roof. their horses and donkeys were kicking and rearing and screaming. the poor animals, arya thought. then she saw the wagon, and the three men manacled to its bed. biter was flinging himself against the chains, blood running down his arms from where the irons clasped his wrists. rorge screamed curses, kicking at the wood. boy! called jaqen h'ghar. sweet boy! the open trap was only a few feet ahead, but the fire was spreading fast, consuming the old wood and dry straw faster than she would have believed. arya remembered the hound's horrible burned face. tunnel's narrow, gendry shouted. how do we get her through? pull her, arya said. push her. good boys, kind boys, called jaqen h'ghar, coughing. get these fucking chains off! rorge screamed. gendry ignored them. you go first, then her, then me. hurry, it's a long way. when you split the firewood, arya remembered, where did you leave the axe? out by the haven. he spared a glance for the chained men. i'd save the donkeys first. there's no time. you take her! she yelled. you get her out! you do it! the fire beat at her back with hot red wings as she fled the burning barn. it felt blessedly cool outside, but men were dying all around her. she saw koss throw down his blade to yield, and she saw them kill him where he stood. smoke was everywhere. there was no sign of yoren, but the axe was where gendry had left it, by the woodpile outside the haven. as she wrenched it free, a mailed hand grabbed her arm. spinning, arya drove the head of the axe hard between his legs. she never saw his face, only the dark blood seeping between the links of his hauberk. going back into that barn was the hardest thing she ever did. smoke was pouring out the open door like a writhing black snake, and she could hear the screams of the poor animals inside, donkeys and horses and men. she chewed her lip, and darted through the doors, crouched low where the smoke wasn't quite so thick. a donkey was caught in a ring of fire, shrieking in terror and pain. she could smell the stench of burning hair. the roof was gone up too, and things were falling down, pieces of flaming wood and bits of straw and hay. arya put a hand over her mouth and nose. she couldn't see the wagon for the smoke, but she could still hear biter screaming. she crawled toward the sound. and then a wheel was looming over her. the wagon jumped and moved a half foot when biter threw himself against his chains again. jaqen saw her, but it was too hard to breathe, let alone talk. she threw the axe into the wagon. rorge caught it and lifted it over his head, rivers of sooty sweat pouring down his noseless face. arya was running, coughing. she heard the steel crash through the old wood, and again, again. an instant later came a crack as loud as thunder, and the bottom of the wagon came ripping loose in an explosion of splinters. arya rolled headfirst into the tunnel and dropped five feet. she got dirt in her mouth but she didn't care, the taste was fine, the taste was mud and water and worms and life. under the earth the air was cool and dark. above was nothing but blood and roaring red and choking smoke and the screams of dying horses. she moved her belt around so needle would not be in her way, and began to crawl. a dozen feet down the tunnel she heard the sound, like the roar of some monstrous beast, and a cloud of hot smoke and black dust came billowing up behind her, smelling of hell. arya held her breath and kissed the mud on the floor of the tunnel and cried. for whom, she could not say. when she climbed all the way up to the highest branch, arya could see chimneys poking through the trees. thatched roofs clustered along the shore of the lake and the small stream that emptied into it, and a wooden pier jutted out into the water beside a low long building with a slate roof. she skinnied farther out, until the branch began to sag under her weight. no boats were tied to the pier, but she could see thin tendrils of smoke rising from some of the chimneys, and part of a wagon jutting out behind a stable. someone's there. arya chewed her lip. all the other places they'd come upon had been empty and desolate. farms, villages, castles, septs, barns, it made no matter, if it could burn, the lannisters had burned it; if it could die, they'd killed it. they had even set the woods ablaze where they could, though the leaves were still green and wet from recent rains, and the fires had not spread. they would have burned the lake if they could have, gendry had said, and arya knew he was right, on the night of their escape, the flames of the burning town had shimmered so brightly on the water that it had seemed that the lake was afire. when they finally summoned the nerve to steal back into the ruins the next night, nothing remained but blackened stones, the hollow shells of houses, and corpses. in some places wisps of pale smoke still rose from the ashes. hot pie had pleaded with them not to go back, and lommy called them fools and swore that ser amory would catch them and kill them too, but lorch and his men had long gone by the time they reached the holdfast. they found the gates broken down, the walls partly demolished, and the inside strewn with the unburied dead. one look was enough for gendry. they're killed, every one, he said. and dogs have been at them too, look. or wolves. dogs, wolves, it makes no matter. it's done here. but arya would not leave until they found yoren. they couldn't have killed him, she told herself, he was too hard and tough, and a brother of the night's watch besides. she said as much to gendry as they searched among the corpses. the axe blow that had killed him had split his skull apart, but the great tangled beard could be no one else's, or the garb, patched and unwashed and so faded it was more grey than black. ser amory lorch had given no more thought to burying his own dead than to those he had murdered, and the corpses of four lannister men-at-arms were heaped near yoren's. arya wondered how many it had taken to bring him down. he was going to take me home, she thought as they dug the old man's hole. there were too many dead to bury them all, but yoren at least must have a grave, arya had insisted. he was going to bring me safe to winterfell, he promised. part of her wanted to cry. the other part wanted to kick him. it was gendry who thought of the lord's towerhouse and the three that yoren had sent to hold it. they had come under attack as well, but the round tower had only one entry, a second-story door reached by a ladder. once that had been pulled inside, ser amory' s men could not get at them. the lannisters had piled brush around the tower's base and set it afire, but the stone would not burn, and lorch did not have the patience to starve them out. cutjack opened the door at gendry's shout, and when kurz said they'd be better pressing on north than going back, arya had clung to the hope that she still might reach winterfell. well, this village was no winterfell, but those thatched roofs promised warmth and shelter and maybe even food, if they were bold enough to risk them. unless it's lorch there. he had horses; he would have traveled faster than us. she watched from the tree for a long time, hoping she might see something; a man, a horse, a banner, anything that would help her know. a few times she glimpsed motion, but the buildings were so far off it was hard to be certain. once, very clearly, she heard the whinny of a horse. the air was full of birds, crows mostly. from afar, they were no larger than flies as they wheeled and flapped above the thatched roofs. to the east, gods eye was a sheet of sun- hammered blue that filled half the world. some days, as they made their slow way up the muddy shore (gendry wanted no part of any roads, and even hot pie and lommy saw the sense in that), arya felt as though the lake were calling her. she wanted to leap into those placid blue waters, to feel clean again, to swim and splash and bask in the sun. but she dare not take off her clothes where the others could see, not even to wash them. at the end of the day she would often sit on a rock and dangle her feet in the cool water. she had finally thrown away her cracked and rotted shoes. walking barefoot was hard at first, but the blisters had finally broken, the cuts had healed, and her soles had turned to leather. the mud was nice between her toes, and she liked to feel the earth underfoot when she walked. from up here, she could see a small wooded island off to the northeast. thirty yards from shore, three black swans were gliding over the water, so serene... no one had told them that war had come, and they cared nothing for burning towns and butchered men. she stared at them with yearning. part of her wanted to be a swan. the other part wanted to eat one. she had broken her fast on some acorn paste and a handful of bugs. bugs weren't so bad when you got used to them. worms were worse, but still not as bad as the pain in your belly after days without food. finding bugs was easy, all you had to do was kick over a rock. arya had eaten a bug once when she was little, just to make sansa screech, so she hadn't been afraid to eat another. weasel wasn't either, but hot pie retched up the beetle he tried to swallow, and lommy and gendry wouldn't even try. yesterday gendry had caught a frog and shared it with lommy, and, a few days before, hot pie had found blackberries and stripped the bush bare, but mostly they had been living on water and acorns. kurz had told them how to use rocks and make a kind of acorn paste, it tasted awful. she wished the poacher hadn't died. he'd known more about the woods than all the rest of them together, but he'd taken an arrow through the shoulder pulling in the ladder at the towerhouse. tarber had packed it with mud and moss from the lake, and for a day or two kurz swore the wound was nothing, even though the flesh of his throat was turning dark while angry red welts crept up his jaw and down his chest. then one morning he couldn't find the strength to get up, and by the next he was dead. they buried him under a mound of stones, and cutjack had claimed his sword and hunting horn, while tarber helped himself to bow and boots and knife. they'd taken it all when they left. at first they thought the two had just gone hunting, that they'd soon return with game and feed them all. but they waited and waited, until finally gendry made them move on. maybe tarber and cutjack figured they would stand a better chance without a gaggle of orphan boys to herd along. they probably would too, but that didn't stop her hating them for leaving. beneath her tree, hot pie barked like a dog. kurz had told them to use animal sounds to signal to each other. an old poacher's trick, he'd said, but he'd died before he could teach them how to make the sounds right. hot pie's bird calls were awful. his dog was better, but not much. arya hopped from the high branch to one beneath it, her hands out for balance. a water dancer never falls. lightfoot, her toes curled tight around the branch, she walked a few feet, hopped down to a larger limb, then swung hand over hand through the tangle of leaves until she reached the trunk. the bark was rough beneath her fingers, against her toes. she descended quickly, jumping down the final six feet, rolling when she landed. gendry gave her a hand to pull her up. you were up there a long time. what could you see? a fishing village, just a little place, north along the shore. twenty-six thatch roofs and one slate, i counted. i saw part of a wagon. someone's there. at the sound of her voice, weasel came creeping out from the bushes. lommy had named her that. he said she looked like a weasel, which wasn't true, but they couldn't keep on calling her the crying girl after she finally stopped crying. her mouth was filthy. arya hoped she hadn't been eating mud again. did you see people? asked gendry. mostly just roofs, arya admitted, but some chimneys were smoking, and i heard a horse. the weasel put her arms around her leg, clutching tight. sometimes she did that now. if there's people, there's food, hot pie said, too loudly. gendry was always telling him to be more quiet, but it never did any good. might be they'd give us some. might be they'd kill us too, gendry said. not if we yielded, hot pie said hopefully. now you sound like lommy. lommy greenhands sat propped up between two thick roots at the foot of an oak. a spear had taken him through his left calf during the fight at the holdfast. by the end of the next day, he had to limp along one-legged with an arm around gendry, and now he couldn't even do that. they'd hacked branches off trees to make a litter for him, but it was slow, hard work carrying him along, and he whimpered every time they jounced him. we have to yield, he said. that's what yoren should have done. he should have opened the gates like they said. arya was sick of lommy going on about how yoren should have yielded. it was all he talked about when they carried him, that and his leg and his empty belly. hot pie agreed. they told yoren to open the gates, they told him in the king's name. you have to do what they tell you in the king's name. it was that stinky old man's fault. if he'd of yielded, they would have left us be. gendry frowned. knights and lordlings, they take each other captive and pay ransoms, but they don't care if the likes of you yield or not. he turned to arya. what else did you see? if it's a fishing village, they'd sell us fish, i bet, said hot pie. the lake teemed with fresh fish, but they had nothing to catch them with. arya had tried to use her hands, the way she'd seen koss do, but fish were quicker than pigeons and the water played tricks on her eyes. i don't know about fish. arya tugged at the weasel's matted hair, thinking it might be best to hack it off. there's crows down by the water. something's dead there. fish, washed up on shore, hot pie said. if the crows eat it, i bet we could. we should catch some crows, we could eat them, said lommy. we could make a fire and roast them like chickens. gendry looked fierce when he scowled. his beard had grown in thick and black as briar. i said, no fires. lommy's hungry, hot pie whined, and i am too. we're all hungry, said arya. you're not, lommy spat from the ground. worm breath. arya could have kicked him in his wound. i said i'd dig worms for you too, if you wanted. lommy made a disgusted face. if it wasn't for my leg, i'd hunt us some boars. some boars, she mocked. you need a boarspear to hunt boars, and horses and dogs, and men to flush the boar from its lair. her father had hunted boar in the wolfswood with robb and jon. once he even took bran, but never arya, even though she was older. septa mordane said boar hunting was not for ladies, and mother only promised that when she was older she might have her own hawk. she was older now, but if she had a hawk she'd eat it. what do you know about hunting boars? said hot pie. more than you. gendry was in no mood to hear it. quiet, both of you, i need to think what to do. he always looked pained when he tried to think, like it hurt him something fierce. yield, lommy said. i told you to shut up about the yielding. we don't even know who's in there. maybe we can steal some food. lommy could steal, if it wasn't for his leg, said hot pie. he was a thief in the city. a bad thief, arya said, or he wouldn't have got caught. gendry squinted up at the sun. evenfall will be the best time to sneak in. i'll go scout come dark. no, i'll go, arya said. you're too noisy. gendry got that look on his face. we'll both go. arry should go, said lommy. he's sneakier than you are. we'll both go, i said. but what if you don't come back? hot pie can't carry me by himself, you know he can't... and there's wolves, hot pie said. i heard them last night, when i had the watch. they sounded close. arya had heard them too. she'd been asleep in the branches of an elm, but the howling had woken her. she'd sat awake for a good hour, listening to them, prickles creeping up her spine. and you won't even let us have a fire to keep them off, hot pie said. it's not right, leaving us for the wolves. no one is leaving you, gendry said in disgust. lommy has his spear if the wolves come, and you'll be with him. we're just going to go see, that's all; we're coming back. whoever it is, you should yield to them, lommy whined. i need some potion for my leg, it hurts bad. if we see any leg potion, we'll bring it, gendry said. arry, let's go, i want to get near before the sun is down. hot pie, you keep weasel here, i don't want her following. last time she kicked me. i'll kick you if you don't keep her here. without waiting for an answer, gendry donned his steel helm and walked off. arya had to scamper to keep up. gendry was five years older and a foot taller than she was, and long of leg as well. for a while he said nothing, just plowed on through the trees with an angry look on his face, making too much noise. but finally he stopped and said, i think lommy's going to die. she was not surprised. kurz had died of his wound, and he'd been a lot stronger than lommy. whenever it was arya's turn to help carry him, she could feel how warm his skin was, and smell the stink off his leg. maybe we could find a maester... you only find maesters in castles, and even if we found one, he wouldn't dirty his hands on the likes of lommy. gendry ducked under a low-hanging limb. that's not true. maester luwin would have helped anyone who came to him, she was certain. he's going to die, and the sooner he does it, the better for the rest of us. we should just leave him, like he says. if it was you or me hurt, you know he'd leave us. they scrambled down a steep cut and up the other side, using roots for handholds. i'm sick of carrying him, and i'm sick of all his talk about yielding too. if he could stand up, i'd knock his teeth in. lommy's no use to anyone. that crying girl's no use either. you leave weasel alone, she's just scared and hungry is all. arya glanced back, but the girl was not following for once. hot pie must have grabbed her, like gendry had told him. she's no use, gendry repeated stubbornly. her and hot pie and lommy, they're slowing us down, and they're going to get us killed. you're the only one of the bunch who's good for anything. even if you are a girl. arya froze in her steps. i'm not a girl! yes you are. do you think i'm as stupid as they are? no, you're stupider. the night's watch doesn't take girls, everyone knows that. that's true. i don't know why yoren brought you, but he must have had some reason. you're still a girl. i am not! then pull out your cock and take a piss. go on. i don't need to take a piss. if i wanted to i could. liar. you can't take out your cock because you don't have one. i never noticed before when there were thirty of us, but you always go off in the woods to make your water. you don't see hot pie doing that, nor me neither. if you're not a girl, you must be some eunuch. you're the eunuch. you know i'm not. gendry smiled. you want me to take out my cock and prove it? i don't have anything to hide. yes you do, arya blurted, desperate to escape the subject of the cock she didn't have. those gold cloaks were after you at the inn, and you won't tell us why. i wish i knew. i think yoren knew, but he never told me. why did you think they were after you, though? arya bit her lip. she remembered what yoren had said, the day he had hacked off her hair. this lot, half o' them would turn you over to the queen quick as spit for a pardon and maybe a few silvers. the other half d do the same, only they'd rape you first. only gendry was differ- ent, the queen wanted him too. i'll tell you if you'll tell me, she said warily. i would if i knew, arry... is that really what you're called, or do you have some girl's name? arya glared at the gnarled root by her feet. she realized that the pretense was done. gendry knew, and she had nothing in her pants to convince him otherwise. she could draw needle and kill him where he stood, or else trust him. she wasn't certain she'd be able to kill him, even if she tried; he had his own sword, and he was a lot stronger. all that was left was the truth. lommy and hot pie can't know, she said. they won't, he swore. not from me. arya. she raised her eyes to his. my name is arya. of house stark. of house it took him a moment before he said, the king's hand was named stark. the one they killed for a traitor. he was never a traitor. he was my father. gendry's eyes widened. so that's why you thought. she nodded. yoren was taking me home to winterfell. i... you're highborn then, a... you'll be a lady... arya looked down at her ragged clothes and bare feet, all cracked and callused. she saw the dirt under her nails, the scabs on her elbows, the scratches on her hands. septa mordane wouldn't even know me, i bet. sansa might, but she'd pretend not to. my mother's a lady, and my sister, but i never was. yes you were. you were a lord's daughter and you lived in a castle, didn't you? and you... gods be good, i never... all of a sudden gendry seemed uncertain, almost afraid. all that about cocks, i never should have said that. and i been pissing in front of you and everything, 1 1 beg your pardon, m'lady. stop that! arya hissed. was he mocking her? i know my courtesies, m'lady, gendry said, stubborn as ever. whenever highborn girls came into the shop with their fathers, my master told me i was to bend the knee, and speak only when they spoke to me, and call them m'lady. if you start calling me m'lady, even hot pie is going to notice. and you better keep on pissing the same way too. as m'lady commands. arya slammed his chest with both hands. he tripped over a stone and sat down with a thump. what kind of lord's daughter are you? he said, laughing. this kind. she kicked him in the side, but it only made him laugh harder. you laugh all you like. i'm going to see who's in the village. the sun had already fallen below the trees; dusk would be on them in no time at all. for once it was gendry who had to hurry after. you smell that? she asked. he sniffed the air. rotten fish? you know it's not. we better be careful. i'll go around west, see if there's some road. there must be if you saw a wagon. you take the shore. if you need help, bark like a dog. that's stupid. if i need help, i'll shout help. she darted away, bare feet silent in the grass. when she glanced back over her shoulder, he was watching her with that pained look on his face that meant he was thinking. he's probably thinking that he shouldn't be letting m'lady go stealing food. arya just knew he was going to be stupid now. the smell grew stronger as she got closer to the village. it did not smell like rotten fish to her. this stench was ranker, fouler. she wrinkled her nose. where the trees began to thin, she used the undergrowth, slipping from bush to bush quiet as a shadow. every few yards she stopped to listen. the third time, she heard horses, and a man's voice as well. and the smell got worse. dead man's stink, that's what it is. she had smelled it before, with yoren and the others. a dense thicket of brambles grew south of the village. by the time she reached it, the long shadows of sunset had begun to fade, and the lantern bugs were coming out. she could see thatched roofs just beyond the hedge. she crept along until she found a gap and squirmed through on her belly, keeping well hidden until she saw what made the smell. beside the gently lapping waters of gods eye, a long gibbet of raw green wood had been thrown up, and things that had once been men dangled there, their feet in chains, while crows pecked at their flesh and flapped from corpse to corpse. for every crow there were a hundred flies. when the wind blew off the lake, the nearest corpse twisted on its chain, ever so slightly. the crows had eaten most of its face, and something else had been at it as well, something much larger. throat and chest had been torn apart, and glistening green entrails and ribbons of ragged flesh dangled from where the belly had been opened, one arm had been ripped right off the shoulder; arya saw the bones a few feet away, gnawed and cracked, picked clean of meat. she made herself look at the next man and the one beyond him and the one beyond him, telling herself she was hard as a stone. corpses all, so savaged and decayed that it took her a moment to realize they had been stripped before they were hanged. they did not look like naked people; they hardly looked like people at all. the crows had eaten their eyes, and sometimes their faces. of the sixth in the long row, nothing remained but a single leg, still tangled in its chains, swaying with each breeze. fear cuts deeper than swords. dead men could not hurt her, but whoever had killed them could. well beyond the gibbet, two men in mail hauberks stood leaning on their spears in front of the long low building by the water, the one with the slate roof. a pair of tall poles had been driven into the muddy ground in front of it, banners drooping from each staff. one looked red and one paler, white or yellow maybe, but both were limp and with the dusk settling, she could not even be certain that red one was lannister crimson. i don't need to see the lion, i can see all the dead people, who else would it be but lannisters? then there was a shout. the two spearmen turned at the cry, and a third man came into view, shoving a captive before him. it was growing too dark to make out faces, but the prisoner was wearing a shiny steel helm, and when arya saw the horns she knew it was gendry. you stupid stupid stupid stupid! she thought. if he'd been here she would have kicked him again. the guards were talking loudly, but she was too far away to make out the words, especially with the crows gabbling and flapping closer to hand. one of the spearmen snatched the helm off gendry' s head and asked him a question, but he must not have liked the answer, because he smashed him across the face with the butt of his spear and knocked him down. the one who'd captured him gave him a kick, while the second spearman was trying on the bull's-head helm. finally they pulled him to his feet and marched him off toward the storehouse. when they opened the heavy wooden doors, a small boy darted out, but one of the guards grabbed his arm and flung him back inside. arya heard sobbing from inside the building, and then a shriek so loud and full of pain that it made her bite her lip. the guards shoved gendry inside with the boy and barred the doors behind them, just then, a breath of wind came sighing off the lake, and the banners stirred and lifted. the one on the tall staff bore the golden lion, as she'd feared. on the other, three sleek black shapes ran across a field as yellow as butter. dogs, she thought. arya had seen those dogs before, but where? it didn't matter. the only thing that mattered was that they had gendry. even if he was stubborn and stupid, she had to get him out. she wondered if they knew that the queen wanted him. one of the guards took off his helm and donned gendry' s instead. it made her angry to see him wearing it, but she knew there was nothing she could do to stop him. she thought she heard more screams from inside the windowless storehouse, muffled by the masonry, but it was hard to be certain. she stayed long enough to see the guard changed, and much more besides. men came and went. they led their horses down to the stream to drink. a hunting party returned from the wood, carrying a deer's carcass slung from a pole. she watched them clean and gut it and build a cookfire on the far side of the stream, and the smell of cooking meat mingled queerly with the stench of corruption. her empty belly roiled and she thought she might retch. the prospect of food brought other men out of the houses, near all of them wearing bits of mail or boiled leather. when the deer was cooked, the choicest portions were carried to one of the houses. she thought that the dark might let her crawl close and free gendry, but the guards kindled torches off the cookfire. a squire brought meat and bread to the two guarding the storehouse, and later two more men joined them and they all passed a skin of wine from hand to hand. when it was empty the others left, but the two guards remained, leaning on their spears. arya's arms and legs were stiff when she finally wriggled out from under the briar into the dark of the wood. it was a black night, with a thin sliver of moon appearing and disappearing as the clouds blew past. silent as a shadow, she told herself as she moved through the trees. in this darkness she dared not run, for fear of tripping on some unseen root or losing her way. on her left gods eye lapped calmly against its shores, on her right a wind sighed through the branches, and leaves rustled and stirred. far off, she heard the howling of wolves. lommy and hot pie almost shit themselves when she stepped out of the trees behind them. quiet, she told them, putting an arm around weasel when the little girl came running up. hot pie stared at her with big eyes. we thought you left us. he had his shortsword in hand, the one yoren had taken off the gold cloak. i was scared you was a wolf. where's the bull? asked lommy. they caught him, arya whispered. we have to get him out. hot pie, you got to help. we'll sneak up and kill the guards, and then i'll open the door. hot pie and lommy exchanged a look. how many? i couldn't count, arya admitted. twenty at least, but only two on the door. hot pie looked as if he were going to cry. we can't fight twenty. you only need to fight one. i'll do the other and we'll get gendry out and run. we should yield, lommy said. just go in and yield. arya shook her head stubbornly. then just leave him, arry, lommy pleaded. they don't know about the rest of us. if we hide, they'll go away, you know they will. it's not our fault gendry's captured. you're stupid, lommy, arya said angrily. you'll die if we don't get gendry out. who's going to carry you? you and hot pie. all the time, with no one else to help? we'll never do it. gendry was the strong one. anyhow, i don't care what you say, i'm going back for him. she looked at hot pie. are you coming? hot pie glanced at lommy, at arya, at lommy again. i'll come, he said reluctantly. lommy, you keep weasel here. he grabbed the little girl by the hand and pulled her close. what if the wolves come? yield, arya suggested. finding their way back to the village seemed to take hours. hot pie kept stumbling in the dark and losing his way, and arya had to wait for him and double back. finally she took him by the hand and led him along through the trees. just be quiet and follow. when they could make out the first faint glow of the village fires against the sky, she said, there's dead men hanging on the other side of the hedge, but they're nothing to be scared of, just remember fear cuts deeper than swords. we have to go real quiet and slow. hot pie nodded. she wriggled under the briar first and waited for him on the far side, crouched low. hot pie emerged pale and panting, face and arms bloody with long scratches. he started to say something, but arya put a finger to his lips. on hands and knees, they crawled along the gibbet, beneath the swaying dead. hot pie never once looked up, nor made a sound. until the crow landed on his back, and he gave a muffled gasp. who's there? a voice boomed suddenly from the dark. hot pie leapt to his feet. i yield! he threw away his sword as dozens of crows rose shrieking and complaining to flap about the corpses. arya grabbed his leg and tried to drag him back down, but he wrenched loose and ran forward, waving his arms. i yield, i yield. she bounced up and drew needle, but by then men were all around her. arya slashed at the nearest, but he blocked her with a steel-clad arm, and someone else slammed into her and dragged her to the ground, and a third man wrenched the sword from her grasp. when she tried to bite, her teeth snapped shut on cold dirty chainmail. oho, a fierce one, the man said, laughing. the blow from his iron-clad fist near knocked her head off. they talked over her as she lay hurting, but arya could not seem to understand the words. her ears rang. when she tried to crawl off, the earth moved beneath her. they took needle. the shame of that hurt worse than the pain, and the pain hurt a lot. jon had given her that sword. syrio had taught her to use it. finally someone grabbed the front of her jerkin, yanked her to her knees. hot pie was kneeling too, before the tallest man arya had ever seen, a monster from one of old nan's stories. she never saw where the giant had come from. three black dogs raced across his faded yellow surcoat, and his face looked as hard as if it had been cut from stone. suddenly arya knew where she had seen those dogs before. the night of the tourney at king's landing, all the knights had hung their shields outside their pavilions. that one belongs to the hound's brother, sansa had confided when they passed the black dogs on the yellow field. he's even bigger than hodor, you'll see. they call him the mountain that rides. arya let her head droop, only half aware of what was going on around her. hot pie was yielding some more. the mountain said, you'll lead us to these others, and walked off. next she was stumbling past the dead men on their gibbet, while hot pie told their captors he'd bake them pies and tarts if they didn't hurt him. four men went with them. one carried a torch, one a longsword; two had spears. they found lommy where they'd left him, under the oak. i yield, he called out at once when he saw them. he'd flung away his own spear and raised his hands, splotchy green with old dye. i yield. please. the man with the torch searched around under the trees. are you the last? baker boy said there was a girl. she ran off when she heard you coming, lommy said. you made a lot of noise. and arya thought, run, weasel, run as far as you can, run and hide and never come back. tell us where we can find that whoreson dondarrion, and there'll be a hot meal in it for you. who? said lommy blankly. i told you, this lot don't know no more than those cunts in the village. waste o 'bloody time. one of the spearmen drifted over to lommy. something wrong with your leg, boy? it got hurt. can you walk? he sounded concerned. no, said lommy. you got to carry me. think so? the man lifted his spear casually and drove the point through the boy's soft throat. lommy never even had time to yield again. he jerked once, and that was all. when the man pulled his spear loose, blood sprayed out in a dark fountain. carry him, he says, he muttered, chuckling. fear cuts deeper than swords, arya would tell herself, but that did not make the fear go away. it was as much a part of her days as stale bread and the blisters on her toes after a long day of walking the hard, rutted road. she had thought she had known what it meant to be afraid, but she learned better in that storehouse beside the gods eye. eight days she had lingered there before the mountain gave the command to march, and every day she had seen someone die. the mountain would come into the storehouse after he had broken his fast and pick one of the prisoners for questioning. the village folk would never look at him. maybe they thought that if they did not notice him, he would not notice them... but he saw them anyway and picked whom he liked. there was no place to hide, no tricks to play, no way to be safe. one girl shared a soldier's bed three nights running; the mountain picked her on the fourth day, and the soldier said nothing. a smiley old man mended their clothing and babbled about his son, off serving in the gold cloaks at king's landing. a king's man, he is, he would say, a good king's man like me, all for joffrey. he said it so often the other captives began to call him all-for-joffrey whenever the guards weren't listening. all-for-joffrey was picked on the fifth day. a young mother with a pox-scarred face offered to freely tell them all she knew if they'd promise not to hurt her daughter. the mountain heard her out; the next morning he picked her daughter, to be certain she'd held nothing back. the ones chosen were questioned in full view of the other captives, so they could see the fate of rebels and traitors. a man the others called the tickler asked the questions. his face was so ordinary and his garb so plain that arya might have thought him one of the villagers before she had seen him at his work. tickler makes them howl so hard they piss themselves, old stoop- shoulder chiswyck told them. he was the man she'd tried to bite, who'd called her a fierce little thing and smashed her head with a mailed fist. sometimes he helped the tickler. sometimes others did that. ser gregor clegane himself would stand motionless, watching and listening, until the victim died. the questions were always the same. was there gold hidden in the village? silver, gems? was there more food? where was lord beric dondarrion? which of the village folk had aided him? when he rode off, where did he go? how many men were with them? how many knights, how many bowmen, how many men-at-arms? how were they armed? how many were horsed? how many were wounded? what other enemy had they seen? how many? when? what banners did they fly? where did they go? was there gold hidden in the village? silver, gems? where was lord beric dondarrion? how many men were with him? by the third day, arya could have asked the questions herself. they found a little gold, a little silver, a great sack of copper pennies, and a dented goblet set with garnets that two soldiers almost came to blows over. they learned that lord beric had ten starvelings with him, or else a hundred mounted knights; that he had ridden west, or north, or south; that he had crossed the lake in a boat; that he was strong as an aurochs or weak from the bloody flux. no one ever survived the tickler's questioning; no man, no woman, no child. the strongest lasted past evenfall. their bodies were hung beyond the fires for the wolves. by the time they marched, arya knew she was no water dancer. syrio forel would never have let them knock him down and take his sword away, nor stood by when they killed lommy greenhands. syrio would never have sat silent in that storehouse nor shuffled along meekly among the other captives. the direwolf was the sigil of the starks, but arya felt more a lamb, surrounded by a herd of other sheep. she hated the villagers for their sheepishness, almost as much as she hated herself. the lannisters had taken everything: father, friends, home, hope, courage. one had taken needle, while another had broken her wooden stick sword over his knee. they had even taken her stupid secret. the storehouse had been big enough for her to creep off and make her water in some corner when no one was looking, but it was different on the road. she held it as long as she could, but finally she had to squat by a bush and skin down her breeches in front of all of them. it was that or wet herself. hot pie gaped at her with big moon eyes, but no one else even troubled to look. girl sheep or boy sheep, ser gregor and his men did not seem to care. their captors permitted no chatter. a broken lip taught arya to hold her tongue. others never learned at all. one boy of three would not stop calling for his father, so they smashed his face in with a spiked mace. then the boy's mother started screaming and raff the sweetling killed her as well. arya watched them die and did nothing. what good did it do you to be brave? one of the women picked for questioning had tried to be brave, but she had died screaming like all the rest. there were no brave people on that march, only scared and hungry ones. most were women and children. the few men were very old or very young; the rest had been chained to that gibbet and left for the wolves and the crows. gendry was only spared because he'd admitted to forging the horned helm himself; smiths, even apprentice smiths, were too valuable to kill. they were being taken to serve lord tywin lannister at harrenhal, the mountain told them. you're traitors and rebels, so thank your gods that lord tywin's giving you this chance. it's more than you'd get from the outlaws. obey, serve, and live. it's not just, it's not, she heard one wizened old woman complain to another when they had bedded down for the night. we never did no treason, the others come in and took what they wanted, same as this bunch. lord beric did us no hurt, though, her friend whispered. and that red priest with him, he paid for all they took. paid? he took two of my chickens and gave me a bit of paper with a mark on it. can i eat a bit of raggy old paper, i ask you? will it give me eggs? she looked about to see that no guards were near, and spat three times. there's for the tullys and there's for the lannisters and there's for the starks. it's a sin and a shame, an old man hissed. when the old king was still alive, he'd not have stood for this. king robert? arya asked, forgetting herself. king aerys, gods grace him, the old man said, too loudly. a guard came sauntering over to shut them up. the old man lost both his teeth, and there was no more talk that night. besides his captives, ser gregor was bringing back a dozen pigs, a cage of chickens, a scrawny milk cow, and nine wagons of salt fish. the mountain and his men had horses, but the captives were all afoot, and those too weak to keep up were killed out of hand, along with anyone foolish enough to flee. the guards took women off into the bushes at night, and most seemed to expect it and went along meekly enough. one girl, prettier than the others, was made to go with four or five different men every night, until finally she hit one with a rock. ser gregor made everyone watch while he took off her head with a sweep of his massive two-handed greatsword. leave the body for the wolves, he commanded when the deed was done, handing the sword to his squire to be cleaned. arya glanced sidelong at needle, sheathed at the hip of a blackbearded, balding man-at-arms called polliver. it's good that they took it away, she thought. otherwise she would have tried to stab ser gregor, and he would have cut her right in half, and the wolves would eat her too. polliver was not so bad as some of the others, even though he'd stolen needle. the night she was caught, the lannister men had been nameless strangers with faces as alike as their nasal helms, but she'd come to know them all. you had to know who was lazy and who was cruel, who was smart and who was stupid. you had to learn that even though the one they called shitmouth had the foulest tongue she'd ever heard, he'd give you an extra piece of bread if you asked, while jolly old chiswyck and soft-spoken raff would just give you the back of their hand. arya watched and listened and polished her hates the way gendry had once polished his horned helm. dunsen wore those bull's horns now, and she hated him for it. she hated polliver for needle, and she hated old chiswyck who thought he was funny. and raff the sweetling, who'd driven his spear through lommy's throat, she hated even more. she hated ser amory lorch for yoren, and she hated ser meryn trant for syrio, the hound for killing the butcher's boy mycah, and ser ilyn and prince joffrey and the queen for the sake of her father and fat tom and desmond and the rest, and even for lady, sansa's wolf. the tickler was almost too scary to hate. at times she could almost forget he was still with them; when he was not asking questions, he was just another soldier, quieter than most, with a face like a thousand other men. every night arya would say their names. ser gregor, she'd whisper to her stone pillow. dunsen, polliver, chiswyck, raff the sweetling. the tickler and the hound. ser amory, ser ilyn, ser meryn, king joffrey, queen cersei. back in winterfell, arya had prayed with her mother in the sept and with her father in the godswood, but there were no gods on the road to harrenhal, and her names were the only prayer she cared to remember. every day they marched, and every night she said her names, until finally the trees thinned and gave way to a patchwork landscape of rolling hills, meandering streams, and sunlit fields, where the husks of burnt holdfasts thrust up black as rotten teeth. it was another long day's march before they glimpsed the towers of harrenhal in the distance, hard beside the blue waters of the lake. it would be better once they got to harrenhal, the captives told each other, but arya was not so certain. she remembered old nan's stories of the castle built on fear. harren the black had mixed human blood in the mortar, nan used to say, dropping her voice so the children would need to lean close to hear, but aegon's dragons had roasted harren and all his sons within their great walls of stone. arya chewed her lip as she walked along on feet grown hard with callus. it would not be much longer, she told herself; those towers could not be more than a few miles off. yet they walked all that day and most of the next before at last they reached the fringes of lord tywin's army, encamped west of the castle amidst the scorched remains of a town. harrenhal was deceptive from afar, because it was so huge. its colossal curtain walls rose beside the lake, sheer and sudden as mountain cliffs, while atop their battlements the rows of wood-and-iron scorpions looked as small as the bugs for which they were named. the stink of the lannister host reached arya well before she could make out the devices on the banners that sprouted along the lakeshore, atop the pavilions of the westermen. from the smell, arya could tell that lord tywin had been here some time. the latrines that ringed the encampment were overflowing and swarming with flies, and she saw faint greenish fuzz on many of the sharpened stakes that protected the perimeters. harrenhal' s gatehouse, itself as large as winterfell's great keep, was as scarred as it was massive, its stones fissured and discolored. from outside, only the tops of five immense towers could be seen beyond the walls. the shortest of them was half again as tall as the highest tower in winterfell, but they did not soar the way a proper tower did. arya thought they looked like some old man's gnarled, knuckly fingers groping after a passing cloud. she remembered nan telling how the stone had melted and flowed like candlewax down the steps and in the windows, glowing a sullen searing red as it sought out harren where he hid. arya could believe every word; each tower was more grotesque and misshapen than the last, lumpy and runneled and cracked. i don't want to go there, hot pie squeaked as harrenhal opened its gates to them. there's ghosts in there. chiswyck heard him, but for once he only smiled. baker boy, here's your choice. come join the ghosts, or be one. hot pie went in with the rest of them. in the echoing stone-and-timber bathhouse, the captives were stripped and made to scrub and scrape themselves raw in tubs of scalding hot water. two fierce old women supervised the process, discussing them as bluntly as if they were newly acquired donkeys. when arya's turn came round, goodwife amabel clucked in dismay at the sight of her feet, while goodwife harra felt the callus on her fingers that long hours of practice with needle had earned her. got those churning butter, i'll wager, she said. some farmer's whelp, are you? well, never you mind, girl, you have a chance to win a higher place in this world if you work hard. if you won't work hard, you'll be beaten. and what do they call you? arya dared not say her true name, but any was no good either, it was a boy's name and they could see she was no boy. weasel, she said, naming the first girl she could think of. lommy called me weasel. i can see why, sniffed goodwife amabel. that hair is a fright and a nest for lice as well. we'll have it off, and then you're for the kitchens. i'd sooner tend the horses. arya liked horses, and maybe if she was in the stables she'd be able to steal one and escape. goodwife harra slapped her so hard that her swollen lip broke open all over again. and keep that tongue to yourself or you'll get worse. no one asked your views. the blood in her mouth had a salty metal tang to it. arya dropped her gaze and said nothing. if i still had needle, she wouldn't dare hit me, she thought sullenly. lord tywin and his knights have grooms and squires to tend their horses, they don't need the likes of you, goodwife amabel said. the kitchens are snug and clean, and there's always a warm fire to sleep by and plenty to eat. you might have done well there, but i can see you're not a clever girl. harra, i believe we should give this one to weese. if you think so, amabel. they gave her a shift of grey roughspun wool and a pair of ill-fitting shoes, and sent her off. weese was understeward for the wailing tower, a squat man with a fleshy carbuncle of a nose and a nest of angry red boils near one corner of his plump lips. arya was one of six sent to him. he looked them all over with a gimlet eye. the lannisters are generous to those as serve them well, an honor none of your sort deserve, but in war a man makes do with what's to hand. work hard and mind your place and might be one day you'll rise as high as me. if you think to presume on his lordship's kindness, though, you'll find me waiting after m'lord has gone, y'see. he strutted up and down before them, telling them how they must never look the highborn in the eye, nor speak until spoken to, nor get in his lordship's way. my nose never lies, he boasted. i can smell defiance, i can smell pride, i can smell disobedience. i catch a whiff of any such stinks, you'll answer for it. when i sniff you, all i want to smell is fear. whatever names harren the black had meant to give his towers were long forgotten. they were called the tower of dread, the widow's tower, the wailing tower, the tower of ghosts, and kingspyre tower. arya slept in a shallow niche in the cavernous vaults beneath the wailing tower, on a bed of straw. she had water to wash in whenever she liked, a chunk of soap. the work was hard, but no harder than walking miles every day. weasel did not need to find worms and bugs to eat, as arry had; there was bread every day, and barley stews with bits of carrot and turnip, and once a fortnight even a bite of meat. hot pie ate even better; he was where he belonged, in the kitchens, a round stone building with a domed roof that was a world unto itself. arya took her meals at a trestle table in the undercroft with weese and his other charges, but sometimes she would be chosen to help fetch their food, and she and hot pie could steal a moment to talk. he could never remember that she was now weasel and kept calling her arry, even though he knew she was a girl. once he tried to slip her a hot apple tart, but he made such a clumsy job of it that two of the cooks saw. they took the tart away and beat him with a big wooden spoon. gendry had been sent to the forge; arya seldom saw him. as for those she served with, she did not even want to know their names. that only made it hurt worse when they died. most of them were older than she was and content to let her alone. harrenhal was vast, much of it far gone in decay. lady whent had held the castle as bannerman to house tully, but she'd used only the lower thirds of two of the five towers, and let the rest go to ruin. now she was fled, and the small household she'd left could not begin to tend the needs of all the knights, lords, and highborn prisoners lord tywin had brought, so the lannisters must forage for servants as well as for plunder and provender. the talk was that lord tywin planned to restore harrenhal to glory, and make it his new seat once the war was done. weese used arya to run messages, draw water, and fetch food, and sometimes to serve at table in the barracks hall above the armory, where the men-at-arms took their meals. but most of her work was cleaning. the ground floor of the wailing tower was given over to storerooms and granaries, and two floors above housed part of the garrison, but the upper stories had not been occupied for eighty years. now lord tywin had commanded that they be made fit for habitation again. there were floors to be scrubbed, grime to be washed off windows, broken chairs and rotted beds to be carried off. the topmost story was infested with nests of the huge black bats that house whent had used for its sigil, and there were rats in the cellars as well... and ghosts, some said, the spirits of harren the black and his sons. arya thought that was stupid. harren and his sons had died in kingspyre tower, that was why it had that name, so why should they cross the yard to haunt her? the wailing tower only wailed when the wind blew from the north, and that was just the sound the air made blowing through the cracks in the stones where they had fissured from the heat, if there were ghosts in harrenhal, they never troubled her. it was the living men she feared, weese and ser gregor clegane and lord tywin lannister himself, who kept his apartments in kingspyre tower, still the tallest and mightiest of all, though lopsided beneath the weight of the slagged stone that made it look like some giant half-melted black candle. she wondered what lord tywin would do if she marched up to him and confessed to being arya stark, but she knew she'd never get near enough to talk to him, and anyhow he'd never believe her if she did, and afterward weese would beat her bloody. in his own small strutting way, weese was nearly as scary as ser gregor. the mountain swatted men like flies, but most of the time he did not even seem to know the fly was there. weese always knew you were there, and what you were doing, and sometimes what you were thinking. he would hit at the slightest provocation, and he had a dog who was near as bad as he was, an ugly spotted bitch that smelled worse than any dog arya had ever known. once she saw him set the dog on a latrine boy who'd annoyed him. she tore a big chunk out of the boy's calf while weese laughed. it took him only three days to earn the place of honor in her nightly prayers. weese, she would whisper, first of all. dunsen, chiswyck, polliver, raff the sweetling. the tickler and the hound. ser gregor, ser amory, ser ilyn, ser meryn, king joffrey, queen cersei. if she let herself forget even one of them, how would she ever find him again to kill him? on the road arya had felt like a sheep, but harrenbal turned her into a mouse. she was grey as a mouse in her scratchy wool shift, and like a mouse she kept to the crannies and crevices and dark holes of the castle, scurrying out of the way of the mighty. sometimes she thought they were all mice within those thick walls, even the knights and the great lords. the size of the castle made even gregor clegane seem small. harrenhal covered thrice as much ground as winterfell, and its buildings were so much larger they could scarcely be compared. its stables housed a thousand horses, its godswood covered twenty acres, its kitchens were as large as winterfell' s great hall, and its own great hall, grandly named the hall of a hundred hearths even though it only had thirty and some (arya had tried to count them, twice, but she came up with thirty- three once and thirty- five the other time) was so cavernous that lord tywin could have feasted his entire host, though he never did. walls, doors, halls, steps, everything was built to an inhuman scale that made arya remember the stories old nan used to tell of the giants who lived beyond the wall. and as lords and ladies never notice the little grey mice under their feet, arya heard all sorts of secrets just by keeping her ears open as she went about her duties. pretty pia from the buttery was a slut who was working her way through every knight in the castle. the wife of the gaoler was with child, but the real father was either ser alyn stackspear or a singer called whitesmile wat. lord lefford made mock of ghosts at table, but always kept a candle burning by his bed. ser dunaver's squire jodge could not hold his water when he slept. the cooks despised ser harys swyft and spit in all his food. once she even overheard maester tothmure's serving girl confiding to her brother about some message that said joffrey was a bastard and not the rightful king at all. lord tywin told him to burn the letter and never speak such filth again, the girl whispered. king robert's brothers stannis and renly had joined the fighting, she heard. and both of them kings now, weese said. realm's got more kings than a castle's got rats. even lannister men questioned how long joffrey would hold the iron throne. the lad's got no army but them gold cloaks, and he's ruled by a eunuch, a dwarf, and a woman, she heard a lordling mutter in his cups. what good will the likes of them be if it comes to battle? there was always talk of beric dondarrion. a fat archer once said the bloody mummers had slain him, but the others only laughed. lorch killed the man at rushing falls, and the mountain's slain him twice. got me a silver stag says he don't stay dead this time neither. arya did not know who bloody mummers were until a fortnight later, when the queerest company of men she'd ever seen arrived at harrenhal. beneath the standard of a black goat with bloody horns rode copper men with bells in their braids; lancers astride striped black-and-white horses; bowmen with powdered cheeks; squat hairy men with shaggy shields; brown-skinned men in feathered cloaks; a wispy fool in green-and-pink motley; swordsmen with fantastic forked beards dyed green and purple and silver; spearmen with colored scars that covered their cheeks; a slender man in septon's robes, a fatherly one in maester's grey, and a sickly one whose leather cloak was fringed with long blond hair. at their head was a man stick-thin and very tall, with a drawn emaciated face made even longer by the ropy black beard that grew from his pointed chin nearly to his waist. the helm that hung from his saddle horn was black steel, fashioned in the shape of a goat's head. about his neck he wore a chain made of linked coins of many different sizes, shapes, and metals, and his horse was one of the strange black-and-white ones. you don't want to know that lot, weasel, weese said when he saw her looking at the goat- helmed man. two of his drinking friends were with him, men-at-arms in service to lord lefford. who are they? she asked. one of the soldiers laughed. the footmen, girl. toes of the goat. lord tywin's bloody mummers. pease for wits. you get her flayed, you can scrub the bloody steps, said weese. they're sellswords, weasel girl. call themselves the brave companions. don't use them other names where they can hear, or they'll hurt you bad. the goat-helm's their captain, lord vargo hoat. he's no fucking lord, said the second soldier. i heard ser amory say so. he's just some sellsword with a mouth full of slobber and a high opinion of hisself aye, said weese, but she better call him lord if she wants to keep all her parts. arya looked at vargo hoat again. how many monsters does lord tywin have? the brave companions were housed in the widow's tower, so arya need not serve them. she was glad of that; on the very night they arrived, fighting broke out between the sellswords and some lannister men. ser harys swyft's squire was stabbed to death and two of the bloody mummers were wounded. the next morning lord tywin hanged them both from the gatehouse walls, along with one of lord lydden's archers. weese said the archer had started all the trouble by taunting the sellswords over beric dondarrion. after the hanged men had stopped kicking, vargo hoat and ser harys embraced and kissed and swore to love each other always as lord tywin looked on. arya thought it was funny the way vargo hoat lisped and slobbered, but she knew better than to laugh. the bloody mummers did not linger long at harrenhal, but before they rode out again, arya heard one of them saying how a northern army under roose bolton had occupied the ruby ford of the trident. if he crosses, lord tywin will smash him again like he did on the green fork, a lannister bowmen said, but his fellows jeered him down. boltontl never cross, not till the young wolf marches from riverrun with his wild northmen and all them wolves. arya had not known her brother was so near. riverrun was much closer than winterfell, though she was not certain where it lay in relation to harrenhal. i could find out somehow, i know i could, if only i could get away. when she thought of seeing robb's face again arya had to bite her lip. and i want to see jon too, and bran and rickon, and mother. even sansa... i'll kiss her and beg her pardons like a proper lady, she'll like that. from the courtyard talk she'd learned that the upper chambers of the tower of dread housed three dozen captives taken during some battle on the green fork of the trident. most had been given freedom of the castle in return for their pledge not to attempt escape. they vowed not to escape, arya told herself, but they never swore not to help me escape. the captives ate at their own table in the hall of a hundred hearths, and could often be seen about the grounds. four brothers took their exercise together every day, fighting with staves and wooden shields in the flowstone yard. three of them were freys of the crossing, the fourth their bastard brother. they were only there a short time, though; one morning two other brothers arrived under a peace banner with a chest of gold, and ransomed them from the knights who'd captured them. the six freys all left together. no one ransomed the northmen, though. one fat lordling haunted the kitchens, hot pie told her, always looking for a morsel. his mustache was so bushy that it covered his mouth, and the clasp that held his cloak was a silver-and-sapphire trident. he belonged to lord tywin, but the fierce, bearded young man who liked to walk the battlements alone in a black cloak patterned with white suns had been taken by some hedge knight who meant to get rich off him. sansa would have known who he was, and the fat one too, but arya had never taken much interest in titles and sigils. whenever septa mordane had gone on about the history of this house and that house, she was inclined to drift and dream and wonder when the lesson would be done. she did remember lord cerwyn, though. his lands had been close to winterfell, so he and his son cley had often visited. yet as fate would have it, he was the only captive who was never seen; he was abed in a tower cell, recovering from a wound. for days and days arya tried to work out how she might steal past the door guards to see him. if he knew her, he would be honor bound to help her. a lord would have gold for a certainty, they all did; perhaps he would pay some of lord tywin's own sellswords to take her to riverrun. father had always said that most sellswords would betray anyone for enough gold. then one morning she spied three women in the cowled grey robes of the silent sisters loading a corpse into their wagon. the body was sewn into a cloak of the finest silk, decorated with a battle-axe sigil. when arya asked who it was, one of the guards told her that lord cerwyn had died. the words felt like a kick in the belly. he could never have helped you anyway, she thought as the sisters drove the wagon through the gate. he couldn't even help himself, you stupid mouse. after that it was back to scrubbing and scurrying and listening at doors. lord tywin would soon march on riverrun, she heard, or he would drive south to highgarden, no one would ever expect that. no, he must defend king's landing, stannis was the greatest threat. he'd sent gregor clegane and vargo hoat to destroy roose bolton and remove the dagger from his back. he'd sent ravens to the eyrie, he meant to wed the lady lysa arryn and win the vale. he'd bought a ton of silver to forge magic swords that would slay the stark wargs. he was writing lady stark to make a peace, the kingslayer would soon be freed. though ravens came and went every day, lord tywin himself spent most of his days behind closed doors with his war council. arya caught glimpses of him, but always from afar-once walking the walls in the company of three maesters and the fat captive with the bushy mustache, once riding out with his lords bannermen to visit the encampments, but most often standing in an arch of the covered gallery watching men at practice in the yard below. he stood with his hands locked together on the gold pommel of his longsword. they said lord tywin loved gold most of all; he even shit gold, she heard one squire jest. the lannister lord was strong-looking for an old man, with stiff golden whiskers and a bald head. there was something in his face that reminded arya of her own father, even though they looked nothing alike. he has a lord's face, that's all, she told herself. she remembered hearing her lady mother tell father to put on his lord's face and go deal with some matter. father had laughed at that. she could not imagine lord tywin ever laughing at anything, one afternoon, while she was waiting her turn to draw a pail of water from the well, she heard the hinges of the east gate groaning. a party of men rode under the portcullis at a walk. when she spied the manticore crawling across the shield of their leader, a stab of hate shot through her. in the light of day, ser amory lorch looked less frightening than he had by torchlight, but he still had the pig's eyes she recalled. one of the women said that his men had ridden all the way around the lake chasing beric dondarrion and slaying rebels. we weren't rebels, arya thought. we were the night's watch; the night's watch takes no side. ser amory had fewer men than she remembered, though, and many wounded. i hope their wounds fester. i hope they all die. then she saw the three near the end of the column. rorge had donned a black halfhelm with a broad iron nasal that made it hard to see that he did not have a nose. biter rode ponderously beside him on a destrier that looked ready to collapse under his weight. halfhealed burns covered his body, making him even more hideous than before. but jaqen h'ghar still smiled. his garb was still ragged and filthy, but he had found time to wash and brush his hair. it streamed down across his shoulders, red and white and shiny, and arya heard the girls giggling to each other in admiration. i should have let the fire have them. gendry said to, i should have listened. if she hadn't thrown them that axe they'd all be dead. for a moment she was afraid, but they rode past her without a flicker of interest. only jaqen h'ghar so much as glanced in her direction, and his eyes passed right over her. he does not know me, she thought. arry was a fierce little boy with a sword, and i'm just a grey mouse girl with a pail. she spent the rest of that day scrubbing steps inside the wailing tower. by evenfall her hands were raw and bleeding and her arms so sore they trembled when she lugged the pail back to the cellar. too tired even for food, arya begged weese's pardons and crawled into her straw to sleep. weese, she yawned. dunsen, chiswyck, polliver, raff the sweetling. the tickler and the hound. ser gregor, ser amory, ser ilyn, ser meryn, king joffrey, queen cersei. she thought she might add three more names to her prayer, but she was too tired to decide tonight. arya was dreaming of wolves running wild through the wood when a strong hand clamped down over her mouth like smooth warm stone, solid and unyielding. she woke at once, squirming and struggling. a girl says nothing, a voice whispered close behind her ear. a girl keeps her lips closed, no one hears, and friends may talk in secret. yes? heart pounding, arya managed the tiniest of nods. jaqen h'ghar took his hand away. the cellar was black as pitch and she could not see his face, even inches away. she could smell him, though; his skin smelled clean and soapy, and he had scented his hair. a boy becomes a girl, he murmured. i was always a girl. i didn't think you saw me. a man sees. a man knows. she remembered that she hated him. you scared me. you're one of them now, i should have let you burn. what are you doing here? go away or i'll yell for weese. a man pays his debts. a man owes three. three?  the red god has his due, sweet girl, and only death may pay for life. this girl took three that were his. this girl must give three in their places. speak the names, and a man will do the rest. he wants to help me, arya realized with a rush of hope that made her dizzy. take me to riverrun, it's not far, if we stole some horses we could- he laid a finger on her lips. three lives you shall have of me. no more, no less. three and we are done. so a girl must ponder. he kissed her hair softly. but not too long. by the time arya lit her stub of a candle, only a faint smell remained of him, a whiff of ginger and cloves lingering in the air. the woman in the next niche rolled over on her straw and complained of the light, so arya blew it out. when she closed her eyes, she saw faces swimming before her. joffrey and his mother, ilyn payne and meryn trant and sandor clegane... but they were in king's landing hundreds of miles away, and ser gregor had lingered only a few nights before departing again for more foraging, taking raff and chiswyck and the tickler with him. ser amory lorch was here, though, and she hated him almost as much. didn't she? she wasn't certain. and there was always weese. she thought of him again the next morning, when lack of sleep made her yawn. weasel, weese purred, next time i see that mouth droop open, i'll pull out your tongue and feed it to my bitch. he twisted her ear between his fingers to make certain she'd heard, and told her to get back to those steps, he wanted them clean down to the third landing by nightfall. as she worked, arya thought about the people she wanted dead. she pretended she could see their faces on the steps, and scrubbed harder to wipe them away. the starks were at war with the lannisters and she was a stark, so she should kill as many lannisters as she could, that was what you did in wars. but she didn't think she should trust jaqen. i should kill them myself. whenever her father had condemned a man to death, he did the deed himself with ice, his greatsword. if you would take a man's life, you owe it to him to look him in the face and hear his last words, she'd heard him tell robb and jon once. the next day she avoided jaqen h'ghar, and the day after that. it was not hard. she was very small and harrenhal was very large, full of places where a mouse could hide. and then ser gregor returned, earlier than expected, driving a herd of goats this time in place of a herd of prisoners. she heard he'd lost four men in one of lord beric's night raids, but those arya hated returned unscathed and took up residence on the second floor of the wailing tower. weese saw that they were well supplied with drink. they always have a good thirst, that lot, he grumbled. weasel, go up and ask if they've got any clothes that need mending, i'll have the women see to it. arya ran up her well-scrubbed steps. no one paid her any mind when she entered. chiswyck was seated by the fire with a horn of ale to hand, telling one of his funny stories. she dared not interrupt, unless she wanted a bloody lip. after the hand's tourney, it were, before the war come, chiswyck was saying. we were on our ways back west, seven of us with ser gregor. raff was with me, and young joss stilwood, he'd squired for ser in the lists. well, we come on this pisswater river, running high on account there'd been rains. no way to ford, but there's an alehouse near, so there we repair. ser rousts the brewer and tells him to keep our horns full till the waters fall, and you should see the man's pig eyes shine at the sight o' silver. so he's fetching us ale, him and his daughter, and poor thin stuff it is, no more'n brown piss, which don't make me any happier, nor ser neither. and all the time this brewer's saying how glad he is to have us, custom being slow on account o' them rains. the fool won't shut his yap, not him, though ser is saying not a word, just brooding on the knight o' pansies and that bugger's trick he played. you can see how tight his mouth sits, so me and the other lads we know better'n to say a squeak to him, but this brewer he's got to talk, he even asks how m'lord fared in the jousting. ser just gave him this look. chiswyck cackled, quaffed his ale, and wiped the foam away with the back of his hand. meanwhile, this daughter of his has been fetching and pouring, a fat little thing, eighteen or so- thirteen, more like, raff the sweetling drawled. well, be that as it may, she's not much to look at, but eggon's been drinking and gets to touching her, and might be i did a little touching meself, and raffs telling young stilwood that he ought to drag the girl upstairs and make hisself a man, giving the lad courage as it were. finally joss reaches up under her skirt, and she shrieks and drops her flagon and goes running off to the kitchen. well, it would have ended right there, only what does the old fool do but he goes to ser and asks him to make us leave the girl alone, him being an anointed knight and all such. ser gregor, he wasn't paying no mind to none of our fun, but now he looks, you know how he does, and he commands that the girl be brought before him. now the old man has to drag her out of the kitchen, and no one to blame but hisself ser looks her over and says, 'so this is the whore you're so concerned for' and this besotted old fool says, 'my layna's no whore, ser' right to gregor's face. ser, he never blinks, just says, 'she is now' tosses the old man another silver, rips the dress off the wench, and takes her right there on the table in front of her da, her flopping and wiggling like a rabbit and making these noises. the look on the old man's face, i laughed so hard ale was coming out me nose. then this boy hears the noise, the son i figure, and comes rushing up from the cellar, so raff has to stick a dirk in his belly. by then ser's done, so he goes back to his drinking and we all have a turn. tobbot, you know how he is, he flops her over and goes in the back way. the girl was done fighting by the time i had her, maybe she'd decided she liked it after all, though to tell the truth i wouldn't have minded a little wiggling. and now here's the best bit... when it's all done, ser tells the old man that he wants his change. the girl wasn't worth a silver, he says... and damned if that old man didn't fetch a fistful of coppers, beg mlord's pardon, and thank him for the custom! the men all roared, none louder than chiswyck himself, who laughed so hard at his own story that snot dribbled from his nose down into his scraggy grey beard. arya stood in the shadows of the stairwell and watched him. she crept back down to the cellars without saying a word. when weese found that she hadn't asked about the clothes, he yanked down her breeches and caned her until blood ran down her thighs, but arya closed her eyes and thought of all the sayings syrio had taught her, so she scarcely felt it. two nights later, he sent her to the barracks hall to serve at table. she was carrying a flagon of wine and pouring when she glimpsed jaqen h'ghar at his trencher across the aisle. chewing her lip, arya glanced around warily to make certain weese was not in sight. fear cuts deeper than swords, she told herself. she took a step, and another, and with each she felt less a mouse. she worked her way down the bench, filling wine cups. rorge sat to jaqen's right, deep drunk, but he took no note of her. arya leaned close and whispered, chiswyck, right in jaqen's ear. the lorathi gave no sign that he had heard. when her flagon was empty, arya hurried down to the cellars to refill it from the cask, and quickly returned to her pouring. no one had died of thirst while she was gone, nor even noted her brief absence. nothing happened the next day, nor the day after, but on the third day arya went to the kitchens with weese to fetch their dinner. one of the mountain's men fell off a wallwalk last night and broke his fool neck, she heard weese tell a cook. drunk? the woman asked. no more'n usual. some are saying it was harren's ghost flung him down. he snorted to show what he thought of such notions. it wasn't harren, arya wanted to say, it was me. she had killed chiswyck with a whisper, and she would kill two more before she was through. i'm the ghost in harrenhal, she thought. and that night, there was one less name to hate. confusion and clangor ruled the castle. men stood on the beds of wagons loading casks of wine, sacks of flour, and bundles of new-fletched arrows. smiths straightened swords, knocked dents from breastplates, and shoed destriers and pack mules alike. mail shirts were tossed in barrels of sand and rolled across the lumpy surface of the flowstone yard to scour them clean. weese's women had twenty cloaks to mend, a hundred more to wash. the high and humble crowded into the sept together to pray. outside the walls, tents and pavilions were coming down. squires tossed pails of water over cookfires, while soldiers took out their oilstones to give their blades one last good lick. the noise was a swelling tide: horses blowing and whickering, lords shouting commands, men-at-arms trading curses, camp followers squabbling. lord tywin lannister was marching at last. ser addam marbrand was the first of the captains to depart, a day before the rest. he made a gallant show of it, riding a spirited red courser whose mane was the same copper color as the long hair that streamed past ser addam's shoulders. the horse was barded in bronze-colored trappings dyed to match the rider's cloak and emblazoned with the burning tree. some of the castle women sobbed to see him go. weese said he was a great horseman and sword fighter, lord tywin' s most daring commander. i hope he dies, arya thought as she watched him ride out the gate, his men streaming after him in a double column. i hope they all die. they were going to fight robb, she knew. listening to the talk as she went about her work, arya had learned that robb had won some great victory in the west. he'd burned lannisport, some said, or else he meant to burn it. he'd captured casterly rock and put everyone to the sword, or he was besieging the golden tooth... but something had happened, that much was certain. weese had her running messages from dawn to dusk. some of them even took her beyond the castle walls, out into the mud and madness of the camp. i could flee, she thought as a wagon rumbled past her. i could hop on the back of a wagon and hide, or fall in with the camp followers, no one would stop me. she might have done it if not for weese. he'd told them more than once what he'd do to anyone who tried to run off on him. it won't be no beating, oh, no. i won't lay a finger on you. i'll just save you for the qohorik, yes i will, i'll save you for the crippler. vargo hoat his name is, and when he gets back he'll cut off your feet. maybe if weese were dead, arya thought... but not when she was with him. he could look at you and smell what you were thinking, he always said so. weese never imagined she could read, though, so he never bothered to seal the messages he gave her. arya peeked at them all, but they were never anything good, just stupid stuff sending this cart to the granary and that one to the armory. one was a demand for payment on a gambling debt, but the knight she gave it to couldn't read. when she told him what it said he tried to hit her, but arya ducked under the blow, snatched a silver-banded drinking horn off his saddle, and darted away. the knight roared and came after her, but she slid between two wayns, wove through a crowd of archers, and jumped a latrine trench. in his mail he couldn't keep up. when she gave the horn to weese, he told her that a smart little weasel like her deserved a reward. i've got my eye on a plump crisp capon to sup on tonight. we'll share it, me and you. you'll like that. everywhere she went, arya searched for jaqen h'ghar, wanting to whisper another name to him before those she hated were all gone out of her reach, but amidst the chaos and confusion the lorathi sellsword was not to be found. he still owed her two deaths, and she was worried she would never get them if he rode off to battle with the rest. finally she worked up the courage to ask one of the gate guards if he'd gone. one of lorch's men, is he? the man said. he won't be going, then. his lordship's named ser amory castellan of harrenhal. that whole lot's staying right here, to hold the castle. the bloody mummers will be left as well, to do the foraging. that goat vargo hoat is like to spit, him and lorch have always hated each other. the mountain would be leaving with lord tywin, though. he would command the van in battle, which meant that dunsen, polliver, and raff would all slip between her fingers unless she could find jaqen and have him kill one of them before they left. weasel, weese said that afternoon. get to the armory and tell lucan that ser lyonel notched his sword in practice and needs a new one. here's his mark. he handed her a square of paper. be quick about it now, he's to ride with ser kevan lannister. arya took the paper and ran. the armory adjoined the castle smithy, a long high-roofed tunnel of a building with twenty forges built into its walls and long stone water troughs for tempering the steel. half of the forges were at work when she entered. the walls rang with the sound of hammers, and burly men in leather aprons stood sweating in the sullen heat as they bent over bellows and anvils. when she spied gendry, his bare chest was slick with sweat, but the blue eyes under the heavy black hair had the stubborn look she remembered. arya didn't know that she even wanted to talk to him. it was his fault they'd all been caught. which one is lucan? she thrust out the paper. i'm to get a new sword for ser lyonel. never mind about ser lyonel. he drew her aside by the arm. last night hot pie asked me if i heard you yell winterfell back at the holdfast, when we were all fighting on the wall. i never did! yes you did. i heard you too. everyone was yelling stuff, arya said defensively. hot pie yelled hot pie. he must have yelled it a hundred times. it's what you yelled that matters. i told hot pie he should clean the wax out of his ears, that all you yelled was go to hell! if he asks you, you better say the same. i will, she said, even though she thought go to hell was a stupid thing to yell. she didn't dare tell hot pie who she really was. maybe i should say hot pie's name to jaqen. i'll get lucan, gendry said. lucan grunted at the writing (though arya did not think he could read it), and pulled down a heavy longsword. this is too good for that oaf, and you tell him i said so, he said as he gave her the blade. i will, she lied. if she did any such thing, weese would beat her bloody. lucan could deliver his own insults. the longsword was a lot heavier than needle had been, but arya liked the feel of it. the weight of steel in her hands made her feel stronger. maybe i'm not a water dancer yet, but i'm not a mouse either. a mouse couldn't use a sword but i can. the gates were open, soldiers coming and going, drays rolling in empty and going out creaking and swaying under their loads. she thought about going to the stables and telling them that ser lyonel wanted a new horse. she had the paper, the stableboys wouldn't be able to read it any better than lucan had. i could take the horse and the sword and just ride out. if the guards tried to stop me i'd show them the paper and say i was bringing everything to ser lyonel. she had no notion what ser lyonel looked like or where to find him, though. if they questioned her, they'd know, and then weese... weese... as she chewed her lip, trying not to think about how it would feel to have her feet cut off, a group of archers in leather jerkins and iron helms went past, their bows slung across their shoulders. arya heard snatches of their talk. giants i tell you, he's got giants twenty foot tall come down from beyond the wall, follow him like dogs...  ...not natural, coming on them so fast, in the night and all. he's more wolf than man, all them starks are...  shit on your wolves and giants, the boy'd piss his pants if he knew we was coming. he wasn't man enough to march on harrenhal, was he? ran vother way, didn't he? he'd run now if he knew what was best for him. so you say, but might be the boy knows something we don't, maybe it's us ought to be run... yes, arya thought. yes, it's you who ought to run, you and lord tywin and the mountain and ser addam and ser amory and stupid ser lyonel whoever he is, all of you better run or my brother will kill you, he's a stark, he's more wolf than man, and so am i. weasel. weese's voice cracked like a whip. she never saw where he came from, but suddenly he was right in front of her. give me that. took you long enough. he snatched the sword from her fingers, and dealt her a stinging slap with the back of his hand. next time be quicker about it. for a moment she had been a wolf again, but weese's slap took it all away and left her with nothing but the taste of her own blood in her mouth. she'd bitten her tongue when he hit her. she hated him for that. you want another? weese demanded. you'll get it too. i'll have none of your insolent looks. get down to the brewhouse and tell tuffleberry that i have two dozen barrels for him, but he better send his lads to fetch them or i'll find someone wants 'em worse. arya started off, but not quick enough for weese. you run if you want to eat tonight, he shouted, his promises of a plump crisp capon already forgotten. and don't be getting lost again, or i swear i'll beat you bloody. you won't, arya thought. you won't ever again. but she ran. the old gods of the north must have been guiding her steps. halfway to the brewhouse, as she passing under the stone bridge that arched between widow's tower and kingspyre, she heard harsh, growling laughter. rorge came around a corner with three other men, the manticore badge of ser amory sewn over their hearts. when he saw her, he stopped and grinned, showing a mouthful of crooked brown teeth under the leather flap he wore sometimes to cover the hole in his face. yoren's little cunt, he called her. guess we know why that black bastard wanted you on the wall, don't we? he laughed again, and the others laughed with him. where's your stick now? rorge demanded suddenly, the smile gone as quick as it had come. seems to me i promised to fuck you with it. he took a step toward her. arya edged backward. not so brave now that i'm not in chains, are you? i saved you. she kept a good yard between them, ready to run quick as a snake if he made a grab for her. owe you another fucking for that, seems like. did yoren pump your cunny, or did he like that tight little ass better? i'm looking for jaqen, she said. there's a message. rorge halted. something in his eyes... could it be that he was scared of jaqen h'ghar? the bathhouse. get out of my way. arya whirled and ran, swift as a deer, her feet flying over the cobbles all the way to the bathhouse, she found jaqen soaking in a tub, steam rising around him as a serving girl sluiced hot water over his head. his long hair, red on one side and white on the other, fell down across his shoulders, wet and heavy. she crept up quiet as a shadow, but he opened his eyes all the same. she steals in on little mice feet, but a man hears, he said. how could he hear me? she wondered, and it seemed as if he heard that as well. the scuff of leather on stone sings loud as warhorns to a man with open ears. clever girls go barefoot. i have a message. arya eyed the serving girl uncertainly. when she did not seem likely to go away, she leaned in until her mouth was almost touching his ear. weese, she whispered. jaqen h'ghar closed his eyes again, floating languid, half -asleep. tell his lordship a man shall attend him at his leisure. his hand moved suddenly, splashing hot water at her, and arya had to leap back to keep from getting drenched. when she told tuffleberry what weese had said, the brewer cursed loudly. you tell weese my lads got duties to attend to, and you tell him he's a pox-ridden bastard too, and the seven hells will freeze over before he gets another horn of my ale. i'll have them barrels within the hour or lord tywin will hear of it, see if he don't. weese cursed too when arya brought back that message, even though she left out the pox- ridden bastard part. he fumed and threatened, but in the end he rounded up six men and sent them off grumbling to fetch the barrels down to the brewhouse. supper that evening was a thin stew of barley, onion, and carrots, with a wedge of stale brown bread. one of the women had taken to sleeping in weese's bed, and she got a piece of ripe blue cheese as well, and a wing off the capon that weese had spoken of that morning. he ate the rest himself, the grease running down in a shiny line through the boils that festered at the corner of his mouth. the bird was almost gone when he glanced up from his trencher and saw arya staring. weasel, come here. a few mouthfuls of dark meat still clung to one thigh. he forgot, but now he's remembered, arya thought, it made her feel bad for telling jaqen to kill him. she got off the bench and went to the head of the table. i saw you looking at me. weese wiped his fingers on the front of her shift. then he grabbed her throat with one hand and slapped her with the other. what did i tell you? he slapped her again, backhand. keep those eyes to yourself, or next time i'll spoon one out and feed it to my bitch. a shove sent her stumbling to the floor. her hem caught on a loose nail in the splintered wooden bench and ripped as she fell. you'll mend that before you sleep, weese announced as he pulled the last bit of meat off the capon. when he was finished he sucked his fingers noisily, and threw the bones to his ugly spotted dog. weese, arya whispered that night as she bent over the tear in her shift. dunsen, polliver, raff the sweet ling, she said, calling a name every time she pushed the bone needle through the undyed wool. the tickler and the hound. ser gregor, ser amory, ser ilyn, ser meryn, king joffrey, queen cersei. she wondered how much longer she would have to include weese in her prayer, and drifted off to sleep dreaming that on the morrow, when she woke, he'd be dead. but it was the sharp toe of weese's boot that woke her, as ever. the main strength of lord tywin's host would ride this day, he told them as they broke their fast on oatcakes. don't none of you be thinking how easy it'll be here once m'lord of lannister is gone, he warned. the castle won't grow no smaller, i promise you that, only now there'll be fewer hands to tend to it. you lot of slugabeds are going to learn what work is now, yes you are. not from you. arya picked at her oaten cake. weese frowned at her, as if he smelled her secret. quickly she dropped her gaze to her food, and dared not raise her eyes again. pale light filled the yard when lord tywin lannister took his leave of harrenhal. arya watched from an arched window halfway up the wailing tower. his charger wore a blanket of enameled crimson scales and gilded crinet and charnfron, while lord tywin himself sported a thick ermine cloak. his brother ser kevan looked near as splendid. no less than four standard-bearers went before them, carrying huge crimson banners emblazoned with the golden lion. behind the lannisters came their great lords and captains. their banners flared and flapped, a pageant of color: red ox and golden mountain, purple unicorn and bantam rooster, brindled boar and badger, a silver ferret and a juggler in motley, stars and sunbursts, peacock and panther, chevron and dagger, black hood and blue beetle and green arrow. last of all came ser gregor clegane in his grey plate steel, astride a stallion as bad-tempered as his rider. polliver rode beside him, with the black dog standard in his hand and gendry's horned helm on his head. he was a tall man, but he looked no more than a half-grown boy when he rode in his master's shadow. a shiver crept up arya's spine as she watched them pass under the great iron portcullis of harrenhal. suddenly she knew that she had made a terrible mistake. i'm so stupid, she thought. weese did not matter, no more than chiswyck had. these were the men who mattered, the ones she ought to have killed. last night she could have whispered any of them dead, if only she hadn't been so mad at weese for hitting her and lying about the capon. lord tywin, why didn't i say lord tywin? perhaps it was not too late to change her mind. weese was not killed yet. if she could find jaqen, tell him... hurriedly, arya ran down the twisting steps, her chores forgotten. she heard the rattle of chains as the portcullis was slowly lowered, its spikes sinking deep into the ground... and then another sound, a shriek of pain and fear. a dozen people got there before her, though none was coming any too close. arya squirmed between them. weese was sprawled across the cobbles, his throat a red ruin, eyes gaping sightlessly up at a bank of grey cloud. his ugly spotted dog stood on his chest, lapping at the blood pulsing from his neck, and every so often ripping a mouthful of flesh out of the dead man's face. finally someone brought a crossbow and shot the spotted dog dead while she was worrying at one of weese's ears. damnedest thing, she heard a man say. he had that bitch dog since she was a pup. this place is cursed, the man with the crossbow said. it's harren's ghost, that's what it is, said goodwife amabel. i'll not sleep here another night, i swear it. arya lifted her gaze from the dead man and his dead dog. jaqen h'ghar was leaning up against the side of the wailing tower. when he saw her looking, he lifted a hand to his face and laid two fingers casually against his cheek. there's ghosts, i know there is. hot pie was kneading bread, his arms floured up to his elbows. pia saw something in the buttery last night. arya made a rude noise. pia was always seeing things in the buttery. usually they were men. can i have a tart? she asked. you baked a whole tray. i need a whole tray. ser amory is partial to them. she hated ser amory. let's spit on them. hot pie looked around nervously. the kitchens were full of shadows and echoes, but the other cooks and scullions were all asleep in the cavernous lofts above the ovens. he'll know. he will not, arya said. you can't taste spit. if he does, it's me they'll whip. hot pie stopped his kneading. you shouldn't even be here. it's the black of night. it was, but arya never minded. even in the black of night, the kitchens were never still; there was always someone rolling dough for the morning bread, stirring a kettle with a long wooden spoon, or butchering a hog for ser amory's breakfast bacon. tonight it was hot pie. if pinkeye wakes and finds you gone- hot pie said. pinkeye never wakes. his true name was mebble, but everyone called him pinkeye for his runny eyes. not once he's passed out. each morning he broke his fast with ale. each evening he fell into a drunken sleep after supper, wine-colored spit running down his chin. arya would wait until she heard him snoring, then creep barefoot up the servant's stair, making no more noise than the mouse she'd been. she carried neither candle nor taper. syrio had told her once that darkness could be her friend, and he was right. if she had the moon and the stars to see by, that was enough. i bet we could escape, and pinkeye wouldn't even notice i was gone, she told hot pie. i don't want to escape. it's better here than it was in them woods. i don't want to eat no worms. here, sprinkle some flour on the board. arya cocked her head. what's that? what? i don't- listen with your ears, not your mouth. that was a warhorn. two blasts, didn't you hear? and there, that's the portcullis chains, someone's going out or coming in. want to go see? the gates of harrenhal had not been opened since the morning lord tywin had marched with his host. i'm making the morning bread, hot pie complained. anyhow i don't like it when it's dark, i told you. i'm going. i'll tell you after. can i have a tart? no. she filched one anyway, and ate it on her way out. it was stuffed with chopped nuts and fruit and cheese, the crust flaky and still warm from the oven. eating ser amory's tart made arya feel daring. barefoot surefoot lightfoot, she sang under her breath. i am the ghost in harrenhal. the horn had stirred the castle from sleep; men were coming out into the ward to see what the commotion was about. arya fell in with the others. a line of ox carts were rumbling under the portcullis. plunder, she knew at once. the riders escorting the carts spoke in a babble of queer tongues. their armor glinted pale in the moonlight, and she saw a pair of striped black-and-white zorses. the bloody mummers. arya withdrew a little deeper into the shadows, and watched as a huge black bear rolled by, caged in the back of a wagon. other carts were loaded down with silver plate, weapons and shields, bags of flour, pens of squealing hogs and scrawny dogs and chickens. arya was thinking how long it had been since she'd had a slice off a pork roast when she saw the first of the prisoners. by his bearing and the proud way he held his head, he must have been a lord. she could see mail glinting beneath his torn red surcoat. at first arya took him for a lannister, but when he passed near a torch she saw his device was a silver fist, not a lion. his wrists were bound tightly, and a rope around one ankle tied him to the man behind him, and him to the man behind him, so the whole column had to shuffle along in a lurching lockstep. many of the captives were wounded. if any halted, one of the riders would trot up and give him a lick of the whip to get him moving again. she tried to judge how many prisoners there were, but lost count before she got to fifty. there were twice that many at least. their clothing was stained with mud and blood, and in the torchlight it was hard to make out all their badges and sigils, but some of those arya glimpsed she recognized. twin towers. sunburst. bloody man. battle-axe. the battleaxe is for cerwyn, and the white sun on black is karstark. they're northmen. my father's men, and robb's. she didn't like to think what that might mean. the bloody mummers began to dismount. stableboys emerged sleepy from their straw to tend their lathered horses. one of the riders was shouting for ale. the noise brought ser amory lorch out onto the covered gallery above the ward, flanked by two torchbearers. goat-helmed vargo hoat reined up below him. my lord cathellan, the sellsword said. he had a thick, slobbery voice, as if his tongue was too big for his mouth. what's all this, hoat? ser amory demanded, frowning. captiths. rooth bolton thought to croth the river, but my brafe companions cut his van to pieceth. killed many, and thent bolton running. thith ith their lord commander, glover, and the one behind ith ther aenyth frey. ser amory lorch stared down at the roped captives with his little pig eyes. arya did not think he was pleased. everyone in the castle knew that he and vargo hoat hated each other. very well, he said. ser cadwyn, take these men to the dungeons. the lord with the mailed fist on his surcoat raised his eyes. we were promised honorable treatment- he began. silenth! vargo hoat screamed at him, spraying spittle. ser amory addressed the captives. what hoat promised you is nothing to me. lord tywin made me the castellan of harrenhal, and i shall do with you as i please. he gestured to his guards. the great cell under the widow's tower ought to hold them all. any who do not care to go are free to die here. as his men herded off the captives at spearpoint, arya saw pinkeye emerge from the stairwell, blinking at the torchlight. if he found her missing, he would shout and threaten to whip the bloody hide off her, but she was not afraid. he was no weese. he was forever threatening to whip the bloody hide off this one or that one, but arya never actually knew him to hit. still, it would be better if he never saw her. she glanced around. the oxen were being unharnessed, the carts unloaded, while the brave companions clamored for drink and the curious gathered around the caged bear. in the commotion, it was not hard to slip off unseen. she went back the way she had come, wanting to be out of sight before someone noticed her and thought to put her to work. away from the gates and the stables, the great castle was largely deserted. the noise dwindled behind her. a swirling wind gusted, drawing a high shivery scream from the cracks in the wailing tower. leaves had begun to fall from the trees in the godswood, and she could hear them moving through the deserted courtyards and between the empty buildings, making a faint skittery sound as the wind drove them across the stones. now that harrenhal was near empty once again, sound did queer things here. sometimes the stones seemed to drink up noise, shrouding the yards in a blanket of silence. other times, the echoes had a life of their own, so every footfall became the tread of a ghostly army, and every distant voice a ghostly feast. the funny sounds were one of the things that bothered hot pie, but not arya. quiet as a shadow, she flitted across the middle bailey, around the tower of dread, and through the empty mews, where people said the spirits of dead falcons stirred the air with ghostly wings. she could go where she would. the garrison numbered no more than a hundred men, so small a troop that they were lost in harrenhal. the hall of a hundred hearths was closed off, along with many of the lesser buildings, even the wailing tower. ser amory lorch resided in the castellan's chambers in kingspyre, themselves as spacious as a lord's, and arya and the other servants had moved to the cellars beneath him so they would be close at hand. while lord tywin had been in residence, there was always a man-at-arms wanting to know your business. but now there were only a hundred men left to guard a thousand doors, and no one seemed to know who should be where, or care much. as she passed the armory, arya heard the ring of a hammer. a deep orange glow shone through the high windows. she climbed to the roof and peeked down. gendry was beating out a breastplate. when he worked, nothing existed for him but metal, bellows, fire. the hammer was like part of his arm. she watched the play of muscles in his chest and listened to the steel music he made. he's strong, she thought. as he took up the long-handled tongs to dip the breastplate into the quenching trough, arya slithered through the window and leapt down to the floor beside him. he did not seem surprised to see her. you should be abed, girl. the breastplate hissed like a cat as he dipped it in the cold water. what was all that noise? vargo float's come back with prisoners. i saw their badges. there's a glover, from deepwood motte, he's my father's man. the rest too, mostly. all of a sudden, arya knew why her feet had brought her here. you have to help me get them out. gendry laughed. and how do we do that? ser amory sent them down to the dungeon. the one under the widow's tower, that's just one big cell. you could smash the door open with your hammer- while the guards watch and make bets on how many swings it will take me, maybe? arya chewed her lips. we'd need to kill the guards. how are we supposed to do that? maybe there won't be a lot of them. if there's two, that's too many for you and me. you never learned nothing in that village, did you? you try this and vargo hoat will cut off your hands and feet, the way he does. gendry took up the tongs again. you're afraid. leave me alone, girl. gendry, there's a hundred northmen. maybe more, i couldn't count them all. that's as many as ser amory has. well, not counting the bloody mummers. we just have to get them out and we can take over the castle and escape. well, you can't get them out, no more'n you could save lommy. gendry turned the breastplate with the tongs to look at it closely. and if we did escape, where would we go? winterfell, she said at once. i'd tell mother how you helped me, and you could stay- would m'lady permit? could i shoe your horses for you, and make swords for your lordly brothers? sometimes he made her so angry. you stop that! why should i wager my feet for the chance to sweat in winterfell in place of harrenhal? you know old ben blackthumb? he came here as a boy. smithed for lady whent and her father before her and his father before him, and even for lord lothston who held harrenhal before the whents. now he smiths for lord tywin, and you know what he says? a sword's a sword, a helm's a helm, and if you reach in the fire you get burned, no matter who you're serving. lucan's a fair enough master. i'll stay here. the queen will catch you, then. she didn't send gold cloaks after ben blackthumb! likely it wasn't even me they wanted. it was too, you know it. you're somebody. i'm a 'prentice smith, and one day might be i'll make a master armorer... if i don't run off and lose my feet or get myself killed. he turned away from her, picked up his hammer once more, and began to bang. arya's hands curled into helpless fists. the next helm you make, put mule's ears on it in place of bull's horns! she had to flee, or else she would have started hitting him. he probably wouldn't even feel it if i did. when they find who he is and cut off his stupid mulehead, he'll be sorry he didn't help. she was better off without him anyhow. he was the one who got her caught at the village. but thinking of the village made her remember the march, and the storeroom, and the tickler. she thought of the little boy who'd been hit in the face with the mace, of stupid old all-for- joffrey, of lommy greenhands. i was a sheep, and then i was a mouse, i couldn't do anything but hide. arya chewed her lip and tried to think when her courage had come back. jaqen made me brave again. he made me a ghost instead of a mouse. she had been avoiding the lorathi since weese's death. chiswyck had been easy, anyone could push a man off the wallwalk, but weese had raised that ugly spotted dog from a pup, and only some dark magic could have turned the animal against him. yoren found jaqen in a black cell, the same as rorge and biter, she remembered. jaqen did something horrible and yoren knew, that's why he kept him in chains. if the lorathi was a wizard, rorge and biter could be demons he called up from some hell, not men at all. jaqen still owed her one death. in old nan's stories about men who were given magic wishes by a grumkin, you had to be especially careful with the third wish, because it was the last. chiswyck and weese hadn't been very important. the last death has to count, arya told herself every night when she whispered her names. but now she wondered if that was truly the reason she had hesitated. so long as she could kill with a whisper, arya need not be afraid of anyone... but once she used up the last death, she would only be a mouse again. with pinkeye awake, she dared not go back to her bed. not knowing where else to hide, she made for the godswood. she liked the sharp smell of the pines and sentinels, the feel of grass and dirt between her toes, and the sound the wind made in the leaves. a slow little stream meandered through the wood, and there was one spot where it had eaten the ground away beneath a deadfall. there, beneath rotting wood and twisted splintered branches, she found her hidden sword. gendry was too stubborn to make one for her, so she had made her own by breaking the bristles off a broom. her blade was much too light and had no proper grip, but she liked the sharp jagged splintery end. whenever she had a free hour she stole away to work at the drills syrio had taught her, moving barefoot over the fallen leaves, slashing at branches and whacking down leaves. sometimes she even climbed the trees and danced among the upper branches, her toes gripping the limbs as she moved back and forth, teetering a little less every day as her balance returned to her. night was the best time; no one ever bothered her at night. arya climbed. up in the kingdom of the leaves, she unsheathed and for a time forgot them all, ser amory and the mummers and her father's men alike, losing herself in the feel of rough wood beneath the soles of her feet and the swish of sword through air. a broken branch became joffrey. she struck at it until it fell away. the queen and ser ilyn and ser meryn and the hound were only leaves, but she killed them all as well, slashing them to wet green ribbons. when her arm grew weary, she sat with her legs over a high limb to catch her breath in the cool dark air, listening to the squeak of bats as they hunted. through the leafy canopy she could see the bone- white branches of the heart tree. it looks just like the one in winterfell from here. if only it had been... then when she climbed down she would have been home again, and maybe find her father sitting under the weirwood where he always sat. shoving her sword through her belt, she slipped down branch to branch until she was back on the ground. the light of the moon painted the limbs of the weirwood silvery white as she made her way toward it, but the five -pointed red leaves turned black by night. arya stared at the face carved into its trunk. it was a terrible face, its mouth twisted, its eyes flaring and full of hate. is that what a god looked like? could gods be hurt, the same as people? i should pray, she thought suddenly. arya went to her knees. she wasn't sure how she should begin. she clasped her hands together. help me, you old gods, she prayed silently. help me get those men out of the dungeon so we can kill ser amory, and bring me home to winterfell. make me a water dancer and a wolf and not afraid again, ever. was that enough? maybe she should pray aloud if she wanted the old gods to hear. maybe she should pray longer. sometimes her father had prayed a long time, she remembered. but the old gods had never helped him. remembering that made her angry. you should have saved him, she scolded the tree. he prayed to you all the time. i don't care if you help me or not. i don't think you could even if you wanted to. gods are not mocked, girl. the voice startled her. she leapt to her feet and drew her wooden sword. jaqen h'ghar stood so still in the darkness that he seemed one of the trees. a man comes to hear a name. one and two and then comes three. a man would have done. arya lowered the splintery point toward the ground. how did you know i was here? a man sees. a man hears. a man knows. she regarded him suspiciously. had the gods sent him? how'd you make the dog kill weese? did you call rorge and biter up from hell? is jaqen h'ghar your true name? some men have many names. weasel. arry. arya. she backed away from him, until she was pressed against the heart tree. did gendry tell? a man knows, he said again. my lady of stark. maybe the gods had sent him in answer to her prayers. i need you to help me get those men out of the dungeons. that glover and those others, all of them. we have to kill the guards and open the cell somehow- a girl forgets, he said quietly. two she has had, three were owed. if a guard must die, she needs only speak his name. but one guard won't be enough, we need to kill them all to open the cell. arya bit her lip hard to stop from crying. i want you to save the northmen like i saved you. he looked down at her pitilessly. three lives were snatched from a god. three lives must be repaid. the gods are not mocked. his voice was silk and steel. i never mocked. she thought for a moment. the name... can i name anyone? and you'll kill him? jaqen h'ghar inclined his head. a man has said. anyone? she repeated. a man, a woman, a little baby, or lord tywin, or the high septon, or your father? a man's sire is long dead, but did he live, and did you know his name, he would die at your command. swear it, arya said. swear it by the gods. by all the gods of sea and air, and even him of fire, i swear it. he placed a hand in the mouth of the weirwood. by the seven new gods and the old gods beyond count, i swear it. he has sworn. even if i named the king. speak the name, and death will come. on the morrow, at the turn of the moon, a year from this day, it will come. a man does not fly like a bird, but one foot moves and then another and one day a man is there, and a king dies. he knelt beside her, so they were face-to-face, a girl whispers if she fears to speak aloud. whisper it now. is it joffrey? arya put her lips to his ear. it's jaqen h'ghar. even in the burning barn, with walls of flame towering all around and him in chains, he had not seemed so distraught as he did now. a girl... she makes a jest. you swore. the gods heard you swear. the gods did hear, there was a knife in his hand suddenly, its blade thin as her little finger. whether it was meant for her or him, arya could not say. a girl will weep. a girl will lose her only friend. you're not my friend. a friend would help me. she stepped away from him, balanced on the balls of her feet in case he threw his knife. i'd never kill a friend. jaqen's smile came and went. a girl might... name another name then, if a friend did help? a girl might, she said. if a friend did help. the knife vanished. come. now? she had never thought he would act so quickly. a man hears the whisper of sand in a glass. a man will not sleep until a girl unsays a certain name. now, evil child. i'm not an evil child, she thought, i am a direwolf, and the ghost in harrenhal. she put her broomstick back in its hiding place and followed him from the godswood. despite the hour, harrenhal stirred with fitful life. vargo hoat's arrival had thrown off all the routines. ox carts, oxen, and horses had all vanished from the yard, but the bear cage was still there, it had been hung from the arched span of the bridge that divided the outer and middle wards, suspended on heavy chains, a few feet off the ground. a ring of torches bathed the area in light. some of the boys from the stables were tossing stones to make the bear roar and grumble. across the ward, light spilled through the door of the barracks hall, accompanied by the clatter of tankards and men calling for more wine. a dozen voices took up a song in a guttural tongue strange to arya's ears. they're drinking and eating before they sleep, she realized. pinkeye would have sent to wake me, to help with the serving. he'll know i'm not abed. but likely he was busy pouring for the brave companions and those of ser amory's garrison who had joined them. the noise they were making would be a good distraction. the hungry gods will feast on blood tonight, if a man would do this thing, jaqen said. sweet girl, kind and gentle. unsay one name and say another and cast this mad dream aside. i won't. just so. he seemed resigned. the thing will be done, but a girl must obey. a man has no time for talk. a girl will obey, arya said. what should i do? a hundred men are hungry, they must be fed, the lord commands hot broth. a girl must run to the kitchens and tell her pie boy. broth ' she repeated. where will you be? a girl will help make broth, and wait in the kitchens until a man comes for her. go. run. hot pie was pulling his loaves from the ovens when she burst into the kitchen, but he was no longer alone. they'd woken the cooks to feed vargo hoat and his bloody mummers. serving men were carrying off baskets of hot pie's bread and tarts, the chief cook was carving cold slices off a ham, spit boys were turning rabbits while the pot girls basted them with honey, women were chopping onions and carrots. what do you want, weasel? the chief cook asked when he saw her. broth, she announced. my lord wants broth. he jerked his carving knife at the black iron kettles hung over the flames. what do you think that is? though id soon as piss in it as serve it to that goat. can't even let a man have a night's sleep. he spat. well, never you mind, run back and tell him a kettle can't be hurried, i'm to wait here until it's done. then stay out of the way. or better yet, make yourself of use. run to the buttery; his goatship will be wanting butter and cheese. wake up pia and tell her she'd best be nimble for once, if she wants to keep both of her feet. she ran as fast as she could. pia was awake in the loft, moaning under one of the mummers, but she slipped back into her clothes quick enough when she heard arya shout. she filled six baskets with crocks of butter and big wedges of stinky cheese wrapped in cloth. here, help me with these, she told arya. i can't. but you better hurry or vargo hoat will chop off your foot. she darted off before pia could grab her. on the way back, she wondered why none of the captives had their hands or feet chopped off. maybe vargo hoat was afraid to make robb angry. though he didn't seem the sort to be afraid of anyone. hot pie was stirring the kettles with a long wooden spoon when arya returned to the kitchens. she grabbed up a second spoon and started to help. for a moment she thought maybe she should tell him, but then she remembered the village and decided not to. he'd only yield again. then she heard the ugly sound of rorge's voice. cook, he shouted. we'll take your bloody broth. arya let go of the spoon in dismay. i never told him to bring them. rorge wore his iron helmet, with the nasal that half hid his missing nose. jaqen and biter followed him into the kitchen. the bloody broth isn't bloody ready yet, the cook said. it needs to simmer. we only now put in the onions and- shut your hole, or i'll shove a spit up your ass and we'll baste you for a turn or two. i said broth and i said now. hissing, biter grabbed a handful of half-charred rabbit right off the spit, and tore into it with his pointed teeth while honey dripped between his fingers. the cook was beaten. take your bloody broth, then, but if the goat asks why it tastes so thin, you tell him. biter licked the grease and honey off his fingers as jaqen hghar donned a pair of heavy padded mitts. he gave a second pair to arya. a weasel will help. the broth was boiling hot, and the kettles were heavy. arya and jaqen wrestled one between them, rorge carried one by himself, and biter grabbed two more, hissing in pain when the handles burned his hands. even so, he did not drop them. they lugged the kettles out of the kitchens and across the ward. two guards had been posted at the door of the widow's tower. what's this? one said to rorge. a pot of boiling piss, want some? jaqen smiled disarmingly. a prisoner must eat too. no one said nothing about- arya cut him off. it's for them, not you. the second guard waved them past. bring it down, then. inside the door a winding stair led down to the dungeons. rorge led the way, with jaqen and arya bringing up the rear. a girl will stay out of the way, he told her. the steps opened onto a dank stone vault, long, gloomy, and windowless. a few torches burned in sconces at the near end where a group of ser amory's guards sat around a scarred wooden table, talking and playing at tiles. heavy iron bars separated them from where the captives were crowded together in the dark. the smell of the broth brought many up to the bars. arya counted eight guards. they smelled the broth as well. there's the ugliest serving wench i ever saw, their captain said to rorge. what's in the kettle? your cock and balls. you want to eat or not? one of the guards had been pacing, one standing near the bars, a third sitting on the floor with his back to the wall, but the prospect of food drew all of them to the table. about bloody time they fed us. that onions i smell? so where's the bread? fuck, we need bowls, cups, spoons- no you don't. rorge heaved the scalding hot broth across the table, full in their faces. jaqen h'ghar did the same. biter threw his kettles too, swinging them underarm so they spun across the dungeon, raining soup. one caught the captain in the temple as he tried to rise. he went down like a sack of sand and lay still. the rest were screaming in agony, praying, or trying to crawl off. arya pressed back against the wall as rorge began to cut throats. biter preferred to grab the men behind the head and under the chin and crack their necks with a single twist of his huge pale hands. only one of the guards managed to get a blade out. jaqen danced away from his slash, drew his own sword, drove the man back into a corner with a flurry of blows, and killed him with a thrust to the heart. the lorathi brought the blade to arya still red with heart's blood and wiped it clean on the front of her shift. a girl should be bloody too. this is her work. the key to the cell hung from a hook on the wall above the table. rorge took it down and opened the door. the first man through was the lord with the mailed fist on his surcoat. well done, he said. i am robett glover. my lord. jaqen gave him a bow. once freed, the captives stripped the dead guards of their weapons and darted up the steps with steel in hand. their fellows crowded after them, bare-handed. they went swiftly, and with scarcely a word. none of them seemed quite so badly wounded as they had when vargo hoat had marched them through the gates of harrenhal. this of the soup, that was clever, the man glover was saying. i did not expect that. was it lord hoat's idea? rorge began to laugh. he laughed so hard that snot flew out the hole where his nose had been. biter sat on top of one of the dead men, holding a limp hand as he gnawed at the fingers. bones cracked between his teeth. who are you men? a crease appeared between robett glover's brows. you were not with hoat when he came to lord bolton's encampment. are you of the brave companions? rorge wiped the snot off his chin with the back of his hand. we are now. this man has the honor to be jaqen h'ghar, once of the free city of lorath. this man's discourteous companions are named rorge and biter. a lord will know which is biter. he waved a hand toward arya. and here- i'm weasel, she blurted, before he could tell who she really was. she did not want her name said here, where rorge might hear, and biter, and all these others she did not know. she saw glover dismiss her. very well, he said. let's make an end to this bloody business. when they climbed back up the winding stair, they found the door guards lying in pools of their own blood. northmen were running across the ward. arya heard shouts. the door of barracks hall burst open and a wounded man staggered out screaming. three others ran after him and silenced him with spear and sword. there was fighting around the gatehouse as well. rorge and biter rushed off with glover, but jaqen h'ghar knelt beside arya. a girl does not understand? yes i do, she said, though she didn't, not truly. the lorathi must have seen it on her face. a goat has no loyalty. soon a wolf banner is raised here, i think. but first a man would hear a certain name unsaid. i take back the name. arya chewed her lip. do i still have a third death? a girl is greedy. jaqen touched one of the dead guards and showed her his bloody fingers. here is three and there is four and eight more lie dead below. the debt is paid. the debt is paid, arya agreed reluctantly. she felt a little sad. now she was just a mouse again. a god has his due. and now a man must die. a strange smile touched the lips of jaqen h'ghar. die? she said, confused. what did he mean? but i unsaid the name. you don't need to die now. i do. my time is done. jaqen passed a hand down his face from forehead to chin, and where it went he changed. his cheeks grew fuller, his eyes closer; his nose hooked, a scar appeared on his right cheek where no scar had been before. and when he shook his head, his long straight hair, half red and half white, dissolved away to reveal a cap of tight black curls. arya's mouth hung open. who are you? she whispered, too astonished to be afraid. how did you do that? was it hard? he grinned, revealing a shiny gold tooth. no harder than taking a new name, if you know the way. show me, she blurted. i want to do it too. if you would learn, you must come with me. arya grew hesitant. where? far and away, across the narrow sea. i can't. i have to go home. to winterfell. then we must part, he said, for i have duties too. he lifted her hand and pressed a small coin into her palm. here. what is it? a coin of great value. arya bit it. it was so hard it could only be iron. is it worth enough to buy a horse? it is not meant for the buying of horses. then what good is it? as well ask what good is life, what good is death? if the day comes when you would find me again, give that coin to any man from braavos, and say these words to him-valar morghulis. valar morghulis, arya repeated. it wasn't hard. her fingers closed tight over the coin. across the yard, she could hear men dying. please don't go, jaqen. jaqen is as dead as arry, he said sadly, and i have promises to keep. valar morghulis, arya stark. say it again. valar morghulis, she said once more, and the stranger in jaqen's clothes bowed to her and stalked off through the darkness, cloak swirling. she was alone with the dead men. they deserved to die, arya told herself, remembering all those ser amory lorch had killed at the holdfast by the lake. the cellars under kingspyre were empty when she returned to her bed of straw. she whispered her names to her pillow, and when she was done she added, valar morghulis, in a small soft voice, wondering what it meant. come dawn, pinkeye and the others were back, all but one boy who'd been killed in the fighting for no reason that anyone could say. pinkeye went up alone to see how matters stood by light of day, complaining all the while that his old bones could not abide steps. when he returned, he told them that harrenhal had been taken. them bloody mummers killed some of ser amory's lot in their beds, and the rest at table after they were good and drunk. the new lord will be here before the day's out, with his whole host. he's from the wild north up where that wall is, and they say he's a hard one. this lord or that lord, there's still work to be done. any foolery and i'll whip the skin off your back. he looked at arya when he said that, but never said a word to her about where she had been the night before. all morning she watched the bloody mummers strip the dead of their valuables and drag the corpses to the flowstone yard, where a pyre was laid to dispose of them. shagwell the fool hacked the heads off two dead knights and pranced about the castle swinging them by the hair and making them talk. what did you die of? one head asked. hot weasel soup, replied the second. arya was set to mopping up dried blood. no one said a word to her beyond the usual, but every so often she would notice people looking at her strangely. robett glover and the other men they'd freed must have talked about what had happened down in the dungeon, and then shagwell and his stupid talking heads started in about the weasel soup. she would have told him to shut up, but she was scared to. the fool was half-mad, and she'd heard that he'd once killed a man for not laughing at one of his japes. he better shut his mouth or i put him on my list with the rest, she thought as she scrubbed at a reddish-brown stain. it was almost evenfall when the new master of harrenhal arrived. he had a plain face, beardless and ordinary, notable only for his queer pale eyes. neither plump, thin, nor muscular, he wore black ringmail and a spotted pink cloak. the sigil on his banner looked like a man dipped in blood. on your knees for the lord of the dreadfort! shouted his squire, a boy no older than arya, and harrenhal knelt. vargo hoat came forward. my lord, harrenhal ith yourth. the lord gave answer, but too softly for arya to hear. robett glover and ser aenys frey, freshly bathed and clad in clean new doublets and cloaks, came up to join them. after some brief talk, ser aenys led them over to rorge and biter. arya was surprised to see them still here; somehow she would have expected them to vanish when jaqen did. arya heard the harsh sound of rorge's voice, but not what he was saying. then shagwell pounced on her, dragging her out across the yard. my lord, my lord, he sang, tugging at her wrist, here's the weasel who made the soup! let go, arya said, wriggling out of his grasp. the lord regarded her. only his eyes moved; they were very pale, the color of ice. how old are you, child? she had to think for a moment to remember. ten. ten, my lord, he reminded her. are you fond of animals? some kinds. my lord. a thin smile twitched across his lips. but not lions, it would seem. nor manticores. she did not know what to say to that, so she said nothing. they tell me you are called weasel. that will not serve. what name did your mother give you? she bit her lip, groping for another name. lommy had called her lumpyhead, sansa used horseface, and her father's men once dubbed her arya underfoot, but she did not think any of those were the sort of name he wanted. nymeria, she said. only she called me nan for short. you will call me my lord when you speak to me, nan, the lord said mildly. you are too young to be a brave companion, i think, and of the wrong sex. are you afraid of leeches, child? they're only leeches. my lord. my squire could take a lesson from you, it would seem. frequent leechings are the secret of a long life. a man must purge himself of bad blood. you will do, i think. for so long as i remain at harrenhal, nan, you shall be my cupbearer, and serve me at table and in chambers. this time she knew better than to say that she'd sooner work in the stables. yes, your lord. i mean, my lord. the lord waved a hand. make her presentable, he said to no one in particular, and make certain she knows how to pour wine without spilling it. turning away, he lifted a hand and said, lord hoat, see to those banners above the gatehouse. four brave companions climbed to the ramparts and hauled down the lion of lannister and ser amory's own black manticore. in their place they raised the flayed man of the dreadfort and the direwolf of stark. and that evening, a page named nan poured wine for roose bolton and vargo hoat as they stood on the gallery, watching the brave companions parade ser amory lorch naked through the middle ward. ser amory pleaded and sobbed and clung to the legs of his captors, until rorge pulled him loose, and shagwell kicked him down into the bear pit. the bear is all in black, arya thought. like yoren. she filled roose bolton's cup, and did not spill a drop. the heads had been dipped in tar to slow the rot. every morning when arya went to the well to draw fresh water for roose bolton's basin, she had to pass beneath them. they faced outward, so she never saw their faces, but she liked to pretend that one of them was joffrey's. she tried to picture how his pretty face would look dipped in tar. if i was a crow i could fly down and peck off his stupid fat pouty lips. the heads never lacked for attendants. the carrion crows wheeled about the gatehouse in raucous unkindness and quarreled upon the ramparts over every eye, screaming and cawing at each other and taking to the air whenever a sentry passed along the battlements. sometimes the maester's ravens joined the feast as well, flapping down from the rookery on wide black wings. when the ravens came the crows would scatter, only to return the moment the larger birds were gone. do the ravens remember maester tothmure? arya wondered. are they sad for him? when they quork at him, do they wonder why he doesn't answer? perhaps the dead could speak to them in some secret tongue the living could not hear. tothmure had been sent to the axe for dispatching birds to casterly rock and king's landing the night harrenhal had fallen, luc an the armorer for making weapons for the lannisters, goodwife harra for telling lady whent's household to serve them, the steward for giving lord tywin the keys to the treasure vault. the cook was spared (some said because he'd made the weasel soup), but stocks were hammered together for pretty pia and the other women who'd shared their favors with lannister soldiers. stripped and shaved, they were left in the middle ward beside the bear pit, free for the use of any man who wanted them. three frey men-at-arms were using them that morning as arya went to the well. she tried not to look, but she could hear the men laughing. the pail was very heavy once full. she was turning to bring it back to kingspyre when goodwife amabel seized her arm. the water went sloshing over the side onto amabel's legs. you did that on purpose, the woman screeched. what do you want? arya squirmed in her grasp. amabel had been half-crazed since they'd cut harra 's head off. see there? amabel pointed across the yard at pia. when this northman falls you'll be where she is. let me go. she tried to wrench free, but amabel only tightened her fingers. he will fall too, harrenhal pulls them all down in the end. lord tywin's won now, he'll be marching back with all his power, and then it will be his turn to punish the disloyal. and don't think he won't know what you did! the old woman laughed. i may have a turn at you myself. harra had an old broom, i'll save it for you. the handle's cracked and splintery- arya swung the bucket. the weight of the water made it turn in her hands, so she didn't smash amabel's head in as she wanted, but the woman let go of her anyway when the water came out and drenched her. don't ever touch me, arya shouted, or i'll kill you. you get away. sopping, goodwife amabel jabbed a thin finger at the flayed man on the front of arya's tunic. you think you're safe with that little bloody man on your teat, but you're not! the lannisters are coming! see what happens when they get here. three-quarters of the water had splashed out on the ground, so arya had to return to the well. if i told lord bolton what she said, her head would be up next to harra's before it got dark, she thought as she drew up the bucket again. she wouldn't, though. once, when there had been only half as many heads, gendry had caught arya looking at them. admiring your work? he asked. he was angry because he'd liked lucan, she knew, but it still wasn't fair. it's steelshanks walton's work, she said defensively. and the mummers, and lord bolton. and who gave us all them? you and your weasel soup. arya punched his arm. it was just hot broth. you hated ser amory too. i hate this lot worse. ser amory was fighting for his lord, but the mummers are sellswords and turncloaks. half of them can't even speak the common tongue. septon utt likes little boys, qyburn does black magic, and your friend biter eats people. the worst thing was, she couldn't even say he was wrong. the brave companions did most of the foraging for harrenhal, and roose bolton had given them the task of rooting out lannisters. vargo hoat had divided them into four bands, to visit as many villages as possible. he led the largest group himself, and gave the others to his most trusted captains. she had heard rorge laughing over lord vargo 's way of finding traitors. all he did was return to places he had visited before under lord tywin's banner and seize those who had helped him. many had been bought with lannister silver, so the mummers often returned with bags of coin as well as baskets of heads. a riddle! shagwell would shout gleefully. if lord bolton's goat eats the men who fed lord lannister's goat, how many goats are there? one, arya said when he asked her. now there's a weasel clever as a goat! the fool tittered. rorge and biter were as bad as the others. whenever lord bolton took a meal with the garrison, arya would see them there among the rest. biter gave off a stench like bad cheese, so the brave companions made him sit down near the foot of the table where he could grunt and hiss to himself and tear his meat apart with fingers and teeth. he would sniff at arya when she passed, but it was rorge who scared her most. he sat up near faithful ursywck, but she could feel his eyes crawling over her as she went about her duties. sometimes she wished she had gone off across the narrow sea with jaqen h'ghar. she still had the stupid coin he'd given her, a piece of iron no larger than a penny and rusted along the rim. one side had writing on it, queer words she could not read. the other showed a man's head, but so worn that all his features had rubbed off. he said it was of great value, but that was probably a lie too, like his name and even his face. that made her so angry that she threw the coin away, but after an hour she got to feeling bad and went and found it again, even though it wasn't worth anything. she was thinking about the coin as she crossed the flowstone yard, struggling with the weight of the water in her pail. nan, a voice called out. put down that pail and come help me. elmar frey was no older than she was, and short for his age besides. he had been rolling a barrel of sand across the uneven stone, and was red- faced from exertion. arya went to help him. together they pushed the barrel all the way to the wall and back again, then stood it upright. she could hear the sand shifting around inside as elmar pried open the lid and pulled out a chainmail hauberk. do you think it's clean enough? as roose bolton's squire, it was his task to keep his mail shiny bright. you need to shake out the sand. there's still spots of rust. see? she pointed. you'd best do it again. you do it. elmar could be friendly when he needed help, but afterward he would always remember that he was a squire and she was only a serving girl, he liked to boast how he was the son of the lord of the crossing, not a nephew or a bastard or a grandson but a trueborn son, and on account of that he was going to marry a princess. arya didn't care about his precious princess, and didn't like him giving her commands. i have to bring m'lord water for his basin. he's in his bedchamber being leeched. not the regular black leeches but the big pale ones. elmar's eyes got as big as boiled eggs. leeches terrified him, especially the big pale ones that looked like jelly until they filled up with blood. i forgot, you're too skinny to push such a heavy barrel. i forgot, you're stupid. arya picked up the pail. maybe you should get leeched too. there's leeches in the neck as big as pigs. she left him there with his barrel. the lord's bedchamber was crowded when she entered. qyburn was in attendance, and dour walton in his mail shirt and greaves, plus a dozen freys, all brothers, half brothers, and cousins. roose bolton lay abed, naked. leeches clung to the inside of his arms and legs and dotted his pallid chest, long translucent things that turned a glistening pink as they fed. bolton paid them no more mind than he did arya. we must not allow lord tywin to trap us here at harrenhal ser aenys frey was saying as arya filled the washbasin. a grey stooped giant of a man with watery red eyes and huge gnarled hands, ser aenys had brought fifteen hundred frey swords south to harrenhal, yet it often seemed as if he were helpless to command even his own brothers. the castle is so large it requires an army to hold it, and once surrounded we cannot feed an army. nor can we hope to lay in sufficient supplies, the country is ash, the villages given over to wolves, the harvest burnt or stolen. autumn is on us, yet there is no food in store and none being planted. we live on forage, and if the lannisters deny that to us, we will be down to rats and shoe leather in a moon's turn. i do not mean to be besieged here. roose bolton's voice was so soft that men had to strain to hear it, so his chambers were always strangely hushed. what, then? demanded ser jared frey, who was lean, balding, and pockmarked. is edmure tully so drunk on his victory that he thinks to give lord tywin battle in the open field? if he does he'll beat them, arya thought. he'll beat them as he did on the red fork, you'll see. unnoticed, she went to stand by qyburn. lord tywin is many leagues from here, bolton said calmly. he has many matters yet to settle at king's landing. he will not march on harrenhal for some time. ser aenys shook his head stubbornly. you do not know the lannisters as we do, my lord. king stannis thought that lord tywin was a thousand leagues away as well, and it undid him. the pale man in the bed smiled faintly as the leeches nursed of his blood. i am not a man to be undone, ser. even if riverrun marshals all its strength and the young wolf wins back from the west, how can we hope to match the numbers lord tywin can send against us? when he comes, he will come with far more power than he commanded on the green fork. highgarden has joined itself to joffrey's cause, i remind you! i had not forgotten. i have been lord tywin' s captive once, said ser hosteen, a husky man with a square face who was said to be the strongest of the freys. i have no wish to enjoy lannister hospitality again. ser harys haigh, who was a frey on his mother's side, nodded vigorously. if lord tywin could defeat a seasoned man like stannis baratheon, what chance will our boy king have against him? he looked round to his brothers and cousins for support, and several of them muttered agreement. someone must have the courage to say it, ser hosteen said. the war is lost. king robb must be made to see that. roose bolton studied him with pale eyes. his grace has defeated the lannisters every time he has faced them in battle. he has lost the north, insisted hosteen frey. he has lost winterfell! his brothers are dead... for a moment arya forgot to breathe. dead? bran and rickon, dead? what does he mean? what does he mean about winterfell, joffrey could never take winterfell, never, robb would never let him. then she remembered that robb was not at winterfell. he was away in the west, and bran was crippled, and rickon only four. it took all her strength to remain still and silent, the way syrio forel had taught her, to stand there like a stick of furniture. she felt tears gathering in her eyes, and willed them away. it's not true, it can't be true, it's just some lannister lie. had stannis won, all might have been different, ronel rivers said wistfully. he was one of lord walder's bastards. stannis lost, ser hosteen said bluntly. wishing it were otherwise will not make it so. king robb must make his peace with the lannisters. he must put off his crown and bend the knee, little as he may like it. and who will tell him so? roose bolton smiled. it is a fine thing to have so many valiant brothers in such troubled times. i shall think on all you've said. his smile was dismissal. the freys made their courtesies and shuffled out, leaving only qyburn, steelshanks walton, and arya. lord bolton beckoned her closer. i am bled sufficiently. nan, you may remove the leeches. at once, my lord. it was best never to make roose bolton ask twice. arya wanted to ask him what ser hosteen had meant about winterfell, but she dared not. i'll ask elmar, she thought. elmar will tell me. the leeches wriggled slowly between her fingers as she plucked them carefully from the lord's body, their pale bodies moist to the touch and distended with blood. they're only leeches, she reminded herself. if i closed my hand, they'd squish between my fingers. there is a letter from your lady wife. qyburn pulled a roll of parchment from his sleeve. though he wore maester's robes, there was no chain about his neck; it was whispered that he had lost it for dabbling in necromancy. you may read it, bolton said. the lady walda wrote from the twins almost every day, but all the letters were the same. i pray for you morn, noon, and night, my sweet lord, she wrote, and count the days until you share my bed again. return to me soon, and i will give you many trueborn sons to take the place of your dear domeric and rule the dreadfort after you. arya pictured a plump pink baby in a cradle, covered with plump pink leeches. she brought lord bolton a damp washcloth to wipe down his soft hairless body. i will send a letter of my own, he told the onetime maester. to the lady walda? to ser helman tallhart. a rider from ser helman had come two days past. tallhart men had taken the castle of the darrys, accepting the surrender of its lannister garrison after a brief siege. tell him to put the captives to the sword and the castle to the torch, by command of the king. then he is to join forces with robett glover and strike east toward duskendale. those are rich lands, and hardly touched by the fighting. it is time they had a taste. glover has lost a castle, and tallhart a son. let them take their vengeance on duskendale. i shall prepare the message for your seal, my lord. arya was glad to hear that the castle of the darrys would be burned. that was where they'd brought her when she'd been caught after her fight with joffrey, and where the queen had made her father kill sansa's wolf. it deserves to burn. she wished that robett glover and ser helman tallhart would come back to harrenhal, though; they had marched too quickly, before she'd been able to decide whether to trust them with her secret. i will hunt today, roose bolton announced as qyburn helped him into a quilted jerkin. is it safe, my lord? qyburn asked. only three days past, septon utt's men were attacked by wolves. they came right into his camp, not five yards from the fire, and killed two horses. it is wolves i mean to hunt. i can scarcely sleep at night for the howling. bolton buckled on his belt, adjusting the hang of sword and dagger. it's said that direwolves once roamed the north in great packs of a hundred or more, and feared neither man nor mammoth, but that was long ago and in another land. it is queer to see the common wolves of the south so bold. terrible times breed terrible things, my lord. bolton showed his teeth in something that might have been a smile. are these times so terrible, maester? summer is gone and there are four kings in the realm. one king may be terrible, but four? he shrugged. nan, my fur cloak. she brought it to him. my chambers will be clean and orderly upon my return, he told her as she fastened it. and tend to lady walda's letter. as you say, my lord. the lord and maester swept from the room, giving her not so much as a backward glance. when they were gone, arya took the letter and carried it to the hearth, stirring the logs with a poker to wake the flames anew. she watched the parchment twist, blacken, and flare up. if the lannisters hurt bran and rickon, robb will kill them every one. he'll never bend the knee, never, never, never. he's not afraid of any of them. curls of ash floated up the chimney. arya squatted beside the fire, watching them rise through a veil of hot tears. if winterfell is truly gone, is this my home now? am i still arya, or only nan the serving girl, for forever and forever and forever? she spent the next few hours tending to the lord's chambers. she swept out the old rushes and scattered fresh sweetsmelling ones, laid a fresh fire in the hearth, changed the linens and fluffed the featherbed, emptied the chamber pots down the privy shaft and scrubbed them out, carried an armload of soiled clothing to the washerwomen, and brought up a bowl of crisp autumn pears from the kitchen. when she was done with the bedchamber, she went down half a flight of stairs to do the same in the great solar, a spare drafty room as large as the halls of many a smaller castle. the candles were down to stubs, so arya changed them out. under the windows was a huge oaken table where the lord wrote his letters. she stacked the books, changed the candles, put the quills and inks and sealing wax in order. a large ragged sheepskin was tossed across the papers. arya had started to roll it up when the colors caught her eye: the blue of lakes and rivers, the red dots where castles and citie's could be found, the green of woods. she spread it out instead. the lands of the trident, said the ornate script beneath the map. the drawing showed everything from the neck to the blackwater rush. there's harrenhal at the top of the big lake, she realized, but where's riverrun? then she saw. it's not so far... the afternoon was still young by the time she was done, so arya took herself off to the godswood. her duties were lighter as lord bolton's cupbearer than they had been under weese or even pinkeye, though they required dressing like a page and washing more than she liked. the hunt would not return for hours, so she had a little time for her needlework. she slashed at birch leaves till the splintery point of the broken broomstick was green and sticky. ser gregor, she breathed. dunsen, polliver, raff the sweetling. she spun and leapt and balanced on the balls of her feet, darting this way and that, knocking pinecones flying. the tickler, she called out one time, the hound, the next. ser ilyn, ser meryn, queen cersei. the bole of an oak loomed before her, and she lunged to drive her point through it, grunting joffrey, joffrey, joffrey. her arms and legs were dappled by sunlight and the shadows of leaves. a sheen of sweat covered her skin by the time she paused. the heel of her right foot was bloody where she'd skinned it, so she stood one-legged before the heart tree and raised her sword in salute. valar morghulis, she told the old gods of the north. she liked how the words sounded when she said them. as arya crossed the yard to the bathhouse, she spied a raven circling down toward the rookery, and wondered where it had come from and what message it carried. might be it's from robb, come to say it wasn't true about bran and rickon. she chewed on her lip, hoping. if i had wings i could fly back to winterfell and see for myself. and if it was true, i'd just fly away, fly up past the moon and the shining stars, and see all the things in old nan's stories, dragons and sea monsters and the titan of braavos, and maybe i wouldn't ever fly back unless i wanted to. the hunting party returned near evenfall with nine dead wolves. seven were adults, big grey- brown beasts, savage and powerful, their mouths drawn back over long yellow teeth by their dying snarls. but the other two had only been pups. lord bolton gave orders for the skins to be sewn into a blanket for his bed. cubs still have that soft fur, my lord, one of his men pointed out. make you a nice warm pair of gloves. bolton glanced up at the banners waving above the gatehouse towers. as the starks are wont to remind us, winter is coming. have it done. when he saw arya looking on, he said, nan, i'll want a flagon of hot spice wine, i took a chill in the woods. see that it doesn't get cold. i'm of a mind to sup alone. barley bread, butter, and boar. at once, my lord. that was always the best thing to say. hot pie was making oatcakes when she entered the kitchen. three other cooks were boning fish, while a spit boy turned a boar over the flames. my lord wants his supper, and hot spice wine to wash it down, arya announced, and he doesn't want it cold. one of the cooks washed his hands, took out a kettle, and filled it with a heavy, sweet red. hot pie was told to crumble in the spices as the wine heated. arya went to help. i can do it, he said sullenly. i don't need you to show me how to spice wine. he hates me too, or else he's scared of me. she backed away, more sad than angry. when the food was ready, the cooks covered it with a silver cover and wrapped the flagon in a thick towel to keep it warm. dusk was settling outside. on the walls the crows muttered round the heads like courtiers round a king. one of the guards held the door to kingspyre. hope that's not weasel soup, he jested. roose bolton was seated by the hearth reading from a thick leatherbound book when she entered. light some candles, he commanded her as he turned a page. it grows gloomy in here. she placed the food at his elbow and did as he bid her, filling the room with flickering light and the scent of cloves. bolton turned a few more pages with his finger, then closed the book and placed it carefully in the fire. he watched the flames consume it, pale eyes shining with reflected light. the old dry leather went up with a whoosh, and the yellow pages stirred as they burned, as if some ghost were reading them. i will have no further need of you tonight, he said, never looking at her. she should have gone, silent as a mouse, but something had hold of her. my lord, she asked, will you take me with you when you leave harrenhal?  he turned to stare at her, and from the look in his eyes it was as if his supper had just spoken to him. did i give you leave to question me, nan? no, my lord. she lowered her eyes. you should not have spoken, then. should you? no. my lord. for a moment he looked amused. i will answer you, just this once. i mean to give harrenhal to lord vargo when i return to the north. you will remain here, with him. but i don't- she started. he cut her off. i am not in the habit of being questioned by servants, nan. must i have your tongue out? he would do it as easily as another man might cuff a dog, she knew. no, my lord. then i'll hear no more from you? no, my lord. go, then. i shall forget this insolence. arya went, but not to her bed. when she stepped out into the darkness of the yard, the guard on the door nodded at her and said, storm coming. smell the air? the wind was gusting, flames swirling off the torches mounted atop the walls beside the rows of heads. on her way to the godswood, she passed the wailing tower where once she had lived in fear of weese. the freys had taken it for their own since harrenhal's fall. she could hear angry voices coming from a window, many men talking and arguing all at once. elmar was sitting on the steps outside, alone. what's wrong? arya asked him when she saw the tears shining on his cheeks. my princess, he sobbed. we've been dishonored, aenys says. there was a bird from the twins. my lord father says i'll need to marry someone else, or be a septon. a stupid princess, she thought, that's nothing to cry over. my brothers might be dead, she confided. elmar gave her a scornful look. no one cares about a serving girl's brothers. it was hard not to hit him when he said that. i hope your princess dies she said, and ran off before he could grab her. in the godswood she found her broomstick sword where she had left it, and carried it to the heart tree. there she knelt. red leaves rustled. red eyes peered inside her. the eyes of the gods. tell me what to do, you gods, she prayed. for a long moment there was no sound but the wind and the water and the creak of leaf and limb. and then, far far off, beyond the godswood and the haunted towers and the immense stone walls of harrenhal, from somewhere out in the world, came the long lonely howl of a wolf. gooseprickles rose on arya's skin, and for an instant she felt dizzy. then, so faintly, it seemed as if she heard her father's voice. when the snows fall and the white winds blow, the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives, he said. but there is no pack, she whispered to the weirwood. bran and rickon were dead, the lannisters had sansa, jon had gone to the wall. i'm not even me now, i'm nan. you are arya of winterfell, daughter of the north. you told me you could be strong. you have the wolf blood in you. the wolf blood. arya remembered now. i'll be as strong as robb. i said i would. she took a deep breath, then lifted the broomstick in both hands and brought it down across her knee. it broke with a loud crack, and she threw the pieces aside. i am a direwolf, and done with wooden teeth. that night she lay in her narrow bed upon the scratchy straw, listening to the voices of the living and the dead whisper and argue as she waited for the moon to rise. they were the only voices she trusted anymore. she could hear the sound of her own breath, and the wolves as well, a great pack of them now. they are closer than the one i heard in the godswood, she thought. they are calling to me. finally she slipped from under the blanket, wriggled into a tunic, and padded barefoot down the stairs. roose bolton was a cautious man, and the entrance to kingspyre was guarded day and night, so she had to slip out of a narrow cellar window. the yard was still, the great castle lost in haunted dreams. above, the wind keened through the wailing tower. at the forge she found the fires extinguished and the doors closed and barred. she crept in a window, as she had once before. gendry shared a mattress with two other apprentice smiths. she crouched in the loft for a long time before her eyes adjusted enough for her to be sure that he was the one on the end. then she put a hand over his mouth and pinched him. his eyes opened. he could not have been very deeply asleep. please, she whispered. she took her hand off his mouth and pointed. for a moment she did not think he understood, but then he slid out from under the blankets. naked, he padded across the room, shrugged into a loose roughspun tunic, and climbed down from the loft after her. the other sleepers did not stir. what do you want now? gendry said in a low angry voice. a sword. blackthumb keeps all the blades locked up, i told you that a hundred times. is this for lord leech? for me. break the lock with your hammer. they'll break my hand, he grumbled. or worse. not if you run off with me. run, and they'll catch you and kill you. they'll do you worse. lord bolton is giving harrenhal to the bloody mummers, he told me so. gendry pushed black hair out of his eyes. so? she looked right at him, fearless. so when vargo hoat's the lord, he's going to cut off the feet of all the servants to keep them from running away. the smiths too. that's only a story, he said scornfully. no, it's true, i heard lord vargo say so, she lied. he's going to cut one foot off everyone. the left one. go to the kitchens and wake hot pie, he'll do what you say. we'll need bread or oakcakes or something. you get the swords and i'll do the horses. we'll meet near the postern in the east wall, behind the tower of ghosts. no one ever comes there. i know that gate. it's guarded, same as the rest. so? you won't forget the swords? i never said i'd come. no. but if you do, you won't forget the swords? he frowned. no, he said at last. i guess i won't. arya reentered kingspyre the same way she had left it, and stole up the winding steps listening for footfalls. in her cell, she stripped to the skin and dressed herself carefully, in two layers of smallclothes, warm stockings, and her cleanest tunic. it was lord bolton's livery. on the breast was sewn his sigil, the flayed man of the dreadfort. she tied her shoes, threw a wool cloak over her skinny shoulders, and knotted it under her throat. quiet as a shadow, she moved back down the stairs. outside the lord's solar she paused to listen at the door, easing it open slowly when she heard only silence. the sheepskin map was on the table, beside the remains of lord bolton's supper. she rolled it up tight and thrust it through her belt. he'd left his dagger on the table as well, so she took that too, just in case gendry lost his courage. a horse neighed softly as she slipped into the darkened stables. the grooms were all asleep. she prodded one with her toe until he sat up groggily and said, eh? whas? lord bolton requires three horses saddled and bridled. the boy got to his feet, pushing straw from his hair. wha, at this hour? horses, you say? he blinked at the sigil on her tunic. whas he want horses for, in the dark? lord bolton is not in the habit of being questioned by servants. she crossed her arms. the stableboy was still looking at the flayed man. he knew what it meant. three, you say? one two three. hunting horses. fast and surefoot. arya helped him with the bridles and saddles, so he would not need to wake any of the others. she hoped they would not hurt him afterward, but she knew they probably would. leading the horses across the castle was the worst part. she stayed in the shadow of the curtain wall whenever she could, so the sentries walking their rounds on the ramparts above would have needed to look almost straight down to see her. and if they do, what of it? i'm my lord's own cupbearer. it was a chill dank autumn night. clouds were blowing in from the west, hiding the stars, and the wailing tower screamed mournfully at every gust of wind. it smells like rain. arya did not know whether that would be good or bad for their escape. no one saw her, and she saw no one, only a grey and white cat creeping along atop the godswood wall. it stopped and spit at her, waking memories of the red keep and her father and syrio forel. i could catch you if i wanted, she called to it softly, but i have to go, cat. the cat hissed again and ran off. the tower of ghosts was the most ruinous of harrenhaps five immense towers. it stood dark and desolate behind the remains of a collapsed sept where only rats had come to pray for near three hundred years. it was there she waited to see if gendry and hot pie would come. it seemed as though she waited a long time. the horses nibbled at the weeds that grew up between the broken stones while the clouds swallowed the last of the stars. arya took out the dagger and sharpened it to keep her hands busy. long smooth strokes, the way syrio had taught her. the sound calmed her. she heard them coming long before she saw them. hot pie was breathing heavily, and once he stumbled in the dark, barked his shin, and cursed loud enough to wake half of harrenhal. gendry was quieter, but the swords he was carrying rang together as he moved. here i am. she stood. be quiet or they'll hear you. the boys picked their way toward her over tumbled stones. gendry was wearing oiled chainmail under his cloak, she saw, and he had his blacksmith's hammer slung across his back. hot pie's red round face peered out from under a hood. he had a sack of bread dangling from his right hand and a big wheel of cheese under his left arm. there's a guard on that postern, said gendry quietly. i told you there would be. you stay here with the horses, said arya. i'll get rid of him. come quick when i call. gendry nodded. hot pie said, hoot like an owl when you want us to come. i'm not an owl, said arya. i'm a wolf. i'll howl. alone, she slid through the shadow of the tower of ghosts. she walked fast, to keep ahead of her fear, and it felt as though syrio forel walked beside her, and yoren, and jaqen h'ghar, and jon snow. she had not taken the sword gendry had brought her, not yet. for this the dagger would be better. it was good and sharp. this postern was the least of harrenhal's gates, a narrow door of stout oak studded with iron nails, set in an angle of the wall beneath a defensive tower. only one man was set to guard it, but she knew there would be sentries up in that tower as well, and others nearby walking the walls. whatever happened, she must be quiet as a shadow. he must not call out. a few scattered raindrops had begun to fall. she felt one land on her brow and run slowly down her nose. she made no effort to hide, but approached the guard openly, as if lord bolton himself had sent her. he watched her come, curious as to what might bring a page here at this black hour. when she got closer, she saw that he was a northman, very tall and thin, huddled in a ragged fur cloak. that was bad. she might have been able to trick a frey or one of the brave companions, but the dreadfort men had served roose bolton their whole life, and they knew him better than she did. if i tell him i am arya stark and command him to stand aside... no, she dare not. he was a northman, but not a winterfell man. he belonged to roose bolton. when she reached him she pushed back her cloak so he would see the flayed man on her breast. lord bolton sent me. at this hour? why for? she could see the gleam of steel under the fur, and she did not know if she was strong enough to drive the point of the dagger through chainmail. his throat, it must be his throat, but he's too tall, i'll never reach it. for a moment she did not know what to say. for a moment she was a little girl again, and scared, and the rain on her face felt like tears. he told me to give all his guards a silver piece, for their good service. the words seemed to come out of nowhere. silver, you say? he did not believe her, but he wanted to; silver was silver, after all. give it over, then. her fingers dug down beneath her tunic and came out clutching the coin jaqen had given her. in the dark the iron could pass for tarnished silver. she held it out... and let it slip through her fingers. cursing her softly, the man went to a knee to grope for the coin in the dirt and there was his neck right in front of her. arya slid her dagger out and drew it across his throat, as smooth as summer silk. his blood covered her hands in a hot gush and he tried to shout but there was blood in his mouth as well. valar morghulis, she whispered as he died. when he stopped moving, she picked up the coin. outside the walls of harrenhal, a wolf howled long and loud. she lifted the bar, set it aside, and pulled open the heavy oak door. by the time hot pie and gendry came up with the horses, the rain was falling hard. you killed him! hot pie gasped. what did you think i would do? her fingers were sticky with blood, and the smell was making her mare skittish. it's no matter, she thought, swinging up into the saddle. the rain will wash them clean again. 