bran preferred the hard stone of the window seat to the comforts of his featherbed and blankets. abed, the walls pressed close and the ceiling hung heavy above him; abed, the room was his cell, and winterfell his prison. yet outside his window, the wide world still called. he could not walk, nor climb nor hunt nor fight with a wooden sword as once he had, but he could still look. he liked to watch the windows begin to glow all over winterfell as candles and hearth fires were lit behind the diamond-shaped panes of tower and hall, and he loved to listen to the direwolves sing to the stars. of late, he often dreamed of wolves. they are talking to me, brother to brother, he told himself when the direwolves howled. he could almost understand them... not quite, not truly, but almost... as if they were singing in a language he had once known and somehow forgotten. the walders might be scared of them, but the starks had wolf blood. old nan told him so. though it is stronger in some than in others, she warned. summer's howls were long and sad, full of grief and longing. shaggydog's were more savage. their voices echoed through the yards and halls until the castle rang and it seemed as though some great pack of direwolves haunted winterfell, instead of only two... two where there had once been six. do they miss their brothers and sisters too? bran wondered. are they calling to grey wind and ghost, to nymeria and lady's shade? do they want them to come home and be a pack together? who can know the mind of a wolf? ser rodrik cassel said when bran asked him why they howled. bran's lady mother had named him castellan of winterfell in her absence, and his duties left him little time for idle questions. it's freedom they're calling for, declared farlen, who was kennelmaster and had no more love for the direwolves than his hounds did. they don't like being walled up, and who's to blame them? wild things belong in the wild, not in a castle. they want to hunt, agreed gage the cook as he tossed cubes of suet in a great kettle of stew. a wolf smells better'n any man. like as not, they've caught the scent o' prey. maester luwin did not think so. wolves often howl at the moon. these are howling at the comet. see how bright it is, bran? perchance they think it is the moon. when bran repeated that to osha, she laughed aloud. your wolves have more wit than your maester, the wildling woman said. they know truths the grey man has forgotten. the way she said it made him shiver, and when he asked what the comet meant, she answered, blood and fire, boy, and nothing sweet. bran asked septon chayle about the comet while they were sorting through some scrolls snatched from the library fire. it is the sword that slays the season, he replied, and soon after the white raven came from oldtown bringing word of autumn, so doubtless he was right. though old nan did not think so, and she'd lived longer than any of them. dragons, she said, lifting her head and sniffing. she was near blind and could not see the comet, yet she claimed she could smell it. it be dragons, boy, she insisted. bran got no princes from nan, no more than he ever had. hodor said only, hodor. that was all he ever said. and still the direwolves howled. the guards on the walls muttered curses, hounds in the kennels barked furiously, horses kicked at their stalls, the walders shivered by their fire, and even maester luwin complained of sleepless nights. only bran did not mind. ser rodrik had confined the wolves to the godswood after shaggydog bit little walder, but the stones of winterfell played queer tricks with sound, and sometimes it sounded as if they were in the yard right below bran's window. other times he would have sworn they were up on the curtain walls, loping round like sentries. he wished that he could see them. he could see the comet hanging above the guards hall and the bell tower, and farther back the first keep, squat and round, its gargoyles black shapes against the bruised purple dusk. once bran had known every stone of those buildings, inside and out; he had climbed them all, scampering up walls as easily as other boys ran down stairs. their rooftops had been his secret places, and the crows atop the broken tower his special friends. and then he had fallen. bran did not remember falling, yet they said he had, so he supposed it must be true. he had almost died. when he saw the weatherworn gargoyles atop the first keep where it had happened, he got a queer tight feeling in his belly. and now he could not climb, nor walk nor run nor swordfight, and the dreams he'd dreamed of knighthood had soured in his head. summer had howled the day bran had fallen, and for long after as he lay broken in his bed; robb had told him so before he went away to war. summer had mourned for him, and shaggydog and grey wind had joined in his grief. and the night the bloody raven had brought word of their father's death, the wolves had known that too. bran had been in the maester's turret with rickon talking of the children of the forest when summer and shaggydog had drowned out luwin with their howls. who are they mourning now? had some enemy slain the king in the north, who used to be his brother robb? had his bastard brother jon snow fallen from the wall? had his mother died, or one of his sisters? or was this something else, as maester and septon and old nan seemed to think? if i were truly a direwolf, i would understand the song, he thought wistfully. in his wolf dreams, he could race up the sides of mountains, jagged icy mountains taller than any tower, and stand at the summit beneath the full moon with all the world below him, the way it used to be. oooo, bran cried tentatively. he cupped his hands around his mouth and lifted his head to the comet. ooooooooooooooooooo, ahooooooooooooooo, he howled, it sounded stupid, high and hollow and quavering, a little boy's howl, not a wolfs. yet summer gave answer, his deep voice drowning out bran's thin one, and shaggydog made it a chorus. bran haroooed again. they howled together, last of their pack. the noise brought a guard to his door, hayhead with the wen on his nose. he peered in, saw bran howling out the window, and said, what's this, my prince? it made bran feel queer when they called him prince, though he was robb's heir, and robb was king in the north now. he turned his head to howl at the guard. oooooooo. oo-oo- oooooooooooo.  hayhead screwed up his face. now you stop that there. ooo-ooo-oooooo. ooo-ooo-ooooooooooooooooo.  the guardsman retreated. when he came back, maester luwin was with him, all in grey, his chain tight about his neck. bran, those beasts make sufficient noise without your help. he crossed the room and put his hand on the boy's brow. the hour grows late, you ought to be fast asleep. i'm talking to the wolves. bran brushed the hand away. shall i have hayhead carry you to your bed? i can get to bed myself. mikken had hammered a row of iron bars into the wall, so bran could pull himself about the room with his arms. it was slow and hard and it made his shoulders ache, but he hated being carried. anyway, i don't have to sleep if i don't want to. all men must sleep, bran. even princes. when i sleep i turn into a wolf. bran turned his face away and looked back out into the night. do wolves dream? all creatures dream, i think, yet not as men do. do dead men dream? bran asked, thinking of his father. in the dark crypts below winterfell, a stonemason was chiseling out his father's likeness in granite. some say yes, some no, the maester answered. the dead themselves are silent on the matter. do trees dream? trees? no... they do, bran said with sudden certainty. they dream tree dreams. i dream of a tree sometimes. a weirwood, like the one in the godswood. it calls to me. the wolf dreams are better. i smell things, and sometimes i can taste the blood. maester luwin tugged at his chain where it chafed his neck. if you would only spend more time with the other children- i hate the other children, bran said, meaning the walders. i commanded you to send them away. luwin grew stern. the freys are your lady mother's wards, sent here to be fostered at her express command. it is not for you to expel them, nor is it kind. if we turned them out, where would they go? home. it's their fault you won't let me have summer. the frey boy did not ask to be attacked, the maester said, no more than i did. that was shaggydog. rickon's big black wolf was so wild he even frightened bran at times. summer never bit anyone. summer ripped out a man's throat in this very chamber, or have you forgotten? the truth is, those sweet pups you and your brothers found in the snow have grown into dangerous beasts. the frey boys are wise to be wary of them. we should put the walders in the godswood. they could play lord of the crossing all they want, and summer could sleep with me again. if i'm the prince, why won't you heed me? i wanted to ride dancer, but alebelly wouldn't let me past the gate. and rightly so. the wolfswood is full of danger; your last ride should have taught you that. would you want some outlaw to take you captive and sell you to the lannisters? summer would save me, bran insisted stubbornly. princes should be allowed to sail the sea and hunt boar in the wolfswood and joust with lances. bran, child, why do you torment yourself so? one day you may do some of these things, but now you are only a boy of eight. i'd sooner be a wolf. then i could live in the wood and sleep when i wanted, and i could find arya and sansa. i'd smell where they were and go save them, and when robb went to battle i'd fight beside him like grey wind. i'd tear out the kingslayer's throat with my teeth, rip, and then the war would be over and everyone would come back to winterfell. if i was a wolf... he howled. ooo-ooo-oooooooooooo. luwin raised his voice. a true prince would welcome- aahooooooo, bran howled, louder. aahooooooo the maester surrendered. as you will, child. with a look that was part grief and part disgust, he left the bedchamber. howling lost its savor once bran was alone. after a time he quieted. i did welcome them, he told himself, resentful. i was the lord in winterfell, a true lord, he can't say i wasn't. when the walders had arrived from the twins, it had been rickon who wanted them gone. a baby of four, he had screamed that he wanted mother and father and robb, not these strangers. it had been up to bran to soothe him and bid the freys welcome. he had offered them meat and mead and a seat by the fire, and even maester luwin had said afterward that he'd done well. only that was before the game. the game was played with a log, a staff, a body of water, and a great deal of shouting. the water was the most important, walder and walder assured bran. you could use a plank or even a series of stones, and a branch could be your staff. you didn't have to shout. but without water, there was no game. as maester luwin and ser rodrik were not about to let the children go wandering off into the wolfswood in search of a stream, they made do with one of the murky pools in the godswood. walder and walder had never seen hot water bubbling from the ground before, but they both allowed how it would make the game even better. both of them were called walder frey. big walder said there were bunches of walders at the twins, all named after the boys' grandfather, lord walder frey. we have our own names at winterfell, rickon told them haughtily when he heard that. the way their game was played, you laid the log across the water, and one player stood in the middle with the stick. he was the lord of the crossing, and when one of the other players came up, he had to say, i am the lord of the crossing, who goes there? and the other player had to make up a speech about who they were and why they should be allowed to cross. the lord could make them swear oaths and answer questions. they didn't have to tell the truth, but the oaths were binding unless they said maybaps, so the trick was to say mayhaps so the lord of the crossing didn't notice. then you could try and knock the lord into the water and you got to be lord of the crossing, but only if you'd said mayhaps. otherwise you were out of the game. the lord got to knock anyone in the water anytime he pleased, and he was the only one who got to use a stick. in practice, the game seemed to come down to mostly shoving, hitting, and falling into the water, along with a lot of loud arguments about whether or not someone had said mayhaps. little walder was lord of the crossing more often than not. he was little walder even though he was tall and stout, with a red face and a big round belly. big walder was sharp-faced and skinny and half a foot shorter. he's fifty-two days older than me, little walder explained, so he was bigger at first, but i grew faster. we're cousins, not brothers, added big walder, the little one. i'm walder son of jammos. my father was lord walder's son by his fourth wife. he's walder son of merrett. his grandmother was lord walder's third wife, the crakehall. he's ahead of me in the line of succession even though i'm older. only by fifty-two days, little walder objected. and neither of us will ever hold the twins, stupid. i will, big walder declared. we're not the only walders either. ser stevron has a grandson, black walder, he's fourth in line of succession, and there's red walder, ser emmon's son, and bastard walder, who isn't in the line at all. he's called walder rivers not walder frey. plus there's girls named walda. and tyr. you always forget tyr. he's waltyr, not walder, big walder said airily. and he's after us, so he doesn't matter. anyhow, i never liked him. ser rodrik decreed that they would share jon snow's old bedchamber, since jon was in the night's watch and never coming back. bran hated that; it made him feel as if the freys were trying to steal jon's place. he had watched wistfully while the walders contested with turnip the cook's boy and joseth's girls bandy and shyra. the walders had decreed that bran should be the judge and decide whether or not people had said maybaps, but as soon as they started playing they forgot all about him. the shouts and splashes soon drew others: palla the kennel girl, cayn's boy calon, tomtoo whose father fat tom had died with bran's father at king's landing. before very long, every one of them was soaked and muddy. palla was brown from head to heel, with moss in her hair, breathless from laughter. bran had not heard so much laughing since the night the bloody raven came. if i had my legs, i'd knock all of them into the water, he thought bitterly. no one would ever be lord of the crossing but me. finally rickon came running into the godswood, shaggydog at his heels. he watched turnip and little walder struggle for the stick until turnip lost his footing and went in with a huge splash, arms waving. rickon yelled, me! me now! i want to play! little walder beckoned him on, and shaggydog started to follow. no, shaggy, his brother commanded. wolves can't play. you stay with bran. and he did... ...until little walder had smacked rickon with the stick, square across his belly. before bran could blink, the black wolf was flying over the plank, there was blood in the water, the walders were shrieking red murder, rickon sat in the mud laughing, and hodor came lumbering in shouting hodor! hodor! hodor! after that, oddly, rickon decided he liked the walders. they never played lord of the crossing again, but they played other games-monsters and maidens, rats and cats, come-into-my-castle, all sorts of things. with rickon by their side, the walders plundered the kitchens for pies and honeycombs, raced round the walls, tossed bones to the pups in the kennels, and trained with wooden swords under ser rodrik's sharp eye. rickon even showed them the deep vaults under the earth where the stonemason was carving father's tomb. you had no right! bran screamed at his brother when he heard. that was our place, a stark place! but rickon never cared. the door to his bedchamber opened. maester luwin was carrying a green jar, and this time osha and hayhead came with him. i've made you a sleeping draught, bran. osha scooped him up in her bony arms. she was very tall for a woman, and wiry strong. she bore him effortlessly to his bed. this will give you dreamless sleep, maester luwin said as he pulled the stopper from the jar. sweet, dreamless sleep. it will? bran said, wanting to believe. yes. drink. bran drank. the potion was thick and chalky, but there was honey in it so it went down easy. come the morn, you'll feel better. luwin gave bran a smile and a pat as he took his leave. osha lingered behind. is it the wolf dreams again? bran nodded. you should not fight so hard, boy. i see you talking to the heart tree. might be the gods are trying to talk back. the gods? he murmured, drowsy already. osha's face grew blurry and grey. sweet, dreamless sleep, bran thought. yet when the darkness closed over him, he found himself in the godswood, moving silently beneath green-grey sentinels and gnarled oaks as old as time. i am walking, he thought, exulting. part of him knew that it was only a dream, but even the dream of walking was better than the truth of his bedchamber, walls and ceiling and door. it was dark amongst the trees, but the comet lit his way, and his feet were sure. he was moving on four good legs, strong and swift, and he could feel the ground underfoot, the soft crackling of fallen leaves, thick roots and hard stones, the deep layers of humus. it was a good feeling. the smells filled his head, alive and intoxicating; the green muddy stink of the hot pools, the perfume of rich rotting earth beneath his paws, the squirrels in the oaks. the scent of squirrel made him remember the taste of hot blood and the way the bones would crack between his teeth. slaver filled his mouth. he had eaten no more than half a day past, but there was no joy in dead meat, even deer. he could hear the squirrels chittering and rustling above him, safe among their leaves, but they knew better than to come down to where his brother and he were prowling. he could smell his brother too, a familiar scent, strong and earthy, his scent as black as his coat. his brother was loping around the walls, full of fury. round and round he went, night after day after night, tireless, searching... for prey, for a way out, for his mother, his littermates, his pack... searching, searching, and never finding. behind the trees the walls rose, piles of dead man-rock that loomed all about this speck of living wood. speckled grey they rose, and moss-spotted, yet thick and strong and higher than any wolf could hope to leap. cold iron and splintery wood closed off the only holes through the piled stones that hemmed them in. his brother would stop at every hole and bare his fangs in rage, but the ways stayed closed. he had done the same the first night, and learned that it was no good. snarls would open no paths here. circling the walls would not push them back. lifting a leg and marking the trees would keep no men away. the world had tightened around them, but beyond the walled wood still stood the great grey caves of man-rock. winterfell, he remembered, the sound coming to him suddenly. beyond its sky-tall man-cliffs the true world was calling, and he knew he must answer or die. long before the first pale fingers of light pried apart bran's shutters, his eyes were open. there were guests in winterfell, visitors come for the harvest feast. this morning they would be tilting at quintains in the yard. once that prospect would have filled him with excitement, but that was before. not now. the walders would break lances with the squires of lord manderly's escort, but bran would have no part of it. he must play the prince in his father's solar. listen, and it may be that you will learn something of what lordship is all about, maester luwin had said. bran had never asked to be a prince. it was knighthood he had always dreamed of; bright armor and streaming banners, lance and sword, a warhorse between his legs. why must he waste his days listening to old men speak of things he only half understood? because you're broken, a voice inside reminded him. a lord on his cushioned chair might be crippled-the walders said their grandfather was so feeble he had to be carried everywhere in a litter-but not a knight on his destrier. besides, it was his duty. you are your brother's heir and the stark in winterfell, ser rodrik said, reminding him of how robb used to sit with their lord father when his bannermen came to see him. lord wyman manderly had arrived from white harbor two days past, traveling by barge and litter, as he was too fat to sit a horse. with him had come a long tail of retainers: knights, squires, lesser lords and ladies, heralds, musicians, even a juggler, all aglitter with banners and surcoats in what seemed half a hundred colors. bran had welcomed them to winterfell from his father's high stone seat with the direwolves carved into the arms, and afterward ser rodrik had said he'd done well. if that had been the end of it, he would not have minded. but it was only the beginning. the feast makes a pleasant pretext, ser rodrik explained, but a man does not cross a hundred leagues for a sliver of duck and a sip of wine. only those who have matters of import to set before us are like to make the journey. bran gazed up at the rough stone ceiling above his head. robb would tell him not to play the boy, he knew. he could almost hear him, and their lord father as well. winter is coming, and you are almost a man grown, bran. you have a duty. when hodor came bustling in, smiling and humming tunelessly, he found the boy resigned to his fate. together they got him washed and brushed. the white wool doublet today, bran commanded. and the silver brooch. ser rodrik will want me to look lordly. as much as he could, bran preferred to dress himself, but there were some tasks-pulling on breeches, lacing his boots-that vexed him. they went quicker with hodor's help. once he had been taught to do something, he did it deftly. his hands were always gentle, though his strength was astonishing. you could have been a knight too, i bet, bran told him. if the gods hadn't taken your wits, you would have been a great knight. hodor? hodor blinked at him with guileless brown eyes, eyes innocent of understanding. yes, said bran. hodor. he pointed on the wall beside the door hung a basket, stoutly made of wicker and leather, with holes cut for bran's legs. hodor slid his arms through the straps and cinched the wide belt tight around his chest, then knelt beside the bed. bran used the bars sunk into the wall to support himself as he swung the dead weight of his legs into the basket and through the holes. hodor, hodor said again, rising. the stableboy stood near seven feet tall all by himself; on his back bran's head almost brushed the ceiling. he ducked low as they passed through the door. one time hodor smelled bread baking and ran to the kitchens, and bran got such a crack that maester luwin had to sew up his scalp. mikken had given him a rusty old visorless helm from the armory, but bran seldom troubled to wear it. the walders laughed whenever they saw it on his head. he rested his hands on hodor's shoulders as they descended the winding stair. outside, the sounds of sword and shield and horse already rang through the yard. it made a sweet music. i'll just have a look, bran thought, a quick look, that's all. the white harbor lordlings would emerge later in the morning, with their knights and men-at- arms. until then, the yard belonged to their squires, who ranged in age from ten to forty. bran wished he were one of them so badly that his stomach hurt with the wanting. two quintains had been erected in the courtyard, each a stout post supporting a spinning crossbeam with a shield at one end and a padded butt at the other. the shields had been painted red-and-gold, though the lannister lions were lumpy and misshapen, and already well scarred by the first boys to take a tilt at them. the sight of bran in his basket drew stares from those who had not seen it before, but he had learned to ignore stares. at least he had a good view; on hodor's back, he towered over everyone. the walders were mounting up, he saw. they'd brought fine armor up from the twins, shining silver plate with enameled blue chasings. big walder's crest was shaped like a castle, while little walder favored streamers of blue and grey silk. their shields and surcoats also set them apart from each other. little walder quartered the twin towers of frey with the brindled boar of his grandmother's house and the plowman of his mother's: crakehall and darry, respectively. big walder's quarterings were the tree-and-ravens of house blackwood and the twining snakes of the paeges. they must be hungry for honor, bran thought as he watched them take up their lances. a stark needs only the direwolf their dappled grey coursers were swift, strong, and beautifully trained. side by side they charged the quintains. both hit the shields cleanly and were well past before the padded butts came spinning around. little walder struck the harder blow, but bran thought big walder sat his horse better. he would have given both his useless legs for the chance to ride against either. little walder cast his splintered lance aside, spied bran, and reined up. now there's an ugly horse, he said of hodor. hodor's no horse, bran said. hodor, said hodor. big walder trotted up to join his cousin. well, he's not as smart as a horse, that's for certain. a few of the white harbor lads poked each other and laughed. hodor. beaming genially, hodor looked from one frey to the other, oblivious to their taunting. hodor hodor? little walder's mount whickered. see, they're talking to each other. maybe hodor means'i love you' in horse. you shut up, frey. bran could feel his color rising. little walder spurred his horse closer, giving hodor a bump that pushed him backward. what will you do if i don't? he'll set his wolf on you, cousin, warned big walder. let him. i always wanted a wolfskin cloak. summer would tear your fat head off, bran said. little walder banged a mailed fist against his breastplate. does your wolf have steel teeth, to bite through plate and mail? enough! maester luwin's voice cracked through the clangor of the yard as loud as a thunderclap. how much he had overheard, bran could not say... but it was enough to anger him, clearly. these threats are unseemly, and i'll hear no more of them. is this how you behave at the twins, walder frey? if i want to. atop his courser, little walder gave luwin a sullen glare, as if to say, you are only a maester, who are you to reproach a frey of the crossing? well, it is not how lady stark's wards ought behave at winterfell. what's at the root of this? the maester looked at each boy in turn. one of you will tell me, i swear, or- we were having a jape with hodor, confessed big walder. i am sorry if we offended prince bran. we only meant to be amusing. he at least had the grace to look abashed. little walder only looked peevish. and me, he said. i was only being amusing too. the bald spot atop the maester's head had turned red, bran could see; if anything, luwin was more angry than before. a good lord comforts and protects the weak and helpless, he told the freys. i will not have you making hodor the butt of cruel jests, do you hear me? he's a goodhearted lad, dutiful and obedient, which is more than i can say for either of you. the maester wagged a finger at little walder. and you will stay out of the godswood and away from those wolves, or answer for it. sleeves flapping, he turned on his heels, stalked off a few paces, and glanced back. bran. come. lord wyman awaits. hodor, go with the maester, bran commanded. hodor, said hodor. his long strides caught up with the maester's furiously pumping legs on the steps of the great keep. maester luwin held the door open, and bran hugged hodor's neck and ducked as they went through. the walders- he began. i'll hear no more of that, it's done. maester luwin looked worn-out and frayed. you were right to defend hodor, but you should never have been there. ser rodrik and lord wyman have broken their fast already while they waited for you. must i come myself to fetch you, as if you were a little child? no, bran said, ashamed. i'm sorry. i only wanted i know what you wanted, maester luwin said, more gently. would that it could be, bran. do you have any questions before we begin this audience?  will we talk of the war? you will talk of naught. the sharpness was back in luwin's voice. you are still a child of eight almost nine! eight, the maester repeated firmly. speak nothing but courtesies unless ser rodrik or lord wyman puts you a question. bran nodded. i'll remember. i will say nothing to ser rodrik of what passed between you and the frey boys. thank you. they put bran in his father's oak chair with the grey velvet cushions, behind a long plank-and- trestle table. ser rodrik sat on his right hand and maester luwin to his left, armed with quills and inkpots and a sheaf of blank parchment to write down all that transpired. bran ran a hand across the rough wood of the table and begged lord wyman' s pardons for being late. why, no prince is ever late, the lord of white harbor responded amiably. those who arrive before him have come early, that's all. wyman manderly had a great booming laugh, it was small wonder he could not sit a saddle; he looked as if he outweighed most horses. as windy as he was vast, he began by asking winterfell to confirm the new customs officers he had appointed for white harbor. the old ones had been holding back silver for king's landing rather than paying it over to the new king in the north. king robb needs his own coinage as well, he declared, and white harbor is the very place to mint it. he offered to take charge of the matter, as it please the king, and went from that to speak of how he had strengthened the port's defenses, detailing the cost of every improvement. in addition to a mint, lord manderly also proposed to build robb a warfleet. we have had no strength at sea for hundreds of years, since brandon the burner put the torch to his father's ships. grant me the gold and within the year i will float you sufficient galleys to take dragonstone and king's landing both. bran's interest pricked up at talk of warships. no one asked him, but he thought lord wyman's notion a splendid one. in his mind's eye he could see them already. he wondered if a cripple had ever commanded a warship. but ser rodrik promised only to send the proposal on to robb for his consideration, while maester luwin scratched at the parchment. midday came and went. maester luwin sent poxy tym down to the kitchens, and they dined in the solar on cheese, capons, and brown oatbread. while tearing apart a bird with fat fingers, lord wyman made polite inquiry after lady hornwood, who was a cousin of his. she was born a manderly, you know. perhaps, when her grief has run its course, she would like to be a manderly again, eh? he took a bite from a wing, and smiled broadly. as it happens, i am a widower these past eight years. past time i took another wife, don't you agree, my lords? a man does get lonely. tossing the bones aside, he reached for a leg. or if the lady fancies a younger lad, well, my son wendel is unwed as well. he is off south guarding lady catelyn, but no doubt he will wish to take a bride on his return. a valiant boy, and jolly, just the man to teach her to laugh again, eh? he wiped a bit of grease off his chin with the sleeve of his tunic. bran could hear the distant clash of arms through the windows. he cared nothing about marriages. i wish i was down in the yard. his lordship waited until the table had been cleared before he raised the matter of a letter he had received from lord tywin lannister, who held his elder son, ser wylis, taken captive on the green fork. he offers him back to me without ransom, provided i withdraw my levies from his grace and vow to fight no more. you will refuse him, of course, said ser rodrik. have no fear on that count, the lord assured them. king robb has no more loyal servant than wyman manderly. i would be loath to see my son languish at harrenhal any longer than he must, however. that is an ill place. cursed, they say. not that i am the sort to swallow such tales, but still, there it is. look at what's befallen this janos slynt. raised up to lord of harrenhal by the queen, and cast down by her brother. shipped off to the wall, they say. i pray some equitable exchange of captives can be arranged before too very long. i know wylis would not want to sit out the rest of the war. gallant, that son of mine, and fierce as a mastiff. bran's shoulders were stiff from sitting in the same chair by the time the audience drew to a close. and that night, as he sat to supper, a horn sounded to herald the arrival of another guest. lady donella hornwood brought no tail of knights and retainers; only herself, and six tired menat-arms with a moosehead badge on their dusty orange livery. we are very sorry for all you have suffered, my lady, bran said when she came before him to speak her words of greetings. lord hornwood had been killed in the battle on the green fork, their only son cut down in the whispering wood. winterfell will remember. that is good to know. she was a pale husk of a woman, every line of her face etched with grief. i am very weary, my lord. if i might have leave to rest, i should be thankful. to be sure, ser rodrik said. there is time enough for talk on the morrow. when the morrow came, most of the morning was given over to talk of grains and greens and salting meat. once the maesters in their citadel had proclaimed the first of autumn, wise men put away a portion of each harvest... though how large a portion was a matter that seemed to require much talk. lady hornwood was storing a fifth of her harvest. at maester luwin's suggestion, she vowed to increase that to a quarter. bolton's bastard is massing men at the dreadfort, she warned them. i hope he means to take them south to join his father at the twins, but when i sent to ask his intent, he told me that no bolton would be questioned by a woman. as if he were trueborn and had a right to that name. lord bolton has never acknowledged the boy, so far as i know, ser rodrik said. i confess, i do not know him. few do, she replied. he lived with his mother until two years past, when young domeric died and left bolton without an heir. that was when he brought his bastard to the dreadfort. the boy is a sly creature by all accounts, and he has a servant who is almost as cruel as he is. reek, they call the man. it's said he never bathes. they hunt together, the bastard and this reek, and not for deer. i've heard tales, things i can scarce believe, even of a bolton. and now that my lord husband and my sweet son have gone to the gods, the bastard looks at my lands hungrily. bran wanted to give the lady a hundred men to defend her rights, but ser rodrik only said, he may look, but should he do more i promise you there will be dire retribution. you will be safe enough, my lady... though perhaps in time, when your grief is passed, you may find it prudent to wed again. i am past my childbearing years, what beauty i had long fled, she replied with a tired half smile, yet men come sniffing after me as they never did when i was a maid. you do not look favorably on these suitors? asked luwin. i shall wed again if his grace commands it, lady hornwood replied, but mors crowfood is a drunken brute, and older than my father. as for my noble cousin of manderly, my lord's bed is not large enough to hold one of his majesty, and i am surely too small and frail to lie beneath him. bran knew that men slept on top of women when they shared a bed. sleeping under lord manderly would be like sleeping under a fallen horse, he imagined. ser rodrik gave the widow a sympathetic nod. you will have other suitors, my lady. we shall try and find you a prospect more to your taste. perhaps you need not look very far, ser. after she had taken her leave, maester luwin smiled. ser rodrik, i do believe my lady fancies you. ser rodrik cleared his throat and looked uncomfortable. she was very sad, said bran. ser rodrik nodded. sad and gentle, and not at all uncomely for a woman of her years, for all her modesty. yet a danger to the peace of your brother's realm nonetheless. her? bran said, astonished. maester luwin answered. with no direct heir, there are sure to be many claimants contending for the hornwood lands. the tallharts, flints, and karstarks all have ties to house hornwood through the female line, and the glovers are fostering lord harys's bastard at deepwood motte. the dreadfort has no claim that i know, but the lands adjoin, and roose bolton is not one to overlook such a chance. ser rodrik tugged at his whiskers. in such cases, her liege lord must find her a suitable match. why can't you marry her? bran asked. you said she was comely, and beth would have a mother. the old knight put a hand on bran's arm. a kindly thought, my prince, but i am only a knight, and besides too old. i might hold her lands for a few years, but as soon as i died lady hornwood would find herself back in the same mire, and beth's prospects might be perilous as well. then let lord hornwood's bastard be the heir, bran said, thinking of his half brother jon. ser rodrik said, that would please the glovers, and perhaps lord hornwood's shade as well, but i do not think lady hornwood would love us. the boy is not of her blood. still, said maester luwin, it must be considered. lady donella is past her fertile years, as she said herself, if not the bastard, who? may i be excused? bran could hear the squires at their swordplay in the yard below, the ring of steel on steel. as you will, my prince, said ser rodrik. you did well. bran flushed with pleasure. being a lord was not so tedious as he had feared, and since lady hornwood had been so much briefer than lord manderly, he even had a few hours of daylight left to visit with summer. he liked to spend time with his wolf every day, when ser rodrik and the maester allowed it. no sooner had hodor entered the godswood than summer emerged from under an oak, almost as if he had known they were coming. bran glimpsed a lean black shape watching from the undergrowth as well. shaggy, he called. here, shaggydog. to me. but rickon's wolf vanished as swiftly as he'd appeared. hodor knew bran's favorite place, so he took him to the edge of the pool beneath the great spread of the heart tree, where lord eddard used to kneel to pray. ripples were running across the surface of the water when they arrived, making the reflection of the weirwood shimmer and dance. there was no wind, though. for an instant bran was baffled. and then osha exploded up out of the pool with a great splash, so sudden that even summer leapt back, snarling. hodor jumped away, wailing hodor, hodor in dismay until bran patted his shoulder to soothe his fears. how can you swim in there? he asked osha. isn't it cold? as a babe i suckled on icicles, boy. i like the cold. osha swam to the rocks and rose dripping. she was naked, her skin bumpy with gooseprickles. summer crept close and sniffed at her. i wanted to touch the bottom. i never knew there was a bottom. might be there isn't. she grinned. what are you staring at, boy? never seen a woman before? i have so. bran had bathed with his sisters hundreds of times and he'd seen serving women in the hot pools too. osha looked different, though, hard and sharp instead of soft and curvy. her legs were all sinew, her breasts flat as two empty purses. you've got a lot of scars. every one hard earned. she picked up her brown shift, shook some leaves off of it, and pulled it down over her head. fighting giants? osha claimed there were still giants beyond the wall. one day maybe i'll even see one... fighting men. she belted herself with a length of rope. black crows, oft as not. killed me one too, she said, shaking out her hair. it had grown since she'd come to winterfell, well down past her ears. she looked softer than the woman who had once tried to rob and kill him in the wolfswood. heard some yattering in the kitchen today about you and them freys. who? what did they say? she gave him a sour grin. that it's a fool boy who mocks a giant, and a mad world when a cripple has to defend him. hodor never knew they were mocking him, bran said. anyhow he never fights. he remembered once when he was little, going to the market square with his mother and septa mordane. they brought hodor to carry for them, but he had wandered away, and when they found him some boys had him backed into an alley, poking him with sticks. hodor! he kept shouting, cringing and covering himself, but he had never raised a hand against his tormentors. septon chayle says he has a gentle spirit. aye, she said, and hands strong enough to twist a man's head off his shoulders, if he takes a mind to. all the same, he better watch his back around that walder. him and you both. the big one they call little, it comes to me he's well named. big outside, little inside, and mean down to the bones. he'd never dare hurt me. he's scared of summer, no matter what he says. then might be he's not so stupid as he seems. osha was always wary around the direwolves. the day she was taken, summer and grey wind between them had torn three wildlings to bloody pieces. or might be he is. and that tastes of trouble too. she tied up her hair. you have more of them wolf dreams? no. he did not like to talk about the dreams. a prince should lie better than that. osha laughed. well, your dreams are your business. mine's in the kitchens, and i'd best be getting back before gage starts to shouting and waving that big wooden spoon of his. by your leave, my prince. she should never have talked about the wolf dreams, bran thought as hodor carried him up the steps to his bedchamber. he fought against sleep as long as he could, but in the end it took him as it always did. on this night he dreamed of the weirwood. it was looking at him with its deep red eyes, calling to him with its twisted wooden mouth, and from its pale branches the three-eyed crow came flapping, pecking at his face and crying his name in a voice as sharp as swords. the blast of horns woke him. bran pushed himself onto his side, grateful for the reprieve. he heard horses and boisterous shouting. more guests have come, and half-drunk by the noise of them. grasping his bars he pulled himself from the bed and over to the window seat. on their banner was a giant in shattered chains that told him that these were umber men, down from the northlands beyond the last river. the next day two of them came together to audience; the greatjon's uncles, blustery men in the winter of their days with beards as white as the bearskin cloaks they wore. a crow had once taken mors for dead and pecked out his eye, so he wore a chunk of dragonglass in its stead. as old nan told the tale, he'd grabbed the crow in his fist and bitten its head off, so they named him crowfood. she would never tell bran why his gaunt brother hother was called whoresbane. no sooner had they been seated than mors asked for leave to wed lady hornwood. the greatjon's the young wolfs strong right hand, all know that to be true. who better to protect the widow's lands than an umber, and what umber better than me? lady done 11a is still grieving, maester luwin said. i have a cure for grief under my furs. mors laughed. ser rodrik thanked him courteously and promised to bring the matter before the lady and the king. hother wanted ships. there's wildlings stealing down from the north, more than i've ever seen before. they cross the bay of seals in little boats and wash up on our shores. the crows in eastwatch are too few to stop them, and they go to ground quick as weasels. it's longships we need, aye, and strong men to sail them. the greatjon took too many. half our harvest is gone to seed for want of arms to swing the scythes. ser rodrik pulled at his whiskers. you have forests of tall pine and old oak. lord manderly has shipwrights and sailors in plenty. together you ought to be able to float enough longships to guard both your coasts. manderly? mors umber snorted. that great waddling sack of suet? his own people mock him as lord lamprey, i've heard. the man can scarce walk. if you stuck a sword in his belly, ten thousand eels would wriggle out. he is fat, ser rodrik admitted, but he is not stupid. you will work with him, or the king will know the reason why. and to bran's astonishment, the truculent umbers agreed to do as he commanded, though not without grumbling. while they were sitting at audience, the glover men arrived from deepwood motte, and a large party of tallharts from torrhen's square. galbart and robett glover had left deepwood in the hands of robett's wife, but it was their steward who came to winterfell. my lady begs that you excuse her absence. her babes are still too young for such a journey, and she was loath to leave them. bran soon realized that it was the steward, not lady glover, who truly ruled at deepwood motte. the man allowed that he was at present setting aside only a tenth of his harvest. a hedge wizard had told him there would be a bountiful spirit summer before the cold set in, he claimed. maester luwin had a number of choice things to say about hedge wizards. ser rodrik commanded the man to set aside a fifth, and questioned the steward closely about lord hornwood's bastard, the boy larence snow, in the north, all highborn bastards took the surname snow this lad was near twelve, and the steward praised his wits and courage. your notion about the bastard may have merit, bran, maester luwin said after. one day you will be a good lord for winterfell, i think.,, no i won't. bran knew he would never be a lord, no more than he could be a knight. robb's to marry some frey girl, you told me so yourself, and the walders say the same. he'll have sons, and they'll be the lords of winterfell after him, not me. it may be so, bran, ser rodrik said, but i was wed three times and my wives gave me daughters. now only beth remains to me. my brother martyn fathered four strong sons, yet only jory lived to be a man. when he was slain, martyn's line died with him. when we speak of the morrow nothing is ever certain. leobald tallhart had his turn the following day. he spoke of weather portents and the slack wits of smallfolk, and told how his nephew itched for battle. benfred has raised his own company of lances. boys, none older than nineteen years, but every one thinks he's another young wolf. when i told them they were only young rabbits, they laughed at me. now they call themselves the wild hares and gallop about the country with rabbitskins tied to the ends of their lances, singing songs of chivalry. bran thought that sounded grand. he remembered benfred tallhart, a big bluff loud boy who had often visited winterfell with his father, ser helman, and had been friendly with robb and with theon greyjoy. but ser rodrik was clearly displeased by what he heard. if the king were in need of more men, he would send for them, he said. instruct your nephew that he is to remain at torrhen's square, as his lord father commanded. i will, ser, said leobald, and only then raised the matter of lady hornwood. poor thing, with no husband to defend her lands nor son to inherit. his own lady wife was a hornwood, sister to the late lord halys, doubtless they recalled. an empty hall is a sad one. i had a thought to send my younger son to lady donella to foster as her own. beren is near ten, a likely lad, and her own nephew. he would cheer her, i am certain, and perhaps he would even take the name hornwood if he were named heir? suggested maester luwin. ... so the house might continue, finished leobald. bran knew what to say. thank you for the notion, my lord, he blurted out before ser rodrik could speak. we will bring the matter to my brother robb. oh, and lady hornwood. leobald seemed surprised that he had spoken. i'm grateful, my prince, he said, but bran saw pity in his pale blue eyes, mingled perhaps with a little gladness that the cripple was, after all, not his son. for a moment he hated the man. maester luwin liked him better, though. beren tallhart may well be our best answer, he told them when leobald had gone. by blood he is half hornwood. if he takes his uncle's name... ... he will still be a boy, said ser rodrik, and hard-pressed to hold his lands against the likes of mors umber or this bastard of roose bolton's. we must think on this carefully. robb should have our best counsel before he makes his decision. it may come down to practicalities, said maester luwin. which lord he most needs to court. the riverlands are part of his realm, he may wish to cement the alliance by wedding lady hornwood to one of the lords of the trident. a blackwood, perhaps, or a frey- lady hornwood can have one of our freys, said bran. she can have both of them if she likes. you are not kind, my prince, ser rodrik chided gently. neither are the walders. scowling, bran stared down at the table and said nothing. in the days that followed, ravens arrived from other lordly houses, bearing regrets. the bastard of the dreadfort would not be joining them, the mormonts and karstarks had all gone south with robb, lord locke was too old to dare the journey, lady flint was heavy with child, there was sickness at widow's watch. finally all of the principal vassals of house stark had been heard from save for howland reed the crannogman, who had not set foot outside his swamps for many a year, and the cerwyns whose castle lay a half day's ride from winterfell. lord cerwyn was a captive of the lannisters, but his son, a lad of fourteen, arrived one bright, blustery morning at the head of two dozen lances. bran was riding dancer around the yard when they came through the gate. he trotted over to greet them. cley cerwyn had always been a friend to bran and his brothers. good morrow, bran, cley called out cheerfully. or must i call you prince bran now? only if you want. cley laughed. why not? everyone else is a king or prince these days. did stannis write winterfell as well? stannis? i don't know. he's a king now too, cley confided. he says queen cersei bedded her brother, so joffrey is a bastard. joffrey the illborn, one of the cerwyn knights growled. small wonder he's faithless, with the kingslayer for a father. aye, said another, the gods hate incest. look how they brought down the targaryens. for a moment bran felt as though he could not breathe. a giant hand was crushing his chest. he felt as though he was falling, and clutched desperately at dancer's reins. his terror must have shown on his face. bran? cley cerwyn said. are you unwell? it's only another king. robb will beat him too. he turned dancer's head toward the stables, oblivious to the puzzled stares the cerwyns gave him. his blood was roaring in his ears, and had he not been strapped onto his saddle he might well have fallen. that night bran prayed to his father's gods for dreamless sleep. if the gods heard, they mocked his hopes, for the nightmare they sent was worse than any wolf dream. fly or die! cried the three-eyed crow as it pecked at him. he wept and pleaded but the crow had no pity. it put out his left eye and then his right, and when he was blind in the dark it pecked at his brow, driving its terrible sharp beak deep into his skull. he screamed until he was certain his lungs must burst. the pain was an axe splitting his head apart, but when the crow wrenched out its beak all slimy with bits of bone and brain, bran could see again. what he saw made him gasp in fear. he was clinging to a tower miles high, and his fingers were slipping, nails scrabbling at the stone, his legs dragging him down, stupid useless dead legs. help me! he cried. a golden man appeared in the sky above him and pulled him up. the things i do for love, he murmured softly as he tossed him out kicking into empty air. dancer was draped in bardings of snowy white wool emblazoned with the grey direwolf of house stark, while bran wore grey breeches and white doublet, his sleeves and collar trimmed with vair. over his heart was his wolf s-head brooch of silver and polished jet. he would sooner have had summer than a silver wolf on his breast, but ser rodrik had been unyielding. the low stone steps balked dancer only for a moment. when bran urged her on, she took them easily. beyond the wide oak-and-iron doors, eight long rows of trestle tables filled winterfell's great hall, four on each side of the center aisle. men crowded shoulder to shoulder on the benches. stark! they called as bran trotted past, rising to their feet. winterfell! winterfell! he was old enough to know that it was not truly him they shouted for-it was the harvest they cheered, it was robb and his victories, it was his lord father and his grandfather and all the starks going back eight thousand years. still, it made him swell with pride. for so long as it took him to ride the length of that hall he forgot that he was broken. yet when he reached the dais, with every eye upon him, osha and hodor undid his straps and buckles, lifted him off dancer's back, and carried him to the high seat of his fathers. ser rodrik was seated to bran's left, his daughter beth beside him. rickon was to his right, his mop of shaggy auburn hair grown so long that it brushed his ermine mantle. he had refused to let anyone cut it since their mother had gone. the last girl to try had been bitten for her efforts. i wanted to ride too, he said as hodor led dancer away. i ride better than you. you don't, so hush up, he told his brother. ser rodrik bellowed for quiet. bran raised his voice. he bid them welcome in the name of his brother, the king in the north, and asked them to thank the gods old and new for robb's victories and the bounty of the harvest. may there be a hundred more, he finished, raising his father's silver goblet. a hundred more! pewter tankards, clay cups, and iron-banded drinking horns clashed together. bran's wine was sweetened with honey and fragrant with cinnamon and cloves, but stronger than he was used to. he could feel its hot snaky fingers wriggling through his chest as he swallowed. by the time he set down the goblet, his head was swimming. you did well, bran, ser rodrik told him. lord eddard would have been most proud. down the table, maester luwin nodded his agreement as the servers began to carry in the food. such food bran had never seen; course after course after course, so much that he could not manage more than a bite or two of each dish. there were great joints of aurochs roasted with leeks, venison pies chunky with carrots, bacon, and mushrooms, mutton chops sauced in honey and cloves, savory duck, peppered boar, goose, skewers of pigeon and capon, beef-and-barley stew, cold fruit soup. lord wyman had brought twenty casks offish from white harbor packed in salt and seaweed; whitefish and winkles, crabs and mussels, clams, herring, cod, salmon, lobster and lampreys. there was black bread and honeycakes and oaten biscuits; there were turnips and pease and beets, beans and squash and huge red onions; there were baked apples and berry tarts and pears poached in strongwine. wheels of white cheese were set at every table, above and below the salt, and flagons of hot spice wine and chilled autumn ale were passed up and down the tables. lord wyman's musicians played bravely and well, but harp and fiddle and horn were soon drowned beneath a tide of talk and laughter, the clash of cup and plate, and the snarling of hounds fighting for table scraps. the singer sang good songs, iron lances and the burning of the ships and the bear and the maiden fair, but only hodor seemed to be listening. he stood beside the piper, hopping from one foot to the other. the noise swelled to a steady rumbling roar, a great heady stew of sound. ser rodrik talked with maester luwin above beth's curly head, while rickon screamed happily at the walders. bran had not wanted the freys at the high table, but the maester reminded him that they would soon be kin. robb was to marry one of their aunts, and arya one of their uncles. she never will, bran said, not arya, but maester luwin was unyielding, so there they were beside rickon. the serving men brought every dish to bran first, that he might take the lord's portion if he chose. by the time they reached the ducks, he could eat no more. after that he nodded approval at each course in turn, and waved it away. if the dish smelled especially choice, he would send it to one of the lords on the dais, a gesture of friendship and favor that maester luwin told him he must make. he sent some salmon down to poor sad lady hornwood, the boar to the boisterous umbers, a dish of goose-in-berries to cley cerwyn, and a huge lobster to joseth the master of horse, who was neither lord nor guest, but had seen to dancer's training and made it possible for bran to ride. he sent sweets to hodor and old nan as well, for no reason but he loved them. ser rodrik reminded him to send something to his foster brothers, so he sent little walder some boiled beets and big walder the buttered turnips. on the benches below, winterfell men mixed with smallfolk from the winter town, friends from the nearer holdfasts, and the escorts of their lordly guests. some faces bran had never seen before, others he knew as well as his own, yet they all seemed equally foreign to him. he watched them as from a distance, as if he still sat in the window of his bedchamber looking down on the yard below, seeing everything yet a part of nothing. osha moved among the tables, pouring ale. one of leobald tallhart's men slid a hand up under her skirts and she broke the flagon over his head, to roars of laughter. yet mikken had his hand down some woman's bodice, and she seemed not to mind. bran watched farlen make his red bitch beg for bones and smiled at old nan plucking at the crust of a hot pie with wrinkled fingers. on the dais, lord wyman attacked a steaming plate of lampreys as if they were an enemy host. he was so fat that ser rodrik had commanded that a special wide chair be built for him to sit in, but he laughed loud and often, and bran thought he liked him. poor wan lady hornwood sat beside him, her face a stony mask as she picked listlessly at her food. at the opposite end of the high table, hothen and mors were playing a drinking game, slamming their horns together as hard as knights meeting in joust. it is too hot here, and too noisy, and they are all getting drunk. bran itched under his grey and white woolens, and suddenly he wished he were anywhere but here. it is cool in the godswood now steam is rising off the hot pools, and the red leaves of the weirwood are rustling. the smells are richer than here, and before long the moon will rise and my brother will sing to it. bran? ser rodrik said. you do not eat. the waking dream had been so vivid, for a moment bran had not known where he was. i'll have more later, he said. my belly's full to bursting. the old knight's white mustache was pink with wine. you have done well, bran. here, and at the audiences. you will be an especial fine lord one day, i think. i want to be a knight. bran took another sip of the spiced honey wine from his father's goblet, grateful for something to clutch. the lifelike head of a snarling direwolf was raised on the side of the cup. he felt the silver muzzle pressing against his palm, and remembered the last time he had seen his lord father drink from this goblet. it had been the night of the welcoming feast, when king robert had brought his court to winterfell. summer still reigned then. his parents had shared the dais with robert and his queen, with her brothers beside her. uncle benjen had been there too, all in black. bran and his brothers and sisters sat with the king's children, joffrey and tommen and princess myrcella, who'd spent the whole meal gazing at robb with adoring eyes. arya made faces across the table when no one was looking; sansa listened raptly while the king's high harper sang songs of chivalry, and rickon kept asking why jon wasn't with them. because he's a bastard, bran finally had to whisper to him. and now they are all gone. it was as if some cruel god had reached down with a great hand and swept them all away, the girls to captivity, jon to the wall, robb and mother to war, king robert and father to their graves, and perhaps uncle benjen as well... even down on the benches, there were new men at the tables. jory was dead, and fat tom, and porther, alyn, desmond, hullen who had been master of horse, harwin his son... all those who had gone south with his father, even septa mordane and vayon poole. the rest had ridden to war with robb, and might soon be dead as well for all bran knew. he liked hayhead and poxy tym and skittrick and the other new men well enough, but he missed his old friends. he looked up and down the benches at all the faces happy and sad, and wondered who would be missing next year and the year after. he might have cried then, but he couldn't. he was the stark in winterfell, his father's son and his brother's heir, and almost a man grown. at the foot of the hall, the doors opened and a gust of cold air made the torches flame brighter for an instant. alebelly led two new guests into the feast. the lady meera of house reed, the rotund guardsman bellowed over the clamor. with her brother, jojen, of greywater watch. men looked up from their cups and trenchers to eye the newcomers. bran heard little walder mutter, frogeaters, to big walder beside him. ser rodrik climbed to his feet. be welcome, friends, and share this harvest with us. serving men hurried to lengthen the table on the dais, fetching trestles and chairs. who are they? rickon asked. mudmen, answered little walder disdainfully. they're thieves and cravens, and they have green teeth from eating frogs. maester luwin crouched beside bran's seat to whisper counsel in his ear. you must greet these ones warmly. i had not thought to see them here, but... you know who they are? bran nodded. crannogmen. from the neck. howland reed was a great friend to your father, ser rodrik told him. these two are his, it would seem. as the newcomers walked the length of the hall, bran saw that one was indeed a girl, though he would never have known it by her dress. she wore lambskin breeches soft with long use, and a sleeveless jerkin armored in bronze scales. though near robb's age, she was slim as a boy, with long brown hair knotted behind her head and only the barest suggestion of breasts. a woven net hung from one slim hip, a long bronze knife from the other; under her arm she carried an old iron greathelm spotted with rust; a frog spear and round leathern shield were strapped to her back. her brother was several years younger and bore no weapons. all his garb was green, even to the leather of his boots, and when he came closer bran saw that his eyes were the color of moss, though his teeth looked as white as anyone else's. both reeds were slight of build, slender as swords and scarcely taller than bran himself. they went to one knee before the dais. my lords of stark, the girl said. the years have passed in their hundreds and their thousands since my folk first swore their fealty to the king in the north. my lord father has sent us here to say the words again, for all our people. she is looking at me, bran realized. he had to make some answer. my brother robb is fighting in the south, he said, but you can say your words to me, if you like. to winterfell we pledge the faith of greywater, they said together. hearth and heart and harvest we yield up to you, my lord. our swords and spears and arrows are yours to command. grant mercy to our weak, help to our helpless, and justice to all, and we shall never fail you. i swear it by earth and water, said the boy in green. i swear it by bronze and iron, his sister said. we swear it by ice and fire, they finished together. bran groped for words. was he supposed to swear something back to them? their oath was not one he had been taught. may your winters be short and your summers bountiful, he said. that was usually a good thing to say. rise. i'm brandon stark. the girl, meera, got to her feet and helped her brother up. the boy stared at bran all the while. we bring you gifts offish and frog and fowl, he said. i thank you. bran wondered if he would have to eat a frog to be polite. i offer you the meat and mead of winterfell. he tried to recall all he had been taught of the crannogmen, who dwelt amongst the bogs of the neck and seldom left their wetlands. they were a poor folk, fishers and frog-hunters who lived in houses of thatch and woven reeds on floating islands hidden in the deeps of the swamp. it was said that they were a cowardly people who fought with poisoned weapons and preferred to hide from foes rather than face them in open battle. and yet howland reed had been one of father's staunchest companions during the war for king robert's crown, before bran was born. the boy, jojen, looked about the hall curiously as he took his seat. where are the direwolves? in the godswood, rickon answered. shaggy was bad. my brother would like to see them, the girl said. little walder spoke up loudly. he'd best watch they don't see him, or they'll take a bite out of him. they won't bite if i'm there. bran was pleased that they wanted to see the wolves. summer won't anyway, and he'll keep shaggydog away. he was curious about these mudmen. he could not recall ever seeing one before. his father had sent letters to the lord of greywater over the years, but none of the crannogmen had ever called at winterfell. he would have liked to talk to them more, but the great hall was so noisy that it was hard to hear anyone who wasn't right beside you. ser rodrik was right beside bran. do they truly eat frogs? he asked the old knight. aye, ser rodrik said. frogs and fish and lizard-lions, and all manner of birds. maybe they don't have sheep and cattle, bran thought. he commanded the serving men to bring them mutton chops and a slice off the aurochs and fill their trenchers with beef-and-barley stew. they seemed to like that well enough. the girl caught him staring at her and smiled. bran blushed and looked away. much later, after all the sweets had been served and washed down with gallons of surnmerwine, the food was cleared and the tables shoved back against the walls to make room for the dancing. the music grew wilder, the drummers joined in, and hother umber brought forth a huge curved warhorn banded in silver. when the singer reached the part in the night that ended where the night's watch rode forth to meet the others in the battle for the dawn, he blew a blast that set all the dogs to barking. two glover men began a spinning skirl on bladder and woodharp. mors umber was the first on his feet. he seized a passing serving girl by the arm, knocking the flagon of wine out of her hands to shatter on the floor. amidst the rushes and bones and bits of bread that littered the stone, he whirled her and spun her and tossed her in the air. the girl squealed with laughter and turned red as her skirts swirled and lifted. others soon joined in. hodor began to dance all by himself, while lord wyman asked little beth cassel to partner him. for all his size, he moved gracefully. when he tired, cley cerwyn danced with the child in his stead. ser rodrik approached lady hornwood, but she made her excuses and took her leave. bran watched long enough to be polite, and then had hodor summoned. he was hot and tired, flushed from the wine, and the dancing made him sad. it was something else he could never do. i want to go. hodor, hodor shouted back, kneeling. maester luwin and hayhead lifted him into his basket. the folk of winterfell had seen this sight half a hundred times, but doubtless it looked queer to the guests, some of whom were more curious than polite. bran felt the stares. they went out the rear rather than walk the length of the hall, bran ducking his head as they passed through the lord's door. in the dim-lit gallery outside the great hall, they came upon joseth the master of horse engaged in a different sort of riding. he had some woman bran did not know shoved up against the wall, her skirts around her waist. she was giggling until hodor stopped to watch. then she screamed. leave them be, hodor, bran had to tell him. take me to my bedchamber. hodor carried him up the winding steps to his tower and knelt beside one of the iron bars that mikken had driven into the wall. bran used the bars to move himself to the bed, and hodor pulled off his boots and breeches. you can go back to the feast now, but don't go bothering joseth and that woman, bran said. hodor, hodor replied, bobbing his head. when he blew out his bedside candle, darkness covered him like a soft, familiar blanket. the faint sound of music drifted through his shuttered window. something his father had told him once when he was little came back to him suddenly. he had asked lord eddard if the kingsguard were truly the finest knights in the seven kingdoms. no longer, he answered, but once they were a marvel, a shining lesson to the world. was there one who was best of all? the finest knight i ever saw was ser arthur dayne, who fought with a blade called dawn, forged from the heart of a fallen star. they called him the sword of the morning, and he would have killed me but for howland reed. father had gotten sad then, and he would say no more. bran wished he had asked him what he meant. he went to sleep with his head full of knights in gleaming armor, fighting with swords that shone like starfire, but when the dream came he was in the godswood again. the smells from the kitchen and the great hall were so strong that it was almost as if he had never left the feast. he prowled beneath the trees, his brother close behind him. this night was wildly alive, full of the howling of the man-pack at their play. the sounds made him restless. he wanted to run, to hunt, he wanted to. the rattle of iron made his ears prick up. his brother heard it too. they raced through the undergrowth toward the sound. bounding across the still water at the foot of the old white one, he caught the scent of a stranger, the mansmell well mixed with leather and earth and iron. the intruders had pushed a few yards into the wood when he came upon them; a female and a young male, with no taint of fear to them, even when he showed them the white of his teeth. his brother growled low in his throat, yet still they did not run. here they come, the female said. meera, some part of him whispered, some wisp of the sleeping boy lost in the wolf dream. did you know they would be so big? they will be bigger still before they are grown, the young male said, watching them with eyes large, green, and unafraid. the black one is full of fear and rage, but the grey is strong... stronger than he knows... can you feel him, sister? no, she said, moving a hand to the hilt of the long brown knife she wore. go careful, joien. he won't hurt me. this is not the day i die. the male walked toward them, unafraid, and reached out for his muzzle, a touch as light as a summer breeze. yet at the brush of those fingers the wood dissolved and the very ground turned to smoke beneath his feet and swirled away laughing, and then he was spinning and falling, falling, falling... meera moved in a wary circle, her net dangling loose in her left hand, the slender three- pronged frog spear poised in her right. summer followed her with his golden eyes, turning, his tail held stiff and tall. watching, watching... yai! the girl shouted, the spear darting out. the wolf slid to the left and leapt before she could draw back the spear. meera cast her net, the tangles unfolding in the air before her. summer's leap carried him into it. he dragged it with him as he slammed into her chest and knocked her over backward. her spear went spinning away. the damp grass cushioned her fall but the breath went out of her in an oof. the wolf crouched atop her. bran hooted. you lose. she wins, her brother jojen said. summer's snared. he was right, bran saw. thrashing and growling at the net, trying to rip free, summer was only ensnaring himself worse. nor could he bite through. let him out. laughing, the reed girl threw her arms around the tangled wolf and rolled them both. summer gave a piteous whine, his legs kicking against the cords that bound them. meera knelt, undid a twist, pulled at a corner, tugged deftly here and there, and suddenly the direwolf was bounding free. summer, to me. bran spread his arms. watch, he said, an instant before the wolf bowled into him. he clung with all his strength as the wolf dragged him bumping through the grass. they wrestled and rolled and clung to each other, one snarling and yapping, the other laughing. in the end it was bran sprawled on top, the mud-spattered direwolf under him. good wolf, he panted. summer licked him across the ear. meera shook her head. does he never grow angry? not with me. bran grabbed the wolf by his ears and summer snapped at him fiercely, but it was all in play. sometimes he tears my garb but he's never drawn blood. your blood, you mean. if he'd gotten past my net... he wouldn't hurt you. he knows i like you. all of the other lords and knights had departed within a day or two of the harvest feast, but the reeds had stayed to become bran's constant companions. jojen was so solemn that old nan called him little grandfather, but meera reminded bran of his sister arya. she wasn't scared to get dirty, and she could run and fight and throw as good as a boy. she was older than arya, though; almost sixteen, a woman grown. they were both older than bran, even though his ninth name day had finally come and gone, but they never treated him like a child. i wish you were our wards instead of the walders. he began to struggle toward the nearest tree. his dragging and wriggling was unseemly to watch, but when meera moved to lift him he said, no, don't help me. he rolled clumsily and pushed and squirmed backward, using the strength of his arms, until he was sitting with his back to the trunk of a tall ash. see, i told you. summer lay down with his head in bran's lap. i never knew anyone who fought with a net before, he told meera while he scratched the direwo if between the ears. did your master-at- arms teach you net-fighting? my father taught me. we have no knights at greywater. no master-at-arms, and no maester. who keeps your ravens? she smiled. ravens can't find greywater watch, no more than our enemies can. why not? because it moves, she told him. bran had never heard of a moving castle before. he looked at her uncertainly, but he couldn't tell whether she was teasing him or not. i wish i could see it. do you think your lord father would let me come visit when the war is over? you would be most welcome, my prince. then or now. now? bran had spent his whole life at winterfell. he yearned to see far places. i could ask ser rodrik when he returns. the old knight was off east, trying to set to rights the trouble there. roose bolton's bastard had started it by seizing lady hornwood as she returned from the harvest feast, marrying her that very night even though he was young enough to be her son. then lord manderly had taken her castle. to protect the hornwood holdings from the boltons, he had written, but ser rodrik had been almost as angry with him as with the bastard. ser rodrik might let me go. maester luwin never would. sitting cross-legged under the weirwood, jojen reed regarded him solemnly. it would be good if you left winterfell, bran. it would? yes. and sooner rather than later. my brother has the greensight, said meera. he dreams things that haven't happened, but sometimes they do. there is no sometimes, meera. a look passed between them; him sad, her defiant. tell me what's going to happen, bran said. i will, said jojen, if you'll tell me about your dreams. the godswood grew quiet. bran could hear leaves rustling, and hodor's distant splashing from the hot pools. he thought of the golden man and the three-eyed crow, remembered the crunch of bones between his jaws and the coppery taste of blood. i don't have dreams. maester luwin gives me sleeping draughts. do they help? sometimes. meera said, all of winterfell knows you wake at night shouting and sweating, bran. the women talk of it at the well, and the guards in their hall. tell us what frightens you so much, said jojen. i don't want to. anyway, it's only dreams. maester luwin says dreams might mean anything or nothing. my brother dreams as other boys do, and those dreams might mean anything, meera said, but the green dreams are different. jojen's eyes were the color of moss, and sometimes when he looked at you he seemed to be seeing something else. like now. i dreamed of a winged wolfhound to earth with grey stone chains, he said. it was a green dream, so i knew it was true. a crow was trying to peck through the chains, but the stone was too hard and his beak could only chip at them. did the crow have three eyes? jojen nodded. summer raised his head from bran's lap, and gazed at the mudman with his dark golden eyes. when i was little i almost died of greywater fever. that was when the crow came to me. he came to me after i fell, bran blurted. i was asleep for a long time. he said i had to fly or die, and i woke up, only i was broken and i couldn't fly after all. you can if you want to. picking up her net, meera shook out the last tangles and began arranging it in loose folds. you are the winged wolf, bran, said jojen. i wasn't sure when we first came, but now i am. the crow sent us here to break your chains. is the crow at greywater? no. the crow is in the north. at the wall? bran had always wanted to see the wall. his bastard brother jon was there now, a man of the night's watch. beyond the wall. meera reed hung the net from her belt. when jojen told our lord father what he'd dreamed, he sent us to winterfell. how would i break the chains, jojen? bran asked. open your eye. they are open can't you see? two are open. jojen pointed. one, two. i only have two. you have three. the crow gave you the third, but you will not open it. he had a slow soft way of speaking. with two eyes you see my face. with three you could see my heart. with two you can see that oak tree there. with three you could see the acorn the oak grew from and the stump that it will one day become. with two you see no farther than your walls. with three you would gaze south to the summer sea and north beyond the wall. summer got to his feet. i don't need to see so far. bran made a nervous smile. i'm tired of talking about crows. let's talk about wolves. or lizard-lions. have you ever hunted one, meera? we don't have them here. meera plucked her frog spear out of the bushes. they live in the water. in slow streams and deep swamps- her brother interrupted. did you dream of a lizard- lion? no, said bran. i told you, i don't want- did you dream of a wolf? he was making bran angry. i don't have to tell you my dreams. i'm the prince. i'm the stark in winterfell. was it summer? you be quiet. the night of the harvest feast, you dreamed you were summer in the godswood, didn't you? stop it! bran shouted. summer slid toward the weirwood, his white teeth bared. jojen reed took no mind. when i touched summer, i felt you in him. just as you are in him now. you couldn't have. i was in bed. i was sleeping. you were in the godswood, all in grey. it was only a bad dream... jojen stood. i felt you. i felt you fall. is that what scares you, the falling? the falling, bran thought, and the golden man, the queen's brother, he scares me too, but mostly the falling. he did not say it, though. how could he? he had not been able to tell ser rodrik or maester luwin, and he could not tell the reeds either. if he didn't talk about it, maybe he would forget. he had never wanted to remember. it might not even be a true remembering. do you fall every night, bran? jojen asked quietly. a low rumbling growl rose from summer's throat, and there was no play in it. he stalked forward, all teeth and hot eyes. meera stepped between the wolf and her brother, spear in hand. keep him back, bran. jojen is making him angry. meera shook out her net. it's your anger, bran, her brother said. your fear. it isn't. i'm not a wolf. yet he'd howled with them in the night, and tasted blood in his wolf dreams. part of you is summer, and part of summer is you. you know that, bran. summer rushed forward, but meera blocked him, jabbing with the three-pronged spear. the wolf twisted aside, circling, stalking. meera turned to face him. call him back, bran. summer! bran shouted. to me, summer! he slapped an open palm down on the meat of his thigh. his hand tingled, though his dead leg felt nothing. the direwo if lunged again, and again meera's spear darted out. summer dodged, circled back. the bushes rustled, and a lean black shape came padding from behind the weirwood, teeth bared. the scent was strong; his brother had smelled his rage. bran felt hairs rise on the back of his neck. meera stood beside her brother, with wolves to either side. bran, call them off. i can't! jojen, up the tree. there's no need. today is not the day i die. do it! she screamed, and her brother scrambled up the trunk of the weirwood, using the face for his handholds. the direwolves closed. meera abandoned spear and net, jumped up, and grabbed the branch above her head. shaggy' s jaws snapped shut beneath her ankle as she swung up and over the limb. summer sat back on his haunches and howled, while shaggydog worried the net, shaking it in his teeth. only then did bran remember that they were not alone. he cupped hands around his mouth. hodor! he shouted. hodor! hodor! he was badly frightened and somehow ashamed. they won't hurt hodor, he assured his treed friends. a few moments passed before they heard a tuneless humming. hodor arrived half-dressed and mud-spattered from his visit to the hot pools, but bran had never been so glad to see him. hodor, help me. chase off the wolves. chase them off. hodor went to it gleefully, waving his arms and stamping his huge feet, shouting hodor, hodor, running first at one wolf and then the other. shaggydog was the first to flee, slinking back into the foliage with a final snarl. when summer had enough, he came back to bran and lay down beside him. no sooner did meera touch ground than she snatched up her spear and net again. jojen never took his eyes off summer. we will talk again, he promised bran. it was the wolves, it wasn't me. he did not understand why they'd gotten so wild. maybe maester luwin was right to lock them in the godswood. hodor, he said, bring me to maester luwin. the maester's turret below the rookery was one of bran's favorite places. luwin was hopelessly untidy, but his clutter of books and scrolls and bottles was as familiar and comforting to bran as his bald spot and the flapping sleeves of his loose grey robes. he liked the ravens too. he found luwin perched on a high stool, writing. with ser rodrik gone, all of the governance of the castle had fallen on his shoulders. my prince, he said when hodor entered, you're early for lessons today. the maester spent several hours every afternoon tutoring bran, rickon, and the walder freys. hodor, stand still. bran grasped a wall sconce with both hands and used it to pull himself up and out of the basket. he hung for a moment by his arms until hodor carried him to a chair. meera says her brother has the greensight. maester luwin scratched at the side of his nose with his writing quill. does she now? he nodded. you told me that the children of the forest had the greensight. i remember. some claimed to have that power. their wise men were called greenseers. was it magic? call it that for want of a better word, if you must. at heart it was only a different sort of knowledge. what was it? luwin set down his quill. no one truly knows, bran. the children are gone from the world, and their wisdom with them. it had to do with the faces in the trees, we think. the first men believed that the greenseers could see through the eyes of the weirwoods. that was why they cut down the trees whenever they warred upon the children. supposedly the greenseers also had power over the beasts of the wood and the birds in the trees. even fish. does the reed boy claim such powers? no. i don't think. but he has dreams that come true sometimes, meera says. all of us have dreams that come true sometimes. you dreamed of your lord father in the crypts before we knew he was dead, remember? rickon did too. we dreamed the same dream. call it greens ight, if you wish... but remember as well all those tens of thousands of dreams that you and rickon have dreamed that did not come true. do you perchance recall what i taught you about the chain collar that every maester wears? bran thought for a moment, trying to remember. a maester forges his chain in the citadel of oldtown. it's a chain because you swear to serve, and it's made of different metals because you serve the realm and the realm has different sorts of people. every time you learn something you get another link. black iron is for ravenry, silver for healing, gold for sums and numbers. i don't remember them all. luwin slid a finger up under his collar and began to turn it, inch by inch. he had a thick neck for a small man, and the chain was tight, but a few pulls had it all the way around. this is valyrian steel, he said when the link of dark grey metal lay against the apple of his throat. only one maester in a hundred wears such a link. this signifies that i have studied what the citadel calls the higher mysteries-magic, for want of a better word. a fascinating pursuit, but of small use, which is why so few maesters trouble themselves with it. all those who study the higher mysteries try their own hand at spells, soon or late. i yielded to the temptation too, i must confess it. well, i was a boy, and what boy does not secretly wish to find hidden powers in himself? i got no more for my efforts than a thousand boys before me, and a thousand since. sad to say, magic does not work. sometimes it does, bran protested. i had that dream, and rickon did too. and there are mages and warlocks in the east... there are men who call themselves mages and warlocks, maester luwin said. i had a friend at the citadel who could pull a rose out of your ear, but he was no more magical than i was. oh, to be sure, there is much we do not understand. the years pass in their hundreds and their thousands, and what does any man see of life but a few summers, a few winters? we look at mountains and call them eternal, and so they seem... but in the course of time, mountains rise and fall, rivers change their courses, stars fall from the sky, and great cities sink beneath the sea. even gods die, we think. everything changes. perhaps magic was once a mighty force in the world, but no longer. what little remains is no more than the wisp of smoke that lingers in the air after a great fire has burned out, and even that is fading. valyria was the last ember, and valyria is gone. the dragons are no more, the giants are dead, the children of the forest forgotten with all their lore. no, my prince. jojen reed may have had a dream or two that he believes came true, but he does not have the greensight. no living man has that power. bran said as much to meera reed when she came to him at dusk as he sat in his window seat watching the lights flicker to life. i'm sorry for what happened with the wolves. summer shouldn't have tried to hurt jojen, but jojen shouldn't have said all that about my dreams. the crow lied when he said i could fly, and your brother lied too. or perhaps your maester is wrong. he isn't. even my father relied on his counsel. your father listened, i have no doubt. but in the end, he decided for himself. bran, will you let me tell you about a dream jojen dreamed of you and your fosterling brothers? the walders aren't my brothers. she paid that no heed. you were sitting at supper, but instead of a servant, maester luwin brought you your food. he served you the king's cut off the roast, the meat rare and bloody, but with a savory smell that made everyone's mouth water. the meat he served the freys was old and grey and dead. yet they liked their supper better than you liked yours. i don't understand. you will, my brother says. when you do, we'll talk again. bran was almost afraid to sit to supper that night, but when he did, it was pigeon pie they set before him. everyone else was served the same, and he couldn't see that anything was wrong with the food they served the walders. maester luwin has the truth of it, he told himself. nothing bad was coming to winterfell, no matter what jojen said. bran was relieved... but disappointed too. so long as there was magic, anything could happen. ghosts could walk, trees could talk, and broken boys could grow up to be knights. but there isn't, he said aloud in the darkness of his bed. there's no magic, and the stories are just stories. and he would never walk, nor fly, nor be a knight. alebelly found him in the forge, working the bellows for mikken. maester wants you in the turret, m'lord prince. there's been a bird from the king. from robb? excited, bran did not wait for hodor, but let alebelly carry him up the steps. he was a big man, though not so big as hodor and nowhere near as strong. by the time they reached the maester's turret he was red-faced and puffing. rickon was there before them, and both walder freys as well. maester luwin sent alebelly away and closed his door. my lords, he said gravely, we have had a message from his grace, with both good news and ill. he has won a great victory in the west, shattering a lannister army at a place named oxcross, and has taken several castles as well. he writes us from ashemark, formerly the stronghold of house marbrand. rickon tugged at the maester's robe. is robb coming home? not just yet, i fear. there are battles yet to fight. was it lord tywin he defeated? asked bran. no, said the maester. ser stafford lannister commanded the enemy host. he was slain in the battle. bran had never even heard of ser stafford lannister. he found himself agreeing with big walder when he said, lord tywin is the only one who matters. tell robb i want him to come home, said rickon. he can bring his wolf home too, and mother and father. though he knew lord eddard was dead, sometimes rickon forgot... willfully, bran suspected. his little brother was stubborn as only a boy of four can be. bran was glad for robb's victory, but disquieted as well. he remembered what osha had said the day that his brother had led his army out of winterfell. he's marching the wrong way, the wildling woman had insisted. sadly, no victory is without cost. maester luwin turned to the walders. my lords, your uncle ser stevron frey was among those who lost their lives at oxcross. he took a wound in the battle, robb writes. it was not thought to be serious, but three days later he died in his tent, asleep. big walder shrugged. he was very old. five-and-sixty, i think. too old for battles. he was always saying he was tired. little walder hooted. tired of waiting for our grandfather to die, you mean. does this mean ser emmon's the heir now? don't be stupid, his cousin said. the sons of the first son come before the second son. ser ryman is next in line, and then edwyn and black walder and petyr pimple. and then aegon and all his sons. ryman is old too, said little walder. past forty, i bet. and he has a bad belly. do you think he'll be lord? i'll be lord. i don't care if he is. maester luwin cut in sharply. you ought to be ashamed of such talk, my lords. where is your grief? your uncle is dead. yes, said little walder. we're very sad. they weren't, though. bran got a sick feeling in his belly. they like the taste of this dish better than i do. he asked maester luwin to be excused. very well. the maester rang for help. hodor must have been busy in the stables. it was osha who came. she was stronger than alebelly, though, and had no trouble lifting bran in her arms and carrying him down the steps. osha, bran asked as they crossed the yard. do you know the way north? to the wall and... and even past? the way's easy. look for the ice dragon, and chase the blue star in the rider's eye. she backed through a door and started up the winding steps. and there are still giants there, and... the rest... the others, and the children of the forest too? the giants i've seen, the children i've heard tell of, and the white walkers... why do you want to know? did you ever see a three-eyed crow? no. she laughed. and i can't say i'd want to. osha kicked open the door to his bedchamber and set him in his window seat, where he could watch the yard below. it seemed only a few heartbeats after she took her leave that the door opened again, and jojen reed entered unbidden, with his sister meera behind him. you heard about the bird? bran asked. the other boy nodded. it wasn't a supper like you said. it was a letter from robb, and we didn't eat it, but- the green dreams take strange shapes sometimes, jojen admitted. the truth of them is not always easy to understand. tell me the bad thing you dreamed, bran said. the bad thing that is coming to winterfell. does my lord prince believe me now? will he trust my words, no matter how queer they sound in his ears? bran nodded. it is the sea that comes. the sea? i dreamed that the sea was lapping all around winterfell. i saw black waves crashing against the gates and towers, and then the salt water came flowing over the walls and filled the castle. drowned men were floating in the yard. when i first dreamed the dream, back at greywater, i didn't know their faces, but now i do. that alebelly is one, the guard who called our names at the feast. your septon's another. your smith as well. mikken? bran was as confused as he was dismayed. but the sea is hundreds and hundreds of leagues away, and winterfell's walls are so high the water couldn't get in even if it did come. in the dark of night the salt sea will flow over these walls, said jojen. i saw the dead, bloated and drowned. we have to tell them, bran said. alebelly and mikken, and septon chayle. tell them not to drown. it will not save them, replied the boy in green. meera came to the window seat and put a hand on his shoulder. they will not believe, bran. no more than you did. jojen sat on bran's bed. tell me what you dream. he was scared, even then, but he had sworn to trust them, and a stark of winterfell keeps his sworn word. there's different kinds, he said slowly. there's the wolf dreams, those aren't so bad as the others. i run and hunt and kill squirrels. and there's dreams where the crow comes and tells me to fly. sometimes the tree is in those dreams too, calling my name. that frightens me. but the worst dreams are when i fall. he looked down into the yard, feeling miserable. i never used to fall before. when i climbed. i went everyplace, up on the roofs and along the walls, i used to feed the crows in the burned tower. mother was afraid that i would fall but i knew i never would. only i did, and now when i sleep i fall all the time. meera gave his shoulder a squeeze. is that all? i guess. warg, said jojen reed. bran looked at him, his eyes wide. what? warg. shapechanger. beast ling. that is what they will call you, if they should ever hear of your wolf dreams. the names made him afraid again. who will call me? your own folk. in fear. some will hate you if they know what you are. some will even try to kill you. old nan told scary stories of beastlings and shapechangers sometimes. in the stories they were always evil. i'm not like that, bran said. i'm not. it's only dreams. the wolf dreams are no true dreams. you have your eye closed tight whenever you're awake, but as you drift off it flutters open and your soul seeks out its other half. the power is strong in you. i don't want it. i want to be a knight. a knight is what you want. a warg is what you are. you can't change that, bran, you can't deny it or push it away. you are the winged wolf, but you will never fly. jojen got up and walked to the window. unless you open your eye. he put two fingers together and poked bran in the forehead, hard. when he raised his hand to the spot, bran felt only the smooth unbroken skin. there was no eye, not even a closed one. how can i open it if it's not there? you will never find the eye with your fingers, bran. you must search with your heart. jojen studied bran's face with those strange green eyes. or are you afraid? maester luwin says there's nothing in dreams that a man need fear.  there is, said jojen. what? the past. the future. the truth. they left him more muddled than ever. when he was alone, bran tried to open his third eye, but he didn't know how. no matter how he wrinkled his forehead and poked at it, he couldn't see any different than he'd done before. in the days that followed, he tried to warn others about what jojen had seen, but it didn't go as he wanted. mikken thought it was funny. the sea, is it? happens i always wanted to see the sea. never got where i could go to it, though. so now it's coming to me, is it? the gods are good, to take such trouble for a poor smith. the gods will take me when they see fit, septon chayle said quietly, though i scarcely think it likely that i'll drown, bran. i grew up on the banks of the white knife, you know. i'm quite the strong swimmer. alebelly was the only one who paid the warning any heed. he went to talk to jojen himself, and afterward stopped bathing and refused to go near the well. finally he stank so bad that six of the other guards threw him into a tub of scalding water and scrubbed him raw while he screamed that they were going to drown him like the frogboy had said. thereafter he scowled whenever he saw bran or jojen about the castle, and muttered under his breath. it was a few days after alebelly' s bath that ser rodrik returned to winterfell with his prisoner, a fleshy young man with fat moist lips and long hair who smelled like a privy, even worse than alebelly had. reek, he's called, hayhead said when bran asked who it was. i never heard his true name. he served the bastard of bolton and helped him murder lady hornwood, they say. the bastard himself was dead, bran learned that evening over supper. ser rodrik's men had caught him on hornwood land doing something horrible (bran wasn't quite sure what, but it seemed to be something you did without your clothes) and shot him down with arrows as he tried to ride away. they came too late for poor lady hornwood, though. after their wedding, the bastard had locked her in a tower and neglected to feed her. bran had heard men saying that when ser rodrik had smashed down the door he found her with her mouth all bloody and her fingers chewed off. the monster has tied us a thorny knot, the old knight told maester luwin. like it or no, lady hornwood was his wife. he made her say the vows before both septon and heart tree, and bedded her that very night before witnesses. she signed a will naming him as heir and fixed her seal to it. vows made at sword point are not valid, the maester argued. roose bolton may not agree. not with land at issue. ser rodrik looked unhappy. would that i could take this serving man's head off as well, he's as bad as his master. but i fear i must keep him alive until robb returns from his wars. he is the only witness to the worst of the bastard's crimes. perhaps when lord bolton hears his tale, he will abandon his claim, but meantime we have manderly knights and dreadfort men killing one another in hornwood forests, and i lack the strength to stop them. the old knight turned in his seat and gave bran a stern look. and what have you been about while i've been away, my lord prince? commanding our guardsmen not to wash? do you want them smelling like this reek, is that it? the sea is coming here, bran said. jojen saw it in a green dream.'mebelly is going to drown. maester luwin tugged at his chain collar. the reed boy believes he sees the future in his dreams, ser rodrik. i've spoken to bran about the uncertainty of such prophecies, but if truth be told, there is trouble along the stony shore. raiders in longships, plundering fishing villages. raping and burning. leobald tallhart has sent his nephew benfred to deal with them, but i expect they'll take to their ships and flee at the first sight of armed men. aye, and strike somewhere else. the others take all such cowards. they would never dare, no more than the bastard of bolton, if our main strength were not a thousand leagues south. ser rodrik looked at bran. what else did the lad tell you? he said the water would flow over our walls. he saw alebelly drowned, and mikken and septon chayle too. ser rodrik frowned. well, should it happen that i need to ride against these raiders myself, i shan't take alebelly, then. he didn't see me drowned, did he? no? good. it heartened bran to hear that. maybe they won't drown, then, he thought. if they stay away from the sea. meera thought so too, later that night when she and jojen met bran in his room to play a three- sided game of tiles, but her brother shook his head. the things i see in green dreams can't be changed. that made his sister angry. why would the gods send a warning if we can't heed it and change what's to come? i don't know, jojen said sadly. if you were alebelly, you'd probably jump into the well to have done with it! he should fight, and bran should too. me? bran felt suddenly afraid. what should i fight? am i going to drown too? meera looked at him guiltily. i shouldn't have said. he could tell that she was hiding something. did you see me in a green dream? he asked jojen nervously. was i drowned? not drowned. jojen spoke as if every word pained him. i dreamed of the man who came today, the one they call reek. you and your brother lay dead at his feet, and he was skinning off your faces with a long red blade. meera rose to her feet. if i went to the dungeon, i could drive a spear right through his heart. how could he murder bran if he was dead? the gaolers will stop you, joien said. the guards. and if you tell them why you want him dead, they'll never believe. i have guards too, bran reminded them. alebelly and poxy tym and hayhead and the rest. jojen's mossy eyes were full of pity. they won't be able to stop him, bran. i couldn't see why, but i saw the end of it. i saw you and rickon in your crypts, down in the dark with all the dead kings and their stone wolves. no, bran thought. no. if i went away... to greywater, or to the crow, someplace far where they couldn't find me... it will not matter. the dream was green, bran, and the green dreams do not lie. the sound was the faintest of clinks, a scraping of steel over stone. he lifted his head from his paws, listening, sniffing at the night. the evening's rain had woken a hundred sleeping smells and made them ripe and strong again. grass and thorns, blackberries broken on the ground, mud, worms, rotting leaves, a rat creeping through the bush. he caught the shaggy black scent of his brother's coat and the sharp coppery tang of blood from the squirrel he'd killed. other squirrels moved through the branches above, smelling of wet fur and fear, their little claws scratching at the bark. the noise had sounded something like that. and he heard it again, clink and scrape. it brought him to his feet. his ears pricked and his tail rose. he howled, a long deep shivery cry, a howl to wake the sleepers, but the piles of man-rock were dark and dead. a still wet night, a night to drive men into their holes. the rain had stopped, but the men still hid from the damp, huddled by the fires in their caves of piled stone. his brother came sliding through the trees, moving almost as quiet as another brother he remembered dimly from long ago, the white one with the eyes of blood. this brother's eyes were pools of shadow, but the fur on the back of his neck was bristling. he had heard the sounds as well, and known they meant danger. this time the clink and scrape were followed by a slithering and the soft swift patter of skinfeet on stone. the wind brought the faintest whiff of a man-smell he did not know. stranger. danger. death. he ran toward the sound, his brother racing beside him. the stone dens rose before them, walls slick and wet. he bared his teeth, but the man-rock took no notice. a gate loomed up, a black iron snake coiled tight about bar and post. when he crashed against it, the gate shuddered and the snake clanked and slithered and held. through the bars he could look down the long stone burrow that ran between the walls to the stony field beyond, but there was no way through. he could force his muzzle between the bars, but no more. many a time his brother had tried to crack the black bones of the gate between his teeth, but they would not break. they had tried to dig under, but there were great flat stones beneath, half-covered by earth and blown leaves. snarling, he paced back and forth in front of the gate, then threw himself at it once more. it moved a little and slammed him back. locked, something whispered. chained. the voice he did not hear, the scent without a smell. the other ways were closed as well. where doors opened in the walls of man-rock, the wood was thick and strong. there was no way out. there is, the whisper came, and it seemed as if he could see the shadow of a great tree covered in needles, slanting up out of the black earth to ten times the height of a man. yet when he looked about, it was not there. the other side of the godswood, the sentinel, hurry, hurry... through the gloom of night came a muffled shout, cut short. swiftly, swiftly, he whirled and bounded back into the trees, wet leaves rustling beneath his paws, branches whipping at him as he rushed past. he could hear his brother following close. they plunged under the heart tree and around the cold pool, through the blackberry bushes, under a tangle of oaks and ash and hawthorn scrub, to the far side of the wood... and there it was, the shadow he'd glimpsed without seeing, the slanting tree pointing at the rooftops. sentinel, came the thought. he remembered how it was to climb it then. the needles everywhere, scratching at his bare face and falling down the back of his neck, the sticky sap on his hands, the sharp piney smell of it. it was an easy tree for a boy to climb, leaning as it did, crooked, the branches so close together they almost made a ladder, slanting right up to the roof. growling, he sniffed around the base of the tree, lifted a leg and marked it with a stream of urine. a low branch brushed his face, and he snapped at it, twisting and pulling until the wood cracked and tore. his mouth was full of needles and the bitter taste of the sap. he shook his head and snarled. his brother sat back on his haunches and lifted his voice in a ululating howl, his song black with mourning. the way was no way. they were not squirrels, nor the cubs of men, they could not wriggle up the trunks of trees, clinging with soft pink paws and clumsy feet. they were runners, hunters, prowlers. off across the night, beyond the stone that hemmed them close, the dogs woke and began to bark. one and then another and then all of them, a great clamor. they smelled it too; the scent of foes and fear. a desperate fury filled him, hot as hunger. he sprang away from the wall loped off beneath the trees, the shadows of branch and leaf dappling his grey fur... and then he turned and raced back in a rush. his feet flew kicking up wet leaves and pine needles, and for a little time he was a hunter and an antlered stag was fleeing before him and he could see it, smell it, and he ran full out in pursuit. the smell of fear made his heart thunder and slaver ran from his jaws, and he reached the falling tree in stride and threw himself up the trunk, claws scrabbling at the bark for purchase. upward he bounded, up, two bounds, three, hardly slowing, until he was among the lower limbs. branches tangled his feet and whipped at his eyes, grey-green needles scattered as he shouldered through them, snapping. he had to slow. something snagged at his foot and he wrenched it free, snarling. the trunk narrowed under him, the slope steeper, almost straight up, and wet. the bark tore like skin when he tried to claw at it. he was a third of the way up, halfway, more, the roof was almost within reach... and then he put down a foot and felt it slip off the curve of wet wood, and suddenly he was sliding, stumbling. he yowled in fear and fury, falling, falling, and twisted around while the ground rushed up to break him... and then bran was back abed in his lonely tower room, tangled in his blankets, his breath coming hard. summer, he cried aloud. summer. his shoulder seemed to ache, as if he had fallen on it, but he knew it was only the ghost of what the wolf was feeling. jojen told it true. i am a beastling. outside he could hear the faint barking of dogs. the sea has come. it's flowing over the walls, just as jojen saw bran grabbed the bar overhead and pulled himself up, shouting for help. no one came, and after a moment he remembered that no one would. they had taken the guard off his door. ser rodrik had needed every man of fighting age he could lay his hands on, so winterfell had been left with only a token garrison. the rest had left eight days past, six hundred men from winterfell and the nearest holdfasts. cley cerwyn was bringing three hundred more to join them on the march, and maester luwin had sent ravens before them, summoning levies from white harbor and the barrowlands and even the deep places inside the wolfswood. torrhen's square was under attack by some monstrous war chief named dagmer cleftjaw. old nan said he couldn't be killed, that once a foe had cut his head in two with an axe, but dagmer was so fierce he'd just pushed the two halves back together and held them until they healed up. could dagmer have won? torrhen's square was many days from winterfell, yet still... bran pulled himself from the bed, moving bar to bar until he reached the windows. his fingers fumbled a little as he swung back the shutters. the yard was empty, and all the windows he could see were black. winterfell slept. hodor! he shouted down, as loud as he could. hodor would be asleep above the stables, but maybe if he yelled loud enough he'd hear, or somebody would. hodor, come fast! osha! meera, jojen, anyone! bran cupped his hands around his mouth. hooooodooooor! but when the door crashed open behind him, the man who stepped through was no one bran knew. he wore a leather jerkin sewn with overlapping iron disks, and carried a dirk in one hand and an axe strapped to his back. what do you want? bran demanded, afraid. this is my room. you get out of here. theon greyjoy followed him into the bedchamber. we're not here to harm you, bran. theon? bran felt dizzy with relief. did robb send you? is he here too?  robb's far away. he can't help you now. help me? he was confused. don't scare me, theon. i'm prince theon now. we're both princes, bran. who would have dreamed it? but i've taken your castle, my prince. winterfell? bran shook his head. no, you couldn't. leave us, werlag. the man with the dirk withdrew. theon seated himself on the bed. i sent four men over the walls with grappling claws and ropes, and they opened a postern gate for the rest of us. my men are dealing with yours even now. i promise you, winterfell is mine. bran did not understand. but you're father's ward. and now you and your brother are my wards. as soon as the fighting's done, my men will be bringing the rest of your people together in the great hall. you and i are going to speak to them. you'll tell them how you've yielded winterfell to me, and command them to serve and obey their new lord as they did the old. i won't, said bran. we'll fight you and throw you out. i never yielded, you can't make me say i did. this is no game, bran, so don't play the boy with me, i won't stand for it. the castle is mine, but these people are still yours. if the prince would keep them safe, he'd best do as he's told. he rose and went to the door. someone will come dress you and carry you to the great hall. think carefully on what you want to say. the waiting made bran feel even more helpless than before. he sat in the window seat, staring out at dark towers and walls black as shadow. once he thought he heard shouting beyond the guards hall, and something that might have been the clash of swords, but he did not have summer's ears to hear, nor his nose to smell. awake, i am still broken, but when i sleep, when i'm summer, i can run and fight and hear and smell. he had expected that hodor would come for him, or maybe one of the serving girls, but when the door next opened it was maester luwin, carrying a candle. bran, he said, you... know what has happened? you have been told? the skin was broken above his left eye, and blood ran down that side of his face. theon came. he said winterfell was his now. the maester set down the candle and wiped the blood off his cheek. they swam the moat. climbed the walls with hook and rope. came over wet and dripping, steel in hand. he sat on the chair by the door, as fresh blood flowed. alebelly was on the gate, they surprised him in the turret and killed him. hayhead's wounded as well. i had time to send off two ravens before they burst in. the bird to white harbor got away, but they brought down the other with an arrow. the maester stared at the rushes. ser rodrik took too many of our men, but i am to blame as much as he is. i never saw this danger, i never... jojen saw it, bran thought. you better help me dress. yes, that's so. in the heavy ironbound chest at the foot of bran's bed the maester found smallclothes, breeches, and tunic. you are the stark in winterfell, and robb's heir. you must look princely. together they garbed him as befit a lord. theon wants me to yield the castle, bran said as the maester was fastening the cloak with his favorite wolf s-head clasp of silver and jet. there is no shame in that. a lord must protect his smallfolk. cruel places breed cruel peoples, bran, remember that as you deal with these ironmen. your lord father did what he could to gentle theon, but i fear it was too little and too late. the ironman who came for them was a squat thick-bodied man with a coal-black beard that covered half his chest. he bore the boy easily enough, though he looked none too happy with the task. rickon's bedchamber was a half turn down the steps. the four-year-old was cranky at being woken. i want mother, he said. i want her. and shaggydog too. your mother is far away, my prince. maester luwin pulled a bedrobe over the child's head. but i'm here, and bran. he took rickon by the hand and led him out. below, they came on meera and jojen being herded from their room by a bald man whose spear was three feet taller than he was. when jojen looked at bran, his eyes were green pools full of sorrow. other ironmen had rousted the freys. your brother's lost his kingdom, little walder told bran. you're no prince now, just a hostage. so are you, jojen said, and me, and all of us. no one was talking to you, frogeater. one of the ironmen went before them carrying a torch, but the rain had started again and soon drowned it out. as they hurried across the yard they could hear the direwolves howling in the godswood. i hope summer wasn't hurt falling from the tree. theon greyjoy was seated in the high seat of the starks. he had taken off his cloak. over a shirt of fine mail he wore a black surcoat emblazoned with the golden kraken of his house. his hands rested on the wolves' heads carved at the ends of the wide stone arms. theon's sitting in robb's chair, rickon said. hush, rickon. bran could feel the menace around them, but his brother was too young. a few torches had been lit, and a fire kindled in the great hearth, but most of the hall remained in darkness. there was no place to sit with the benches stacked against the walls, so the castle folk stood in small groups, not daring to speak. he saw old nan, her toothless mouth opening and closing. hayhead was carried in between two of the other guards, a bloodstained bandage wrapped about his bare chest. poxy tym wept inconsolably, and beth cassel cried with fear. what have we here? theon asked of the reeds and freys. these are lady catelyn's wards, both named walder frey, maester luwin explained. and this is jojen reed and his sister meera, son and daughter to howland reed of greywater watch, who came to renew their oaths of fealty to winterfell. some might call that ill-timed, said theon, though not for me. here you are and here you'll stay. he vacated the high seat. bring the prince here, lorren. the black-bearded man dumped bran onto the stone as if he were a sack of oats. people were still being driven into the great hall, prodded along with shouts and the butts of the spears. gage and osha arrived from the kitchens, spotted with flour from making the morning bread. mikken they dragged in cursing. farlen entered limping, struggling to support palla. her dress had been ripped in two; she held it up with a clenched fist and walked as if every step were agony. septon chayle rushed to lend a hand, but one of the ironmen knocked him to the floor. the last man marched through the doors was the prisoner reek, whose stench preceded him, ripe and pungent. bran felt his stomach twist at the smell of him. we found this one locked in a tower cell, announced his escort, a beardless youth with ginger-colored hair and sodden clothing, doubtless one of those who'd swum the moat. he says they call him reek. can't think why, theon said, smiling. do you always smell so bad, or did you just finish fucking a pig? haven't fucked no one since they took me, m'lord. heke's me true name. i was in service to the bastard o' the dreadfort till the starks give him an arrow in the back for a wedding gift. theon found that amusing. who did he marry? the widow o' hornwood, m'lord.  that crone? was he blind? she has teats like empty wineskins, dry and withered. it wasn't her teats he wed her for, m'lord. the ironmen slammed shut the tall doors at the foot of the hall. from the high seat, bran could see about twenty of them. he probably left some guards on the gates and the armory. even so, there couldn't be more than thirty. theon raised his hands for quiet. you all know me- aye, we know you for a sack of steaming dung! shouted mikken, before the bald man drove the butt of his spear into his gut, then smashed him across the face with the shaft. the smith stumbled to his knees and spat out a tooth. mikken, you be silent. bran tried to sound stern and lordly, the way robb did when he made a command, but his voice betrayed him and the words came out in a shrill squeak. listen to your little lordling, mikken, said theon. he has more sense than you do. a good lord protects his people, he reminded himself. i've yielded winterfell to theon. louder, bran. and call me prince. he raised his voice. i have yielded winterfell to prince theon. all of you should do as he commands you. damned if i will! bellowed mikken. theon ignored the outburst. my father has donned the ancient crown of salt and rock, and declared himself king of the iron islands. he claims the north as well, by right of conquest. you are all his subjects. bugger that. mikken wiped the blood from his mouth. i serve the starks, not some treasonous squid of-aah. the butt of the spear smashed him face first into the stone floor. smiths have strong arms and weak heads, observed theon. but if the rest of you serve me as loyally as you served ned stark, you'll find me as generous a lord as you could want. on his hands and knees, mikken spat blood. please don't, bran wished at him, but the blacksmith shouted, if you think you can hold the north with this sorry lot o'- the bald man drove the point of his spear into the back of mikken's neck. steel slid through flesh and came out his throat in a welter of blood. a woman screamed, and meera wrapped her arms around rickon. it's blood he drowned on, bran thought numbly. his own blood. who else has something to say? asked theon greyjoy. hodor hodor hodor hodor, shouted hodor, eyes wide. someone kindly shut that halfwit up. two ironmen began to beat hodor with the butts of their spears. the stableboy dropped to the floor, trying to shield himself with his hands. i will be as good a lord to you as eddard stark ever was. theon raised his voice to be heard above the smack of wood on flesh. betray me, though, and you'll wish you hadn't. and don't think the men you see here are the whole of my power. torrhen's square and deepwood motte will soon be ours as well, and my uncle is sailing up the saltspear to seize moat cailin. if robb stark can stave off the lannisters, he may reign as king of the trident hereafter, but house greyjoy holds the north now. stark's lords will fight you, the man reek called out. that bloated pig at white harbor for one, and them umbers and karstarks too. you'll need men. free me and i'm yours. theon weighed him a moment. you're cleverer than you smell, but i could not suffer that stench. well, said reek, i could wash some. if i was free. a man of rare good sense. theon smiled. bend the knee. one of the ironmen handed reek a sword, and he laid it at theon' s feet and swore obedience to house greyjoy and king balon. bran could not look. the green dream was coming true. mtord greyjoy! osha stepped past mikken's body. i was brought here captive too. you were there the day i was taken. i thought you were a friend, bran thought, hurt. i need fighters, theon declared, not kitchen sluts. it was robb stark put me in the kitchens. for the best part of a year, i've been left to scour kettles, scrape grease, and warm the straw for this one. she threw a look at gage. i've had a bellyful of it. put a spear in my hand again. i got a spear for you right here, said the bald man who'd killed mikken. he grabbed his crotch, grinning. osha drove her bony knee up between his legs. you keep that soft pink thing. she wrested the spear from him and used the butt to knock him off his feet. i'll have me the wood and iron. the bald man writhed on the floor while the other reavers sent up gales of laughter. theon laughed with the rest. you'll do, he said. keep the spear; stygg can find another. now bend the knee and swear. when no one else rushed forward to pledge service, they were dismissed with a warning to do their work and make no trouble. hodor was given the task of bearing bran back to his bed. his face was all ugly from the beating, his nose swollen and one eye closed. hodor, he sobbed between cracked lips as he lifted bran in huge strong arms and bloody hands and carried him back out into the rain. the ashes fell like a soft grey snow. he padded over dry needles and brown leaves, to the edge of the wood where the pines grew thin. beyond the open fields he could see the great piles of man-rock stark against the swirling flames. the wind blew hot and rich with the smell of blood and burnt meat, so strong he began to slaver. yet as one smell drew them onward, others warned them back. he sniffed at the drifting smoke. men, many men, many horses, and fire, fire, fire. no smell was more dangerous, not even the hard cold smell of iron, the stuff of mane laws and hardskin. the smoke and ash clouded his eyes, and in the sky he saw a great winged snake whose roar was a river of flame. he bared his teeth, but then the snake was gone. behind the cliffs tall fires were eating up the stars. all through the night the fires crackled, and once there was a great roar and a crash that made the earth jump under his feet. dogs barked and whined and horses screamed in terror. howls shuddered through the night; the howls of the man-pack, wails of fear and wild shouts, laughter and screams. no beast was as noisy as man. he pricked up his ears and listened, and his brother growled at every sound. they prowled under the trees as a piney wind blew ashes and embers through the sky. in time the flames began to dwindle, and then they were gone. the sun rose grey and smoky that morning. only then did he leave the trees, stalking slow across the fields. his brother ran with him, drawn to the smell of blood and death. they padded silent through the dens the men had built of wood and grass and mud. many and more were burned and many and more were collapsed; others stood as they had before. yet nowhere did they see or scent a living man. crows blanketed the bodies and leapt into the air screeching when his brother and he came near. the wild dogs slunk away before them. beneath the great grey cliffs a horse was dying noisily, struggling to rise on a broken leg and screaming when he fell. his brother circled round him, then tore out his throat while the horse kicked feebly and rolled his eyes. when he approached the carcass his brother snapped at him and laid back his ears, and he cuffed him with a forepaw and bit his leg. they fought amidst the grass and dirt and falling ashes beside the dead horse, until his brother rolled on his back in submission, tail tucked low. one more bite at his upturned throat; then he fed, and let his brother feed, and licked the blood off his black fur. the dark place was pulling at him by then, the house of whispers where all men were blind. he could feel its cold fingers on him. the stony smell of it was a whisper up the nose. he struggled against the pull. he did not like the darkness. he was wolf. he was hunter and stalker and slayer, and he belonged with his brothers and sisters in the deep woods, running free beneath a starry sky. he sat on his haunches, raised his head, and howled. i will not go, he cried. i am wolf, i will not go. yet even so the darkness thickened, until it covered his eyes and filled his nose and stopped his ears, so he could not see or smell or hear or run, and the grey cliffs were gone and the dead horse was gone and his brother was gone and all was black and still and black and cold and black and dead and black... bran, a voice was whispering softly. bran, come back. come back now, bran. bran... he closed his third eye and opened the other two, the old two, the blind two. in the dark place all men were blind. but someone was holding him. he could feel arms around him, the warmth of a body snuggled close. he could hear hodor singing hodor, hodor, hodor, quietly to himself. bran? it was meera's voice. you were thrashing, making terrible noises. what did you see? winterfell. his tongue felt strange and thick in his mouth. one day when i come back i won't know how to talk anymore. it was winterfell. it was all on fire. there were horse smells, and steel, and blood. they killed everyone, meera. he felt her hand on his face, stroking back his hair. you're all sweaty, she said. do you need a drink? a drink, he agreed. she held a skin to his lips, and bran swallowed so fast the water ran out of the corner of his mouth. he was always weak and thirsty when he came back. and hungry too. he remembered the dying horse, the taste of blood in his mouth, the smell of burnt flesh in the morning air. how long? three days, said jojen. the boy had come up softfoot, or perhaps he had been there all along; in this blind black world, bran could not have said. we were afraid for you. i was with summer, bran said. too long. you'll starve yourself. meera dribbled a little water down your throat, and we smeared honey on your mouth, but it is not enough. i ate, said bran. we ran down an elk and had to drive off a treecat that tried to steal him. the cat had been tan-and-brown, only half the size of the direwolves, but fierce. he remembered the musky smell of him, and the way he had snarled down at them from the limb of the oak. the wolf ate, jojen said. not you. take care, bran. remember who you are. he remembered who he was all too well; bran the boy, bran the broken. better bran the beastling. was it any wonder he would sooner dream his summer dreams, his wolf dreams? here in the chill damp darkness of the tomb his third eye had finally opened. he could reach summer whenever he wanted, and once he had even touched ghost and talked to jon. though maybe he had only dreamed that. he could not understand why joien was always trying to pull him back now. bran used the strength of his arms to squirm to a sitting position. i have to tell osha what i saw. is she here? where did she go? the wildling woman herself gave answer. nowhere, m'lord. i've had my fill o' blundering in the black. he heard the scrape of a heel on stone, turned his head toward the sound, but saw nothing. he thought he could smell her, but he wasn't sure. all of them stank alike, and he did not have summer's nose to tell one from the other. last night i pissed on a king's foot, osha went on. might be it was morning, who can say? i was sleeping, but now i'm not. they all slept a lot, not only bran. there was nothing else to do, sleep and eat and sleep again, and sometimes talk a little... but not too much, and only in whispers, just to be safe. osha might have liked it better if they had never talked at all, but there was no way to quiet rickon, or to stop hodor from muttering, hodor, hodor, hodor, endlessly to himself. osha, bran said, i saw winterfell burning. off to his left, he could hear the soft sound of rickon' s breathing. a dream, said osha. a wolf dream, said bran. i smelled it too. nothing smells like fire, or blood. whose blood? men, horses, dogs, everyone. we have to go see. this scrawny skin of mine's the only one i got, said osha. that squid prince catches hold o' me, they'll strip it off my back with a whip. meera's hand found bran's in the darkness and gave his fingers a squeeze. i'll go if you're afraid. bran heard fingers fumbling at leather, followed by the sound of steel on flint. then again. a spark flew, caught. osha blew softly. a long pale flame awoke, stretching upward like a girl on her toes. osha's face floated above it. she touched the flame with the head of a torch. bran had to squint as the pitch began to burn, filling the world with orange glare. the light woke rickon, who sat up yawning. when the shadows moved, it looked for an instant as if the dead were rising as well. lyanna and brandon, lord rickard stark their father, lord edwyle his father, lord willam and his brother artos the implacable, lord donnor and lord beron and lord rodwell, one-eyed lord jonnel, lord barth and lord brandon and lord cregan who had fought the dragonknight. on their stone chairs they sat with stone wolves at their feet. this was where they came when the warmth had seeped out of their bodies; this was the dark hall of the dead, where the living feared to tread. and in the mouth of the empty tomb that waited for lord eddard stark, beneath his stately granite likeness, the six fugitives huddled round their little cache of bread and water and dried meat. little enough left, osha muttered as she blinked down on their stores. i'd need to go up soon to steal food in any case, or we'd be down to eating hodor.  hodor, hodor said, grinning at her. is it day or night up there? osha wondered. i've lost all count o' such. day, bran told her, but it's dark from all the smoke. mtord is certain? never moving his broken body, he reached out all the same, and for an instant he was seeing double. there stood osha holding the torch, and meera and jojen and hodor, and the double row of tall granite pillars and long dead lords behind them stretching away into darkness... but there was winterfell as well, grey with drifting smoke, the massive oakand-iron gates charred and askew, the drawbridge down in a tangle of broken chains and missing planks. bodies floated in the moat, islands for the crows. certain, he declared. osha chewed on that a moment. i'll risk a look then. i want the lot o' you close behind. meera, get bran's basket. are we going home? rickon asked excitedly. i want my horse. and i want applecakes and butter and honey, and shaggy. are we going where shaggydog is? yes, bran promised, but you have to be quiet. meera strapped the wicker basket to hodor's back and helped lift bran into it, easing his useless legs through the holes. he had a queer flutter in his belly. he knew what awaited them above, but that did not make it any less fearful. as they set off, he turned to give his father one last look, and it seemed to bran that there was a sadness in lord eddard's eyes, as if he did not want them to go. we have to, he thought. it's time. osha carried her long oaken spear in one hand and the torch in the other. a naked sword hung down her back, one of the last to bear mikken's mark. he had forged it for lord eddard's tomb, to keep his ghost at rest. but with mikken slain and the ironmen guarding the armory, good steel had been hard to resist, even if it meant grave-robbing. meera had claimed lord rickard's blade, though she complained that it was too heavy. brandon took his namesake's, the sword made for the uncle he had never known. he knew he would not be much use in a fight, but even so the blade felt good in his hand. but it was only a game, and bran knew it. their footsteps echoed through the cavernous crypts. the shadows behind them swallowed his father as the shadows ahead retreated to unveil other statues; no mere lords, these, but the old kings in the north. on their brows they wore stone crowns. torrhen stark, the king who knelt. edwyn the spring king. theon stark, the hungry wolf. brandon the burner and brandon the shipwright. jorah and jonos, brandon the bad, walton the moon king, edderion the bridegroom, eyron, benjen the sweet and benjen the bitter, king edrick snowbeard. their faces were stern and strong, and some of them had done terrible things, but they were starks every one, and bran knew all their tales. he had never feared the crypts; they were part of his home and who he was, and he had always known that one day he would lie here too. but now he was not so certain. if i go up, will i ever come back down? where will i go when i die? wait, osha said when they reached the twisting stone stairs that led up to the surface, and down to the deeper levels where kings more ancient still sat their dark thrones. she handed meera the torch. i'll grope my way up. for a time they could hear the sound of her footfalls, but they grew softer and softer until they faded away entirely. hodor, said hodor nervously. bran had told himself a hundred times how much he hated hiding down here in the dark, how much he wanted to see the sun again, to ride his horse through wind and rain. but now that the moment was upon him, he was afraid. he'd felt safe in the darkness; when you could not even find your own hand in front of your face, it was easy to believe that no enemies could ever find you either. and the stone lords had given him courage. even when he could not see them, he had known they were there. it seemed a long while before they heard anything again. bran had begun to fear that something had happened to osha. his brother was squirming restlessly. i want to go home! he said loudly. hodor bobbed his head and said, hodor. then they heard the footsteps again, growing louder, and after a few minutes osba emerged into the light, looking grim. something is blocking the door. i can't move it. hodor can move anything, said bran. osha gave the huge stableboy an appraising look. might be he can. come on, then. the steps were narrow, so they had to climb in single file. osha led. behind came hodor, with bran crouched low on his back so his head wouldn't hit the ceiling. meera followed with the torch, and jojen brought up the rear, leading rickon by the hand. around and around they went, and up and up. bran thought he could smell smoke now, but perhaps that was only the torch. the door to the crypts was made of ironwood. it was old and heavy, and lay at a slant to the ground. only one person could approach it at a time. osha tried once more when she reached it, but bran could see that it was not budging. let hodor try. they had to pull bran from his basket first, so he would not get squished. meera squatted beside him on the steps, one arm thrown protectively across his shoulders, as osha and hodor traded places. open the door, hodor, bran said. the huge stableboy put both hands flat on the door, pushed, and grunted. hodor? he slammed a fist against the wood, and it did not so much as jump. hodor. use your back, urged bran. and your legs. turning, hodor put his back to the wood and shoved. again. again. hodor! he put one foot on a higher step so he was bent under the slant of the door and tried to rise. this time the wood groaned and creaked. hodor! the other foot came up a step, and hodor spread his legs apart, braced, and straightened. his face turned red, and bran could see cords in his neck bulging as he strained against the weight above him. hodor hodor hodor hodor hodor hodor! from above came a dull rumble. then suddenly the door jerked upward and a shaft of daylight fell across bran's face, blinding him for a moment. another shove brought the sound of shifting stone, and then the way was open. osha poked her spear through and slid out after it, and rickon squirmed through meera's legs to follow. hodor shoved the door open all the way and stepped to the surface. the reeds had to carry bran up the last few steps. the sky was a pale grey, and smoke eddied all around them. they stood in the shadow of the first keep, or what remained of it. one whole side of the building had torn loose and fallen away. stone and shattered gargoyles lay strewn across the yard. they fell just where i did, bran thought when he saw them. some of the gargoyles had broken into so many pieces it made him wonder how he was alive at all. nearby some crows were pecking at a body crushed beneath the tumbled stone, but he lay facedown and bran could not say who he was. the first keep had not been used for many hundreds of years, but now it was more of a shell than ever. the floors had burned inside it, and all the beams. where the wall had fallen away, they could see right into the rooms, even into the privy. yet behind, the broken tower still stood, no more burned than before. jojen reed was coughing from the smoke. take me home! rickon demanded. i want to be home! hodor stomped in a circle. hodor, he whimpered in a small voice. they stood huddled together with ruin and death all around them. we made noise enough to wake a dragon, osha said, but there's no one come. the castle's dead and burned, just as bran dreamed, but we had best- she broke off suddenly at a noise behind them, and whirled with her spear at the ready. two lean dark shapes emerged from behind the broken tower, padding slowly through the rubble. rickon gave a happy shout of shaggy! and the black direwolf came bounding toward him. summer advanced more slowly, rubbed his head up against bran's arm, and licked his face. we should go, said jojen. so much death will bring other wolves besides summer and shaggydog, and not all on four feet. aye, soon enough, osha agreed, but we need food, and there may be some survived this, stay together. meera, keep your shield up and guard our backs. it took the rest of the morning to make a slow circuit of the castle. the great granite walls remained, blackened here and there by fire but otherwise untouched. but within, all was death and destruction. the doors of the great hall were charred and smoldering, and inside the rafters had given way and the whole roof had crashed down onto the floor. the green and yellow panes of the glass gardens were all in shards, the trees and fruits and flowers torn up or left exposed to die. of the stables, made of wood and thatch, nothing remained but ashes, embers, and dead horses. bran thought of his dancer, and wanted to weep. there was a shallow steaming lake beneath the library tower, and hot water gushing from a crack in its side. the bridge between the bell tower and the rookery had collapsed into the yard below, and maester luwin's turret was gone. they saw a dull red glow shining up through the narrow cellar windows beneath the great keep, and a second fire still burning in one of the storehouses. osha called softly through the blowing smoke as they went, but no one answered. they saw one dog worrying at a corpse, but he ran when he caught the scents of the direwolves; the rest had been slain in the kennels. the maester's ravens were paying court to some of the corpses, while the crows from the broken tower attended others. bran recognized poxy tym, even though someone had taken an axe to his face. one charred corpse, outside the ashen shell of mother's sept, sat with his arms drawn up and his hands balled into hard black fists, as if to punch anyone who dared approach him. if the gods are good, osha said in a low angry voice, the others will take them that did this work. it was theon, bran said blackly. no. look. she pointed across the yard with her spear. that's one of his ironmen. and there. and that's greyjoy's warhorse, see? the black one with the arrows in him. she moved among the dead, frowning. and here's black lorren. he had been hacked and cut so badly that his beard looked a reddish-brown now. took a few with him, he did. osha turned over one of the other corpses with her foot. there's a badge. a little man, all red. the flayed man of the dreadfort, said bran. summer howled, and darted away. the godswood. meera reed ran after the direwolf, her shield and frog spear to hand. the rest of them trailed after, threading their way through smoke and fallen stones. the air was sweeter under the trees. a few pines along the edge of the wood had been scorched, but deeper in the damp soil and green wood had defeated the flames. there is a power in living wood, said jojen reed, almost as if he knew what bran was thinking, a power strong as fire. on the edge of the black pool, beneath the shelter of the heart tree, maester luwin lay on his belly in the dirt. a trail of blood twisted back through damp leaves where he had crawled. summer stood over him, and bran thought he was dead at first, but when meera touched his throat, the maester moaned. hodor? hodor said mournfully. hodor? gently, they eased luwin onto his back. he had grey eyes and grey hair, and once his robes had been grey as well, but they were darker now where the blood had soaked through. bran, he said softly when he saw him sitting tall on hodor's back. and rickon too. he smiled. the gods are good. i knew... knew? said bran uncertainly. the legs, i could tell... the clothes fit, but the muscles in his legs... poor lad... he coughed, and blood came up from inside him. you vanished... in the woods... how, though?  we never went, said bran. well, only to the edge, and then doubled back. i sent the wolves on to make a trail, but we hid in father's tomb. the crypts. luwin chuckled, a froth of blood on his lips. when the maester tried to move, he gave a sharp gasp of pain. tears filled bran's eyes. when a man was hurt you took him to the maester, but what could you do when your maester was hurt? we'll need to make a litter to carry him, said osha. no use, said luwin. i'm dying, woman. you can't, said rickon angrily. no you can't. beside him, shaggydog bared his teeth and growled. the maester smiled. hush now, child, i'm much older than you. i can... die as i please. hodor, down, said bran. hodor went to his knees beside the maester. listen, luwin said to osha, the princes... robb's heirs. not... not together... do you hear? the wildling woman leaned on her spear. aye. safer apart. but where to take them? i'd thought, might be these cerwyns... maester luwin shook his head, though it was plain to see what the effort cost him. cerwyn boy's dead. ser rodrik, leobald tallhart, lady hornwood... all slain. deepwood fallen, moat cailin, soon torrhen's square. ironmen on the stony shore. and east, the bastard of bolton. then where? asked osha. white harbor... the umbers... i do not know... war everywhere... each man against his neighbor, and winter coming... such folly, such black mad folly... maester luwin reached up and grasped bran's forearm, his fingers closing with a desperate strength. you must be strong now. strong. i will be, bran said, though it was hard. ser rodrik killed and maester luwin, everyone, everyone... good, the maester said. a good boy. your... your father's son, bran. now go. osha gazed up at the weirwood, at the red face carved in the pale trunk. and leave you for the gods? i beg... the maester swallowed a... a drink of water, and... another boon. if you would... aye. she turned to meera. take the boys. jojen and meera led rickon out between them. hodor followed. low branches whipped at bran's face as they pushed between the trees, and the leaves brushed away his tears. osha joined them in the yard a few moments later. she said no word of maester luwin. hodor must stay with bran, to be his legs, the wildling woman said briskly. i will take rickon with me. we'll go with bran, said jojen reed. aye, i thought you might, said osha. believe i'll try the east gate, and follow the kingsroad a ways. we'll take the hunter's gate, said meera. hodor, said hodor. they stopped at the kitchens first. osha found some loaves of burned bread that were still edible, and even a cold roast fowl that she ripped in half. meera unearthed a crock of honey and a big sack of apples. outside, they made their farewells. rickon sobbed and clung to hodor's leg until osha gave him a smack with the butt end of her spear. then he followed her quick enough. shaggydog stalked after them. the last bran saw of them was the direwolf s tail as it vanished behind the broken tower. the iron portcullis that closed the hunter's gate had been warped so badly by heat it could not be raised more than a foot. they had to squeeze beneath its spikes, one by one. will we go to your lord father? bran asked as they crossed the drawbridge between the walls. to greywater watch? meera looked to her brother for the answer. our road is north, jojen announced. at the edge of the wolfswood, bran turned in his basket for one last glimpse of the castle that had been his life. wisps of smoke still rose into the grey sky, but no more than might have risen from winterfell's chimneys on a cold autumn afternoon. soot stains marked some of the arrow loops, and here and there a crack or a missing merlon could be seen in the curtain wall, but it seemed little enough from this distance. beyond, the tops of the keeps and towers still stood as they had for hundreds of years, and it was hard to tell that the castle had been sacked and burned at all. the stone is strong, bran told himself, the roots of the trees go deep, and under the ground the kings of winter sit their thrones. so long as those remained, winterfell remained. it was not dead, just broken. like me, he thought. i'm not dead either.