her son's crown was fresh from the forge, and it seemed to catelyn stark that the weight of it pressed heavy on robb's head. the ancient crown of the kings of winter had been lost three centuries ago, yielded up to aegon the conqueror when torrhen stark knelt in submission. what aegon had done with it no man could say. lord hoster's smith had done his work well, and robb's crown looked much as the other was said to have looked in the tales told of the stark kings of old; an open circlet of hammered bronze incised with the runes of the first men, surmounted by nine black iron spikes wrought in the shape of longswords. of gold and silver and gemstones, it had none; bronze and iron were the metals of winter, dark and strong to fight against the cold. as they waited in riverrun's great hall for the prisoner to be brought before them, she saw robb push back the crown so it rested upon the thick auburn mop of his hair; moments later, he moved it forward again; later he gave it a quarter turn, as if that might make it sit more easily on his brow. it is no easy thing to wear a crown, catelyn thought, watching, especially for a boy of fifteen years. when the guards brought in the captive, robb called for his sword. olyvar frey offered it up hilt first, and her son drew the blade and laid it bare across his knees, a threat plain for all to see. your grace, here is the man you asked for, announced ser robin ryger, captain of the tully household guard. kneel before the king, lannister! theon greyjoy shouted. ser robin forced the prisoner to his knees. he did not look a lion, catelyn reflected. this ser cleos frey was a son of the lady genna who was sister to lord tywin lannister, but he had none of the fabled lannister beauty, the fair hair and green eyes. instead he had inherited the stringy brown locks, weak chin, and thin face of his sire, ser emmon frey, old lord walder's second son. his eyes were pale and watery and he could not seem to stop blinking, but perhaps that was only the light. the cells below riverrun were dark and damp... and these days crowded as well. rise, ser cleos. her son's voice was not as icy as his father's would have been, but he did not sound a boy of fifteen either. war had made a man of him before his time. morning light glimmered faintly against the edge of the steel across his knees. yet it was not the sword that made ser cleos frey anxious; it was the beast. grey wind, her son had named him. a direwolf large as any elkhound, lean and smoke-dark, with eyes like molten gold. when the beast padded forward and sniffed at the captive knight, every man in that hall could smell the scent of fear. ser cleos had been taken during the battle in the whispering wood, where grey wind had ripped out the throats of half a dozen men. the knight scrambled up, edging away with such alacrity that some of the watchers laughed aloud. thank you, my lord. your grace, barked lord umber, the greatjon, ever the loudest of robb's northern bannermen... and the truest and fiercest as well, or so he insisted. he had been the first to proclaim her son king in the north, and he would brook no slight to the honor of his new-made sovereign. your grace, ser cleos corrected hastily. pardons. he is not a bold man, this one, catelyn thought. more of a frey than a lannister, in truth. his cousin the kingslayer would have been a much different matter. they would never have gotten that honorific through ser jaime lannister's perfect teeth. i brought you from your cell to carry my message to your cousin cersei lannister in king's landing. you'll travel under a peace banner, with thirty of my best men to escort you. ser cleos was visibly relieved. then i should be most glad to bring his grace's message to the queen. understand, robb said, i am not giving you your freedom. your grandfather lord walder pledged me his support and that of house frey. many of your cousins and uncles rode with us in the whispering wood, but you chose to fight beneath the lion banner. that makes you a lannister, not a frey. i want your pledge, on your honor as a knight, that after you deliver my message you'll return with the queen's reply, and resume your captivity. ser cleos answered at once. i do so vow. every man in this hall has heard you, warned catelyn's brother ser edmure tully, who spoke for riverrun and the lords of the trident in the place of their dying father. if you do not return, the whole realm will know you forsworn. i will do as i pledged, ser cleos replied stiffly. what is this message?  an offer of peace. robb stood, longsword in hand. grey wind moved to his side. the hall grew hushed. tell the queen regent that if she meets my terms, i will sheath this sword, and make an end to the war between us. in the back of the hall, catelyn glimpsed the tall, gaunt figure of lord rickard karstark shove through a rank of guards and out the door. no one else moved. robb paid the disruption no mind. olyvar, the paper, he commanded. the squire took his longsword and handed up a rolled parchment. robb unrolled it. first, the queen must release my sisters and provide them with transport by sea from king's landing to white harbor. it is to be understood that sansa's betrothal to joffrey baratheon is at an end. when i receive word from my castellan that my sisters have returned unharmed to winterfell, i will release the queen's cousins, the squire willem lannister and your brother tion frey, and give them safe escort to casterly rock or wheresoever she desires them delivered. catelyn stark wished she could read the thoughts that hid behind each face, each furrowed brow and pair of tightened lips. secondly, my lord father's bones will be returned to us, so he may rest beside his brother and sister in the crypts beneath winterfell, as he would have wished. the remains of the men of his household guard who died in his service at king's landing must also be returned. living men had gone south, and cold bones would return. ned had the truth of it, she thought. his place was at winterfell, he said as much, but would i hear him? no. go, i told him, you must be robert's hand, for the good of our house, for the sake of our children... my doing, mine, no other... third, my father's greatsword ice will be delivered to my hand, here at riverrun. she watched her brother ser edmure tully as he stood with his thumbs hooked over his swordbelt, his face as still as stone. fourth, the queen will command her father lord tywin to release those knights and lords bannermen of mine that he took captive in the battle on the green fork of the trident. once he does so, i shall release my own captives taken in the whispering wood and the battle of the camps, save jaime lannister alone, who will remain my hostage for his father's good behavior. she studied theon greyjoy's sly smile, wondering what it meant. that young man had a way of looking as though he knew some secret jest that only he was privy to; catelyn had never liked it. lastly, king joffrey and the queen regent must renounce all claims to dominion over the north. henceforth we are no part of their realm, but a free and independent kingdom, as of old. our domain shall include all the stark lands north of the neck, and in addition the lands watered by the river trident and its vassal streams, bounded by the golden tooth to the west and the mountains of the moon in the east. the king in the north! boomed greatjon umber, a ham-sized fist hammering at the air as he shouted. stark! stark! the king in the north! robb rolled up the parchment again. maester vyman has drawn a map, showing the borders we claim. you shall have a copy for the queen. lord tywin must withdraw beyond these borders, and cease his raiding, burning, and pillage. the queen regent and her son shall make no claims to taxes, incomes, nor service from my people, and shall free my lords and knights from all oaths of fealty, vows, pledges, debts, and obligations owed to the iron throne and the houses baratheon and lanister. additionally, the lannisters shall deliver ten highborn hostages, to be mutually agreed upon, as a pledge of peace. these i will treat as honored guests, according to their station. so long as the terms of this pact are abided with faithfully, i shall release two hostages every year, and return them safely to their families. robb tossed the rolled parchment at the knight's feet. there are the terms. if she meets them, i'll give her peace, if not - he whistled, and grey wind moved forward snarling - i'll give her another whispering wood. stark! the greatjon roared again, and now other voices took up the cry. stark, stark, king in the north! the direwolf threw back his head and howled. ser cleos had gone the color of curdled milk. the queen shall hear your message, my- your grace. good, robb said. ser robin, see that he has a good meal and clean clothing. he's to ride at first light. as you command, your grace, ser robin ryger replied. then we are done. the assembled knights and lords bannermen bent their knees as robb turned to leave, grey wind at his heels. olyvar frey scrambled ahead to open the door. catelyn followed them out, her brother at her side. you did well, she told her son in the gallery that led from the rear of the hall, though that business with the wolf was japery more befitting a boy than a king. robb scratched grey wind behind the ear. did you see the look on his face, mother? he asked, smiling. what i saw was lord karstark, walking out. as did i robb lifted off his crown with both hands and gave it to olyvar. take this thing back to my bedchamber. at once, your grace. the squire hurried off. i'll wager there were others who felt the same as lord karstark, her brother edmure declared. how can we talk of peace while the lannisters spread like a pestilence over my father's domains, stealing his crops and slaughtering his people? i say again, we ought to be marching on harrenhal. we lack the strength, robb said, though unhappily. edmure persisted. do we grow stronger sitting here? our host dwindles every day. and whose doing is that? catelyn snapped at her brother. it had been at edmure's insistence that robb had given the river lords leave to depart after his crowning, each to defend his own lands. ser marq piper and lord karyl vance had been the first to go. lord jonos bracken had followed, vowing to reclaim the burnt shell of his castle and bury his dead, and now lord jason mallister had announced his intent to return to his seat at seagard, still mercifully untouched by the fighting. you cannot ask my river lords to remain idle while their fields are being pillaged and their people put to the sword, ser edmure said, but lord karstark is a northman. it would be an ill thing if he were to leave us. i'll speak with him, said robb. he lost two sons in the whispering wood. who can blame him if he does not want to make peace with their killers... with my father's killers... more bloodshed will not bring your father back to us, or lord rickard's sons, catelyn said. an offer had to be made though a wiser man might have offered sweeter terms. any sweeter and i would have gagged. her son's beard had grown in redder than his auburn hair. robb seemed to think it made him look fierce, royal... older. but bearded or no, he was still a youth of fifteen, and wanted vengeance no less than rickard karstark. it had been no easy thing to convince him to make even this offer, poor as it was. cersei lannister will never consent to trade your sisters for a pair of cousins. it's her brother she'll want, as you know full well. she had told him as much before, but catelyn was finding that kings do not listen half so attentively as sons. i can't release the kingslayer, not even if i wanted to. my lords would never abide it. your lords made you their king. and can unmake me just as easy. if your crown is the price we must pay to have arya and sansa returned safe, we should pay it willingly. half your lords would like to murder lannister in his cell. if he should die while he's your prisoner, men will say- -that he well deserved it, robb finished. and your sisters? catelyn asked sharply. will they deserve their deaths as well? i promise you, if any harm comes to her brother, cersei will pay us back blood for blood- lannister won't die, robb said. no one so much as speaks to him without my warrant. he has food, water, clean straw, more comfort than he has any right to. but i won't free him, not even for arya and sansa. her son was looking down at her, catelyn realized. was it war that made him grow so fast, she wondered, or the crown they had put on his head? are you afraid to have jaime lannister in the field again, is that the truth of it? grey wind growled, as if he sensed robb's anger, and edmure tully put a brotherly hand on catelyn's shoulder. cat, don't. the boy has the right of this. don't call me the boy, robb said, rounding on his uncle, his anger spilling out all at once on poor edmure, who had only meant to support him. i'm almost a man grown, and a king-your king, ser. and i don't fear jaime lannister. i defeated him once, i'll defeat him again if i must, only... he pushed a fall of hair out of his eyes and gave a shake of the head. i might have been able to trade the kingslayer for father, but... ...but not for the girls? her voice was icy quiet. girls are not important enough, are they? robb made no answer, but there was hurt in his eyes. blue eyes, tully eyes, eyes she had given him. she had wounded him, but he was too much his father's son to admit it. that was unworthy of me, she told herself. gods be good, what is to become of me? he is doing his best, trying so hard, i know it, i see it, and yet... i have lost my ned, the rock my life was built on, i could not bear to lose the girls as well... i'll do all i can for my sisters, robb said. if the queen has any sense, she'll accept my terms. if not, i'll make her rue the day she refused me. plainly, he'd had enough of the subject. mother, are you certain you will not consent to go to the twins? you would be farther from the fighting, and you could acquaint yourself with lord frey's daughters to help me choose my bride when the war is done. he wants me gone, catelyn thought wearily. kings are not supposed to have mothers, it would seem, and i tell him things he does not want to hear. you're old enough to decide which of lord walder's girls you prefer without your mother's help, robb. then go with theon. he leaves on the morrow. he'll help the mallisters escort that lot of captives to seagard and then take ship for the iron islands. you could find a ship as well, and be back at winterfell with a moon's turn, if the winds are kind. bran and rickon need you. and you do not, is that what you mean to say? my lord father has little enough time remaining him. so long as your grandfather lives, my place is at riverrun with him. i could command you to go. as king. i could. catelyn ignored that. i'll say again, i would sooner you sent someone else to pyke, and kept theon close to you. who better to treat with balon greyjoy than his son? jason mallister, offered catelyn. tytos blackwood. stevron frey. anyone... but not theon. her son squatted beside grey wind, ruffling the wolfs fur and incidentally avoiding her eyes. theon's fought bravely for us. i told you how he saved bran from those wildlings in the wolfswood. if the lannisters won't make peace, i'll have need of lord greyjoy's longships. you'll have them sooner if you keep his son as hostage. he's been a hostage half his life. for good reason, catelyn said. balon greyjoy is not a man to be trusted. he wore a crown himself, remember, if only for a season. he may aspire to wear one again. robb stood. i will not grudge him that. if i'm king in the north, let him be king of the iron islands, if that's his desire. i'll give him a crown gladly, so long as he helps us bring down the lannisters. robb- i'm sending theon. good day, mother. grey wind, come. robb walked off briskly, the direwo if padding beside him. catelyn could only watch him go. her son and now her king. how queer that felt. command, she had told him back in moat cailin. and so he did. i am going to visit father, she announced abruptly. come with me, edmure. i need to have a word with those new bowmen ser desmond is training. i'll visit him later. if he still lives, catelyn thought, but she said nothing. her brother would sooner face battle than that sickroom. the shortest way to the central keep where her father lay dying was through the godswood, with its grass and wildflowers and thick stands of elm and redwood. a wealth of rustling leaves still clung to the branches of the trees, all ignorant of the word the white raven had brought to riverrun a fortnight past. autumn had come, the conclave had declared, but the gods had not seen fit to tell the winds and woods as yet. for that catelyn was duly grateful. autumn was always a fearful time, with the specter of winter looming ahead. even the wisest man never knew whether his next harvest would be the last. hoster tully, lord of riverrun, lay abed in his solar, with its commanding view to the east where the rivers tumblestone and red fork met beyond the walls of his castle. he was sleeping when catelyn entered, his hair and beard as white as his featherbed, his once portly frame turned small and frail by the death that grew within him. beside the bed, still dressed in mail hauberk and travel-stained cloak, sat her father's brother, the blackfish. his boots were dusty and spattered with dried mud. does robb know you are returned, uncle? ser brynden tully was robb's eyes and ears, the commander of his scouts and outriders. no. i came here straight from the stables, when they told me the king was holding court. his grace will want to hear my tidings in private first i'd think. the blackfish was a tall, lean man, grey of hair and precise in his movements, his clean-shaven face lined and windburnt. how is he? he asked, and she knew he did not mean robb. much the same. the maester gives him dreamwine and milk of the poppy for his pain, so he sleeps most of the time, and eats too little. he seems weaker with each day that passes. does he speak? yes... but there is less and less sense to the things he says. he talks of his regrets, of unfinished tasks, of people long dead and times long past. sometimes he does not know what season it is, or who i am. once he called me by mother's name. he misses her still, ser brynden answered. you have her face. i can see it in your cheekbones, and your jaw... you remember more of her than i do. it has been a long time. she seated herself on the bed and brushed away a strand of fine white hair that had fallen across her father's face. each time i ride out, i wonder if i shall find him alive or dead on my return. despite their quarrels, there was a deep bond between her father and the brother he had once disowned. at least you made your peace with him. they sat for a time in silence, until catelyn raised her head. you spoke of tidings that robb needed to hear? lord hoster moaned and rolled onto his side, almost as if he had heard. brynden stood. come outside. best if we do not wake him. she followed him out onto the stone balcony that jutted three-sided from the solar like the prow of a ship. her uncle glanced up, frowning. you can see it by day now. my men call it the red messenger... but what is the message? catelyn raised her eyes, to where the faint red line of the comet traced a path across the deep blue sky like a long scratch across the face of god. the greatjon told robb that the old gods have unfurled a red flag of vengeance for ned. edmure thinks it's an omen of victory for riverrunhe sees a fish with a long tail, in the tully colors, red against blue. she sighed. i wish i had their faith. crimson is a lannister color. that thing's not crimson, ser brynden said. nor tully red, the mud red of the river. that's blood up there, child, smeared across the sky. our blood or theirs? was there ever a war where only one side bled? her uncle gave a shake of the head. the riverlands are awash in blood and flame all around the gods eye. the fighting has spread south to the blackwater and north across the trident, almost to the twins. marq piper and karyl vance have won some small victories, and this southron lordling beric dondarrion has been raiding the raiders, falling upon lord tywin's foraging parties and vanishing back into the woods. it's said that ser burton crakehall was boasting that he'd slain dondarrion, until he led his column into one of lord beric's traps and got every man of them killed. some of ned's guard from king's landing are with this lord beric, catelyn recalled. may the gods preserve them. dondarrion and this red priest who rides with him are clever enough to preserve themselves, if the tales be true, her uncle said, but your father's bannermen make a sadder tale. robb should never have let them go. they've scattered like quail, each man trying to protect his own, and it's folly, cat, folly. jonos bracken was wounded in the fighting amidst the ruins of his castle, and his nephew hendry slain. tytos blackwood's swept the lannisters off his lands, but they took every cow and pig and speck of grain and left him nothing to defend but raventree hall and a scorched desert. darry men recaptured their lord's keep but held it less than a fortnight before gregor clegane descended on them and put the whole garrison to the sword, even their lord. catelyn was horrorstruck. darry was only a child. aye, and the last of his line as well. the boy would have brought a fine ransom, but what does gold mean to a frothing dog like gregor clegane? that beast's head would make a noble gift for all the people of the realm, i vow. catelyn knew ser gregor's evil reputation, yet still don't speak to me of heads, uncle. cersei has mounted ned's on a spike above the walls of the red keep, and left it for the crows and flies. even now, it was hard for her to believe that he was truly gone. some nights she would wake in darkness, half-asleep, and for an instant expect to find him there beside her. clegane is no more than lord tywin's catspaw. for tywin lannister-lord of casterly rock, warden of the west, father to queen cersei, ser jaime the kingslayer, and tyrion the imp, and grandfather to joffrey baratheon, the new-crowned boy king-was the true danger, catelyn believed. true enough, ser brynden admitted. and tywin lannister is no man's fool. he sits safe behind the walls of harrenhal, feeding his host on our harvest and burning what he does not take. gregor is not the only dog he's loosed. ser amory lorch is in the field as well, and some sellsword out of qohor who'd sooner maim a man than kill him. i've seen what they leave behind them. whole villages put to the torch, women raped and mutilated, butchered children left unburied to draw wolves and wild dogs... it would sicken even the dead. when edmure hears this, he will rage. and that will be just as lord tywin desires. even terror has its purpose, cat. lannister wants to provoke us to battle. robb is like to give him that wish, catelyn said, fretful. he is restless as a cat sitting here, and edmure and the greatjon and the others will urge him on. her son had won two great victories, smashing jaime lannister in the whispering wood and routing his leaderless host outside the walls of riverrun in the battle of the camps, but from the way some of his bannermen spoke of him, he might have been aegon the conqueror reborn. brynden blackfish arched a bushy grey eyebrow. more fool they. my first rule of war, cat- never give the enemy his wish. lord tywin would like to fight on a field of his own choosing. he wants us to march on harrenhal. harrenhal. every child of the trident knew the tales told of harrenhal, the vast fortress that king harren the black had raised beside the waters of gods eye three hundred years past, when the seven kingdoms had been seven kingdoms, and the riverlands were ruled by the ironmen from the islands. in his pride, harren had desired the highest hall and tallest towers in all westeros. forty years it had taken, rising like a great shadow on the shore of the lake while harren' s armies plundered his neighbors for stone, lumber, gold, and workers. thousands of captives died in his quarries, chained to his sledges, or laboring on his five colossal towers. men froze by winter and sweltered in summer. weirwoods that had stood three thousand years were cut down for beams and rafters. harren had beggared the riverlands and the iron islands alike to ornament his dream. and when at last harrenhal stood complete, on the very day king harren took up residence, aegon the conqueror had come ashore at king's landing. catelyn could remember hearing old nan tell the story to her own children, back at winterfell. 'and king harren learned that thick walls and high towers are small use against dragons, the tale always ended. for dragons fly. harren and all his line had perished in the fires that engulfed his monstrous fortress, and every house that held harrenhal since had come to misfortune. strong it might be, but it was a dark place, and cursed. i would not have robb fight a battle in the shadow of that keep, catelyn admitted. yet we must do something, uncle. and soon, her uncle agreed. i have not told you the worst of it, child. the men i sent west have brought back word that a new host is gathering at casterly rock. another lannister army. the thought made her ill. robb must be told at once. who will command? ser stafford lannister, it's said. he turned to gaze out over the rivers, his red-and-blue cloak stirring in the breeze. another nephew? the lannisters of casterly rock were a damnably large and fertile house. cousin, ser brynden corrected. brother to lord tywin's late wife, so twice related. an old man and a bit of a dullard, but he has a son, ser daven, who is more formidable. then let us hope it is the father and not the son who takes this army into the field. we have some time yet before we must face them. this lot will be sellswords, freeriders, and green boys from the stews of lannisport. ser stafford must see that they are armed and drilled before he dare risk battle... and make no mistake, lord tywin is not the kingslayer. he will not rush in heedless. he will wait patiently for ser stafford to march before he stirs from behind the walls of harrenhal. unless... said catelyn. yes? ser brynden prompted. unless he must leave harrenhal, she said, to face some other threat. her uncle looked at her thoughtfully. lord renly. king renly. if she would ask help from the man, she would need to grant him the style he had claimed for himself. perhaps. the blackfish smiled a dangerous smile. he'll want something, though. he'll want what kings always want, she said. homage. as she slept amidst the rolling grasslands, catelyn dreamt that bran was whole again, that arya and sansa held hands, that rickon was still a babe at her breast. robb, crownless, played with a wooden sword, and when all were safe asleep, she found ned in her bed, smiling. sweet it was, sweet and gone too soon. dawn came cruel, a dagger of light. she woke aching and alone and weary; weary of riding, weary of hurting, weary of duty. i want to weep, she thought. i want to be comforted. i'm so tired of being strong. i want to be foolish and frightened for once. just for a small while, that's all... a day... an hour... outside her tent, men were stirring. she heard the whicker of horses, shadd complaining of stiffness in his back, ser wendel calling for his bow. catelyn wished they would all go away. they were good men, loyal, yet she was tired of them all. it was her children she yearned after. one day, she promised herself as she lay abed, one day she would allow herself to be less than strong. but not today. it could not be today. her fingers seemed more clumsy than usual as she fumbled on her clothes. she supposed she ought to be grateful that she had any use of her hands at all. the dagger had been valyrian steel, and valyrian steel bites deep and sharp. she had only to look at the scars to remember. outside, shadd was stirring oats into a kettle, while ser wendel manderly sat stringing his bow. my lady, he said when catelyn emerged. there are birds in this grass. would you fancy a roast quail to break your fast this morning? oats and bread are sufficient... for all of us, i think. we have many leagues yet to ride, ser wendel. as you will, my lady. the knight's moon face looked crestfallen, the tips of his great walrus mustache twitching with disappointment. oats and bread, and what could be better? he was one of the fattest men catelyn had ever known, but howevermuch he loved his food, he loved his honor more. found some nettles and brewed a tea, shadd announced. will m'lady take a cup? yes, with thanks. she cradled the tea in her scarred hands and blew on it to cool it. shadd was one of the winterfell men. robb had sent twenty of his best to see her safely to renly. he had sent five lordlings as well, whose names and high birth would add weight and honor to her mission. as they made their way south, staying well clear of towns and holdfasts, they had seen bands of mailed men more than once, and glimpsed smoke on the eastern horizon, but none had dared molest them. they were too weak to be a threat, too many to be easy prey. once across the blackwater, the worst was behind. for the past four days, they had seen no signs of war. catelyn had never wanted this. she had told robb as much, back in riverrun. when last i saw renly, he was a boy no older than bran. i do not know him. send someone else. my place is here with my father, for whatever time he has left. her son had looked at her unhappily. there is no one else. i cannot go myself. your father's too ill. the blackfish is my eyes and ears, i dare not lose him. your brother i need to hold riverrun when we march- march? no one had said a word to her of marching. i cannot sit at riverrun waiting for peace. it makes me look as if i were afraid to take the field again. when there are no battles to fight, men start to think of hearth and harvest, father told me that. even my northmen grow restless. my northmen, she thought. he is even starting to talk like a king. no one has ever died of restlessness, but rashness is another matter. we've planted seeds, let them grow. robb shook his head stubbornly. we've tossed some seeds in the wind, that's all. if your sister lysa was coming to aid us, we would have heard by now. how many birds have we sent to the eyrie, four? i want peace too, but why should the lannisters give me anything if all i do is sit here while my army melts away around me swift as summer snow? so rather than look craven, you will dance to lord tywin's pipes? she threw back. he wants you to march on harrenhal, ask your uncle brynden if- i said nothing of harrenhal, robb said. now, will you go to renly for me, or must i send the greatjon? the memory brought a wan smile to her face. such an obvious ploy, that, yet deft for a boy of fifteen. robb knew how ill-suited a man like greatjon umber would be to treat with a man like renly baratheon, and he knew that she knew it as well. what could she do but accede, praying that her father would live until her return? had lord hoster been well, he would have gone himself, she knew. still, that leavetaking was hard, hard. he did not even know her when she came to say farewell. minisa, he called her, where are the children? my little cat, my sweet lysa... catelyn had kissed him on the brow and told him his babes were well. wait for me, my lord, she said as his eyes closed. i waited for you, oh, so many times. now you must wait for me. fate drives me south and south again, catelyn thought as she sipped the astringent tea, when it is north i should be going, north to home. she had written to bran and rickon, that last night at riverrun. i do not forget you, my sweet ones, you must believe that. it is only that your brother needs me more. we ought to reach the upper mander today, my lady, ser wendel announced while shadd spooned out the porridge. lord renly will not be far, if the talk be true. and what do i tell him when i find him? that my son holds him no true king? she did not relish this meeting. they needed friends, not more enemies, yet robb would never bend the knee in homage to a man he felt had no claim to the throne. her bowl was empty, though she could scarce remember tasting the porridge. she laid it aside. it is time we were away. the sooner she spoke to renly, the sooner she could turn for home. she was the first one mounted, and she set the pace for the column. hal mollen rode beside her, bearing the banner of house stark, the grey direwolf on an ice- white field. they were still a half day's ride from renly's camp when they were taken. robin flint had ranged ahead to scout, and he came galloping back with word of a far-eyes watching from the roof of a distant windmill. by the time catelyn's party reached the mill, the man was long gone. they pressed on, covering not quite a mile before renly's outriders came swooping down on them, twenty men mailed and mounted, led by a grizzled greybeard of a knight with bluejays on his surcoat. when he saw her banners, he trotted up to her alone. my lady, he called, i am ser colen of greenpools, as it please you. these are dangerous lands you cross. our business is urgent, she answered him. i come as envoy from my son, robb stark, the king in the north, to treat with renly baratheon, the king in the south. king renly is the crowned and anointed lord of all the seven kingdoms, my lady, ser colen answered, though courteously enough. his grace is encamped with his host near bitterbridge, where the roseroad crosses the mander. it shall be my great honor to escort you to him. the knight raised a mailed hand, and his men formed a double column flanking catelyn and her guard. escort or captor? she wondered. there was nothing to be done but trust in ser colen' s honor, and lord renly's. they saw the smoke of the camp's fires when they were still an hour from the river. then the sound came drifting across farm and field and rolling plain, indistinct as the murmur of some distant sea, but swelling as they rode closer. by the time they caught sight of the mander's muddy waters glinting in the sun, they could make out the voices of men, the clatter of steel, the whinny of horses. yet neither sound nor smoke prepared them for the host itself. thousands of cookfires filled the air with a pale smoky haze. the horse lines alone stretched out over leagues. a forest had surely been felled to make the tall staffs that held the banners. great siege engines lined the grassy verge of the roseroad, mangonels and trebuchets and rolling rams mounted on wheels taller than a man on horseback. the steel points of pikes flamed red with sunlight, as if already blooded, while the pavilions of the knights and high lords sprouted from the grass like silken mushrooms. she saw men with spears and men with swords, men in steel caps and mail shirts, camp followers strutting their charms, archers fletching arrows, teamsters driving wagons, swineherds driving pigs, pages running messages, squires honing swords, knights riding palfreys, grooms leading ill-tempered destriers. this is a fearsome lot of men, ser wendel manderly observed as they crossed the ancient stone span from which bitterbridge took its name. that it is, catelyn agreed. near all the chivalry of the south had come to renly's call, it seemed. the golden rose of highgarden was seen everywhere: sewn on the right breast of armsmen and servants, flapping and fluttering from the green silk banners that adorned lance and pike, painted upon the shields hung outside the pavilions of the sons and brothers and cousins and uncles of house tyrell. as well catelyn spied the fox-and- flowers of house flo rent, fossoway apples red and green, lord tarly's striding huntsman, oak leaves for oakheart, cranes for crane, a cloud of black-and- orange butterflies for the mullendores. across the mander, the storm lords had raised their standards renly's own bannermen, sworn to house baratheon and storm's end. catelyn recognized bryce caron's nightingales, the penrose quills, and lord estermont's sea turtle, green on green. yet for every shield she knew, there were a dozen strange to her, borne by the small lords sworn to the bannermen, and by hedge knights and freeriders, who had come swarming to make renly baratheon a king in fact as well as name. renly's own standard flew high over all. from the top of his tallest siege tower, a wheeled oaken immensity covered with rawhides, streamed the largest war banner that catelyn had ever seen-a cloth big enough to carpet many a hall, shimmering gold, with the crowned stag of baratheon black upon it, prancing proud and tall. my lady, do you hear that noise? asked hallis mollen, trotting close. what is that? she listened. shouts, and horses screaming, and the clash of steel, and... cheering, she said. they had been riding up a gentle slope toward a line of brightly colored pavilions on the height. as they passed between them, the press of men grew thicker, the sounds louder. and then she saw. below, beneath the stone-and-timber battlements of a small castle, a melee was in progress. a field had been cleared off, fences and galleries and tilting barriers thrown up. hundreds were gathered to watch, perhaps thousands. from the looks of the grounds, torn and muddy and littered with bits of dinted armor and broken lances, they had been at it for a day or more, but now the end was near. fewer than a score of knights remained ahorse, charging and slashing at each other as watchers and fallen combatants cheered them on. she saw two destriers collide in full armor, going down in a tangle of steel and horseflesh. a tourney, hal mollen declared. he had a penchant for loudly announcing the obvious. oh, splendid, ser wendel manderly said as a knight in a rainbowstriped cloak wheeled to deliver a backhand blow with a long- handled axe that shattered the shield of the man pursuing him and sent him reeling in his stirrups. the press in front of them made further progress difficult. lady stark, ser colen said, if your men would be so good as to wait here, i'll present you to the king. as you say. she gave the command, though she had to raise her voice to be heard above the tourney din. ser colen walked his horse slowly through the throngs, with catelyn riding in his wake. a roar went up from the crowd as a helmetless red-bearded man with a griffin on his shield went down before a big knight in blue armor. his steel was a deep cobalt, even the blunt morningstar he wielded with such deadly effect, his mount barded in the quartered sun-and-moon heraldry of house tarth. red ronnet's down, gods be damned, a man cursed. loras'll do for that blue- a companion answered before a roar drowned out the rest of his words. another man was fallen, trapped beneath his injured horse, both of them screaming in pain. squires rushed out to aid them. this is madness, catelyn thought. real enemies on every side and half the realm in flames, and renly sits here playing at war like a boy with his first wooden sword. the lords and ladies in the gallery were as engrossed in the melee as the men on the ground. catelyn marked them well. her father had oft treated with the southron lords, and not a few had been guests at riverrun. she recognized lord mathis rowan, stouter and more florid than ever, the golden tree of his house spread across his white doublet. below him sat lady oakheart, tiny and delicate, and to her left lord randyll tarly of horn hill, his greatsword heartsbane propped up against the back of his seat. others she knew only by their sigils, and some not at all. in their midst, watching and laughing with his young queen by his side, sat a ghost in a golden crown. small wonder the lords gather around him with such fervor, she thought, he is robert come again. renly was handsome as robert had been handsome; long of limb and broad of shoulder, with the same coalblack hair, fine and straight, the same deep blue eyes, the same easy smile. the slender circlet around his brows seemed to suit him well. it was soft gold, a ring of roses exquisitely wrought; at the front lifted a stag's head of dark green jade, adorned with golden eyes and golden antlers. the crowned stag decorated the king's green velvet tunic as well, worked in gold thread upon his chest; the baratheon sigil in the colors of highgarden. the girl who shared the high seat with him was also of highgarden: his young queen, margaery, daughter to lord mace tyrell. their marriage was the mortar that held the great southron alliance together, catelyn knew. renly was one-and-twenty, the girl no older than robb, very pretty, with a doe's soft eyes and a mane of curling brown hair that fell about her shoulders in lazy ringlets. her smile was shy and sweet. out in the field, another man lost his seat to the knight in the rainbow-striped cloak, and the king shouted approval with the rest. loras! she heard him call. loras! highgarden! the queen clapped her hands together in excitement. catelyn turned to see the end of it. only four men were left in the fight now, and there was small doubt whom king and commons favored. she had never met ser loras tyrell, but even in the distant north one heard tales of the prowess of the young knight of flowers. ser loras rode a tall white stallion in silver mail, and fought with a long-handled axe. a crest of golden roses ran down the center of his helm. two of the other survivors had made common cause. they spurred their mounts toward the knight in the cobalt armor. as they closed to either side, the blue knight reined hard, smashing one man full in the face with his splintered shield while his black destrier lashed out with a steel- shod hoof at the other. in a blink, one combatant was unhorsed, the other reeling. the blue knight let his broken shield drop to the ground to free his left arm, and then the knight of flowers was on him. the weight of his steel seemed to hardly diminish the grace and quickness with which ser loras moved, his rainbow cloak swirling about him. the white horse and the black one wheeled like lovers at a harvest dance, the riders throwing steel in place of kisses. longaxe flashed and morningstar whirled. both weapons were blunted, yet still they raised an awful clangor. shieldless, the blue knight was getting much the worse of it. ser loras rained down blows on his head and shoulders, to shouts of highgarden! from the throng. the other gave answer with his morningstar, but whenever the ball came crashing in, ser loras interposed his battered green shield, emblazoned with three golden roses. when the longaxe caught the blue knight's hand on the backswing and sent the morningstar flying from his grasp, the crowd screamed like a rutting beast. the knight of flowers raised his axe for the final blow. the blue knight charged into it. the stallions slammed together, the blunted axehead smashed against the scarred blue breastplate... but somehow the blue knight had the haft locked between steel-gauntleted fingers. he wrenched it from ser loras's hand, and suddenly the two were grappling mount-to-mount, and an instant later they were falling. as their horses pulled apart, they crashed to the ground with bone -jarring force. loras tyrell, on the bottom, took the brunt of the impact. the blue knight pulled a long dirk free and flicked open tyrell's visor. the roar of the crowd was too loud for catelyn to hear what ser loras said, but she saw the word form on his split, bloody lips. yield. the blue knight climbed unsteady to his feet, and raised his dirk in the direction of renly baratheon, the salute of a champion to his king. squires dashed onto the field to help the vanquished knight to his feet. when they got his helm off, catelyn was startled to see how young he was. he could not have had more than two years on robb. the boy might have been as comely as his sister, but the broken lip, unfocused eyes, and blood trickling through his matted hair made it hard to be certain. approach, king renly called to the champion. he limped toward the gallery. at close hand, the brilliant blue armor looked rather less splendid; everywhere it showed scars, the dents of mace and warhammer, the long gouges left by swords, chips in the enameled breastplate and helm. his cloak hung in rags. from the way he moved, the man within was no less battered. a few voices hailed him with cries of tarth! and, oddly, 'a beauty! a beauty! but most were silent. the blue knight knelt before the king. grace, he said, his voice muffled by his dented greathelm. you are all your lord father claimed you were. renly's voice carried over the field. i've seen ser loras unhorsed once or twice... but never quite in that fashion. that were no proper unhorsing, complained a drunken archer nearby, a tyrell rose sewn on his jerkin. a vile trick, pulling the lad down. the press had begun to open up. ser colen, catelyn said to her escort, who is this man, and why do they mislike him so? ser colen frowned. because he is no man, my lady. that's brienne of tarth, daughter to lord selwyn the evenstar. daughter? catelyn was horrified. brienne the beauty, they name her... though not to her face, lest they be called upon to defend those words with their bodies. she heard king renly declare the lady brienne of tarth the victor of the great melee at bitterbridge, last mounted of one hundred sixteen knights. as champion, you may ask of me any boon that you desire. if it lies in my power, it is yours. your grace, brienne answered, i ask the honor of a place among your rainbow guard. i would be one of your seven, and pledge my life to yours, to go where you go, ride at your side, and keep you safe from all hurt and harm. done, he said. rise, and remove your helm. she did as he bid her. and when the greathelm was lifted, catelyn understood ser colen's words. beauty, they called her... mocking. the hair beneath the visor was a squirrel's nest of dirty straw, and her face... brienne's eyes were large and very blue, a young girl's eyes, trusting and guileless, but the rest... her features were broad and coarse, her teeth prominent and crooked, her mouth too wide, her lips so plump they seemed swollen. a thousand freckles speckled her cheeks and brow, and her nose had been broken more than once. pity filled catelyn' s heart. is there any creature on earth as unfortunate as an ugly woman? and yet, when renly cut away her torn cloak and fastened a rainbow in its place, brienne of tarth did not look unfortunate. her smile lit up her face, and her voice was strong and proud as she said, my life for yours, your grace. from this day on, i am your shield, i swear it by the old gods and the new. the way she looked at the king-looked down at him, she was a good hand higher, though renly was near as tall as his brother had been-was painful to see. your grace! ser colen of greenpools swung down off his horse to approach the gallery. i beg your leave. he went to one knee. i have the honor to bring you the lady catelyn stark, sent as envoy by her son robb, lord of winterfell. lord of winterfell and king in the north, ser, catelyn corrected him. she dismounted and moved to ser colen's side. king renly looked surprised. lady catelyn? we are most pleased. he turned to his young queen. margaery my sweet, this is the lady catelyn stark of winterfell. you are most welcome here, lady stark, the girl said, all soft courtesy. i am sorry for your loss. you are kind, said catelyn. my lady, i swear to you, i will see that the lannisters answer for your husband's murder, the king declared. when i take king's landing, i'll send you cersei's head. and will that bring my ned back to me? she thought, it will be enough to know that justice has been done, my lord. your grace, brienne the blue corrected sharply. and you should kneel when you approach the king. the distance between a lord and a grace is a small one, my lady, catelyn said. lord renly wears a crown, as does my son. if you wish, we may stand here in the mud and debate what honors and titles are rightly due to each, but it strikes me that we have more pressing matters to consider. some of renly's lords bristled at that, but the king only laughed. well said, my lady. there will be time enough for graces when these wars are done. tell me, when does your son mean to march against harrenhal?  until she knew whether this king was friend or foe, catelyn was not about to reveal the least part of robb's dispositions. i do not sit on my son's war councils, my lord. so long as he leaves a few lannisters for me, i'll not complain. what has he done with the kingslayer? jaime lannister is held prisoner at riverrun. still alive? lord mathis rowan seemed dismayed. bemused, renly said, it would seem the direwolf is gentler than the lion. gentler than the lannisters, murmured lady oakheart with a bitter smile, is drier than the sea. i call it weak. lord randyll tarly had a short, bristly grey beard and a reputation for blunt speech. no disrespect to you, lady stark, but it would have been more seemly had lord robb come to pay homage to the king himself, rather than hiding behind his mother's skirts. king robb is warring, my lord, catelyn replied with icy courtesy, not playing at tourney. renly grinned. go softly, lord randyll, i fear you're overmatched. he summoned a steward in the livery of storm's end. find a place for the lady's companions, and see that they have every comfort. lady catelyn shall have my own pavilion. since lord caswell has been so kind as to give me use of his castle, i have no need of it. my lady, when you are rested, i would be honored if you would share our meat and mead at the feast lord caswell is giving us tonight. a farewell feast. i fear his lordship is eager to see the heels of my hungry horde. not true, your grace, protested a wispy young man who must have been caswell. what is mine is yours. whenever someone said that to my brother robert, he took them at their word, renly said. do you have daughters? yes, your grace. two. then thank the gods that i am not robert. my sweet queen is all the woman i desire. renly held out his hand to help margaery to her feet. we'll talk again when you've had a chance to refresh yourself, lady catelyn. renly led his bride back toward the castle while his steward conducted catelyn to the king's green silk pavilion. if you have need of anything, you have only to ask, my lady. catelyn could scarcely imagine what she might need that had not already been provided. the pavilion was larger than the common rooms of many an inn and furnished with every comfort: feather mattress and sleeping furs, a wood-and-copper tub large enough for two, braziers, to keep off the night's chill, slung leather camp chairs, a writing table with quills and inkpot, bowls of peaches, plums, and pears, a flagon of wine with a set of matched silver cups, cedar chests packed full of renly's clothing, books, maps, game boards, a high harp, a tall bow and a quiver of arrows, a pair of red-tailed hunting hawks, a vertible armory of fine weapons. he does not stint himself, this renly, she thought as she looked about. small wonder this host moves so slowly. beside the entrance, the king's armor stood sentry; a suit of forestgreen plate, its fittings chased with gold, the helm crowned by a great rack of golden antlers. the steel was polished to such a high sheen that she could see her reflection in the breastplate, gazing back at her as if from the bottom of a deep green pond. the face of a drowned woman, catelyn thought. can you drown in grief? she turned away sharply, angry with her own frailty. she had no time for the luxury of self-pity. she must wash the dust from her hair and change into a gown more fitting for a king's feast. ser wendel manderly, lucas blackwood, ser perwyn frey, and the rest of her highborn companions accompanied her to the castle. the great hall of lord caswell's keep was great only by courtesy, yet room was found on the crowded benches for catelyn' s men, amidst renly' s own knights. catelyn was assigned a place on the dais between red-faced lord mathis rowan and genial ser jon fossoway of the green-apple fossoways. ser jon made jests, while lord mathis inquired politely after the health of her father, brother, and children. brienne of tarth had been seated at the far end of the high table. she did not gown herself as a lady, but chose a knight's finery instead, a velvet doublet quartered rose-and-azure, breeches and boots and a finetooled swordbelt, her new rainbow cloak flowing down her back. no garb could disguise her plainness, though; the huge freckled hands, the wide flat face, the thrust of her teeth. out of armor, her body seemed ungainly, broad of hip and thick of limb, with hunched muscular shoulders but no bosom to speak of. and it was clear from her every action that brienne knew it, and suffered for it. she spoke only in answer, and seldom lifted her gaze from her food. of food there was plenty. the war had not touched the fabled bounty of highgarden. while singers sang and tumblers tumbled, they began with pears poached in wine, and went on to tiny savory fish rolled in salt and cooked crisp, and capons stuffed with onions and mushrooms. there were great loaves of brown bread, mounds of turnips and sweetcorn and pease, immense hams and roast geese and trenchers dripping full of venison stewed with beer and barley. for the sweet, lord caswell's servants brought down trays of pastries from his castle kitchens, cream swans and spun-sugar unicorns, lemon cakes in the shape of roses, spiced honey biscuits and blackberry tarts, apple crisps and wheels of buttery cheese. the rich foods made catelyn queasy, but it would never do to show frailty when so much depended on her strength. she ate sparingly, while she watched this man who would be king. renly sat with his young bride on his left hand and her brother on the right. apart from the white linen bandage around his brow, ser loras seemed none the worse for the day's misadventures. he was indeed as comely as catelyn had suspected he might be. when not glazed, his eyes were lively and intelligent, his hair an artless tumble of brown locks that many a maid might have envied. he had replaced his tattered tourney cloak with a new one; the same brilliantly striped silk of renly' s rainbow guard, clasped with the golden rose of highgarden. from time to time, king renly would feed margaery some choice morsel off the point of his dagger, or lean over to plant the lightest of kisses on her cheek, but it was ser loras who shared most of his jests and confidences. the king enjoyed his food and drink, that was plain to see, yet he seemed neither glutton nor drunkard. he laughed often, and well, and spoke amiably to highborn lords and lowly serving wenches alike. some of his guests were less moderate. they drank too much and boasted too loudly, to her mind. lord willum's sons josua and elyas disputed heatedly about who would be first over the walls of king's landing. lord varner dandled a serving girl on his lap, nuzzling at her neck while one hand went exploring down her bodice. guyard the green, who fancied himself a singer, diddled a harp and gave them a verse about tying lions' tails in knots, parts of which rhymed. ser mark mullendore brought a black-and-white monkey and fed him morsels from his own plate, while ser tanton of the red-apple fossoways climbed on the table and swore to slay sandor clegane in single combat. the vow might have been taken more solemnly if ser tanton had not had one foot in a gravy boat when he made it. the height of folly was reached when a plump fool came capering out in gold-painted tin with a cloth lion's head, and chased a dwarf around the tables, whacking him over the head with a bladder. finally king renly demanded to know why he was beating his brother. why, your grace, i'm the kinslayer, the fool said. it's kingslayer, fool of a fool, renly said, and the hall rang with laughter. lord rowan beside her did not join the merriment. they are all so young, he said. it was true. the knight of flowers could not have reached his second name day when robert slew prince rhaegar on the trident. few of the others were very much older. they had been babes during the sack of king's landing, and no more than boys when balon greyjoy raised the iron islands in rebellion. they are still unblooded, catelyn thought as she watched lord bryce goad ser robar into juggling a brace of daggers. it is all a game to them still, a tourney writ large, and all they see is the chance for glory and honor and spoils. they are boys drunk on song and story, and like all boys, they think themselves immortal. war will make them old, catelyn said, as it did us. she had been a girl when robert and ned and jon arryn raised their banners against aerys targaryen, a woman by the time the fighting was done. i pity them. why? lord rowan asked her. look at them. they're young and strong, full of life and laughter. and lust, aye, more lust than they know what to do with. there will be many a bastard bred this night, i promise you. why pity? because it will not last, catelyn answered, sadly. because they are the knights of summer, and winter is coming. lady catelyn, you are wrong. brienne regarded her with eyes as blue as her armor. winter will never come for the likes of us. should we die in battle, they will surely sing of us, and it's always summer in the songs. in the songs all knights are gallant, all maids are beautiful, and the sun is always shining. winter comes for all of us, catelyn thought. for me, it came when ned died. it will come for you too, child, and sooner than you like. she did not have the heart to say it. the king saved her. lady catelyn, renly called down. i feel the need of some air. will you walk with me? catelyn stood at once. i should be honored. brienne was on her feet as well. your grace, give me but a moment to don my mail. you should not be without protection. king renly smiled. if i am not safe in the heart of lord caswell's castle, with my own host around me, one sword will make no matter... not even your sword, brienne. sit and eat. if i have need of you, i'll send for you. his words seemed to strike the girl harder than any blow she had taken that afternoon. as you will, your grace. brienne sat, eyes downcast. renly took catelyn's arm and led her from the hall, past a slouching guardsman who straightened so hurriedly that he near dropped his spear. renly clapped the man on the shoulder and made a jest of it. this way, my lady. the king took her through a low door into a stair tower. as they started up, he said, perchance, is ser barristan selmy with your son at riverrun? no, she answered, puzzled. is he no longer with joffrey? he was the lord commander of the kingsguard. renly shook his head. the lannisters told him he was too old and gave his cloak to the hound. i'm told he left king's landing vowing to take up service with the true king. that cloak brienne claimed today was the one i was keeping for selmy, in hopes that he might offer me his sword. when he did not turn up at highgarden, i thought perhaps he had gone to riverrun instead. we have not seen him. he was old, yes, but a good man still. i hope he has not come to harm. the lannisters are great fools. they climbed a few more steps. on the night of robert's death, i offered your husband a hundred swords and urged him to take joffrey into his power. had he listened, he would be regent today, and there would have been no need for me to claim the throne. ned refused you. she did not have to be told. he had sworn to protect robert's children, renly said. i lacked the strength to act alone, so when lord eddard turned me away, i had no choice but to flee. had i stayed, i knew the queen would see to it that i did not long outlive my brother. had you stayed, and lent your support to ned, he might still be alive, catelyn thought bitterly. i liked your husband well enough, my lady. he was a loyal friend to robert, i know... but he would not listen and he would not bend. here, i wish to show you something. they had reached the top of the stairwell. renly pushed open a wooden door, and they stepped out onto the roof. lord caswell's keep was scarcely tall enough to call a tower, but the country was low and flat and catelyn could see for leagues in all directions. wherever she looked, she saw fires. they covered the earth like fallen stars, and like the stars there was no end to them. count them if you like, my lady, renly said quietly. you will still be counting when dawn breaks in the east. how many fires burn around riverrun tonight, i wonder? catelyn could hear faint music drifting from the great hall, seeping out into the night. she dare not count the stars. i'm told your son crossed the neck with twenty thousand swords at his back, renly went on. now that the lords of the trident are with him, perhaps he commands forty thousand. no, she thought, not near so many, we have lost men in battle, and others to the harvest. i have twice that number here, renly said, and this is only part of my strength. mace tyrell remains at highgarden with another ten thousand, i have a strong garrison holding storm's end, and soon enough the dornishmen will join me with all their power. and never forget my brother stannis, who holds dragonstone and commands the lords of the narrow sea. it would seem that you are the one who has forgotten stannis, catelyn said, more sharply than she'd intended. his claim, you mean? renly laughed. let us be blunt, my lady. stannis would make an appalling king. nor is he like to become one. men respect stannis, even fear him, but precious few have ever loved him. he is still your elder brother. if either of you can be said to have a right to the iron throne, it must be lord stannis. renly shrugged. tell me, what right did my brother robert ever have to the iron throne? he did not wait for an answer. oh, there was talk of the blood ties between baratheon and targaryen, of weddings a hundred years past, of second sons and elder daughters. no one but the maesters care about any of it. robert won the throne with his warhammer. he swept a hand across the campfires that burned from horizon to horizon. well, there is my claim, as good as robert's ever was. if your son supports me as his father supported robert, he'll not find me ungenerous. i will gladly confirm him in all his lands, titles, and honors. he can rule in winterfell as he pleases. he can even go on calling himself king in the north if he likes, so long as he bends the knee and does me homage as his overlord. king is only a word, but fealty, loyalty, service... those i must have. and if he will not give them to you, my lord? i mean to be king, my lady, and not of a broken kingdom. i cannot say it plainer than that. three hundred years ago, a stark king knelt to aegon the dragon, when he saw he could not hope to prevail. that was wisdom. your son must be wise as well. once he joins me, this war is good as done. we- renly broke off suddenly, distracted. what's this now? the rattle of chains heralded the raising of the portcullis. down in the yard below, a rider in a winged helm urged his well- lathered horse under the spikes. summon the king! he called. renly vaulted up into a crenel. i'm here, ser. your grace. the rider spurred his mount closer. i came swift as i could. from storm's end. we are besieged, your grace, ser cortnay defies them, but... but... that's not possible. i would have been told if lord tywin left harrenhal. these are no larmisters, my liege. it's lord stannis at your gates. king stannis, he calls himself now. the meeting place was a grassy sward dotted with pale grey mushrooms and the raw stumps of felled trees. we are the first, my lady, hallis mollen said as they reined up amidst the stumps, alone between the armies. the direwo if banner of house stark flapped and fluttered atop the lance he bore. catelyn could not see the sea from here, but she could feel how close it was. the smell of salt was heavy on the wind gusting from the east. stannis baratheon's foragers had cut the trees down for his siege towers and catapults. catelyn wondered how long the grove had stood, and whether ned had rested here when he led his host south to lift the last siege of storm's end. he had won a great victory that day, all the greater for being bloodless. gods grant that i shall do the same, catelyn prayed. her own liege men thought she was mad even to come. this is no fight of ours, my lady, ser wendel manderly had said. i know the king would not wish his mother to put herself at risk. we are all at risk, she told him, perhaps too sharply. do you think i wish to be here, ser? i belong at riverrun with my dying father, at winterfell with my sons. robb sent me south to speak for him, and speak for him i shall. it would be no easy thing to forge a peace between these brothers, catelyn knew, yet for the good of the realm, it must be tried. across rain-sodden fields and stony ridges, she could see the great castle of storm's end rearing up against the sky, its back to the unseen sea. beneath that mass of pale grey stone, the encircling army of lord stannis baratheon looked as small and insignificant as mice with banners. the songs said that storm's end had been raised in ancient days by durran, the first storm king, who had won the love of the fair elenei, daughter of the sea god and the goddess of the wind. on the night of their wedding, elenei had yielded her maidenhood to a mortal's love and thus doomed herself to a mortal's death, and her grieving parents had unleashed their wrath and sent the winds and waters to batter down durran' s hold. his friends and brothers and wedding guests were crushed beneath collapsing walls or blown out to sea, but elenei sheltered durran within her arms so he took no harm, and when the dawn came at last he declared war upon the gods and vowed to rebuild. five more castles he built, each larger and stronger than the last, only to see them smashed asunder when the gale winds came howling up shipbreaker bay, driving great walls of water before them. his lords pleaded with him to build inland; his priests told him he must placate the gods by giving elenei back to the sea; even his smallfolk begged him to relent. durran would have none of it. a seventh castle he raised, most massive of all. some said the children of the forest helped him build it, shaping the stones with magic; others claimed that a small boy told him what he must do, a boy who would grow to be bran the builder. no matter how the tale was told, the end was the same. though the angry gods threw storm after storm against it, the seventh castle stood defiant, and durran godsgrief and fair elenei dwelt there together until the end of their days. gods do not forget, and still the gales came raging up the narrow sea. yet storm's end endured, through centuries and tens of centuries, a castle like no other. its great curtain wall was a hundred feet high, unbroken by arrow slit or postern, everywhere rounded, curving, smooth, its stones fit so cunningly together that nowhere was crevice nor angle nor gap by which the wind might enter. that wall was said to be forty feet thick at its narrowest, and near eighty on the seaward face, a double course of stones with an inner core of sand and rubble. within that mighty bulwark, the kitchens and stables and yards sheltered safe from wind and wave. of towers, there was but one, a colossal drum tower, windowless where it faced the sea, so large that it was granary and barracks and feast hall and lord's dwelling all in one, crowned by massive battlements that made it look from afar like a spiked fist atop an upthrust arm. my lady, hal mollen called. two riders had emerged from the tidy little camp beneath the castle, and were coming toward them at a slow walk. that will be king stannis. no doubt. catelyn watched them come. stannis it must be, yet that is not the baratheon banner. it was a bright yellow, not the rich gold of renly's standards, and the device it bore was red, though she could not make out its shape. renly would be last to arrive. he had told her as much when she set out. he did not propose to mount his horse until he saw his brother well on his way. the first to arrive must wait on the other, and renly would do no waiting. it is a sort of game kings play, she told herself. well, she was no king, so she need not play it. catelyn was practiced at waiting. as he neared, she saw that stannis wore a crown of red gold with points fashioned in the shape of flames. his belt was studded with garnets and yellow topaz, and a great square-cut ruby was set in the hilt of the sword he wore. otherwise his dress was plain: studded leather jerkin over quilted doublet, worn boots, breeches of brown roughspun. the device on his sun-yellow banner showed a red heart surrounded by a blaze of orange fire. the crowned stag was there, yes... shrunken and enclosed within the heart. even more curious was his standard bearer-a woman, garbed all in reds, face shadowed within the deep hood of her scarlet cloak. a red priestess, catelyn thought, wondering. the sect was numerous and powerful in the free cities and the distant east, but there were few in the seven kingdoms. lady stark, stannis baratheon said with chill courtesy as he reined up. he inclined his head, balder than she remembered. lord stannis, she returned. beneath the tight-trimmed beard his heavy jaw clenched hard, yet he did not hector her about titles. for that she was duly grateful. i had not thought to find you at storm's end. i had not thought to be here. his deepset eyes regarded her uncomfortably. this was not a man made for easy courtesies. i am sorry for your lord's death, he said, though eddard stark was no friend to me. he was never your enemy, my lord. when the lords tyrell and redwyne held you prisoned in that castle, starving, it was eddard stark who broke the siege. at my brother's command, not for love of me, stannis answered. lord eddard did his duty, i will not deny it. did i ever do less? i should have been robert's hand. that was your brother's will. ned never wanted it. yet he took it. that which should have been mine. still, i give you my word, you shall have justice for his murder. how they loved to promise heads, these men who would be king. your brother promised me the same. but if truth be told, i would sooner have my daughters back, and leave justice to the gods. cersei still holds my sansa, and of arya there has been no word since the day of robert's death. if your children are found when i take the city, they shall be sent to you. alive or dead, his tone implied. and when shall that be, lord stannis? king's landing is close to your dragonstone, but i find you here instead. you are frank, lady stark. very well, i'll answer you frankly. to take the city, i need the power of these southron lords i see across the field. my brother has them. i must needs take them from him. men give their allegiance where they will, my lord. these lords swore fealty to robert and house baratheon. if you and your brother were to put aside your quarrel- i have no quarrel with renly, should he prove dutiful. i am his elder, and his king. i want only what is mine by rights. renly owes me loyalty and obedience. i mean to have it. from him, and from these other lords. stannis studied her face. and what cause brings you to this field, my lady? has house stark cast its lot with my brother, is that the way of it? this one will never bend, she thought, yet she must try nonetheless. too much was at stake. my son reigns as king in the north, by the will of our lords and people. he bends the knee to no man, but holds out the hand of friendship to all. kings have no friends, stannis said bluntly, only subjects and enemies. and brothers, a cheerful voice called out behind her. catelyn glanced over her shoulder as lord renly's palfrey picked her way through the stumps. the younger baratheon was splendid in his green velvet doublet and satin cloak trimmed in vair. the crown of golden roses girded his temples, jade stag's head rising over his forehead, long black hair spilling out beneath, jagged chunks of black diamond studded his swordbelt, and a chain of gold and emeralds looped around his neck. renly had chosen a woman to carry his banner as well, though brienne hid face and form behind plate armor that gave no hint of her sex. atop her twelve-foot lance, the crowned stag pranced black-on-gold as the wind off the sea rippled the cloth. his brother's greeting was curt. lord renly. king renly. can that truly be you, stannis? stannis frowned. who else should it be? renly gave an easy shrug. when i saw that standard, i could not be certain. whose banner do you bear? mine own. the red-clad priestess spoke up. the king has taken for his sigil the fiery heart of the lord of light. renly seemed amused by that. all for the good. if we both use the same banner, the battle will be terribly confused. catelyn said, let us hope there will be no battle. we three share a common foe who would destroy us all. stannis studied her, unsmiling. the iron throne is mine by rights. all those who deny that are my foes. the whole of the realm denies it, brother, said renly. old men deny it with their death rattle, and unborn children deny it in their mothers' wombs. they deny it in dome and they deny it on the wall. no one wants you for their king. sorry. stannis clenched his jaw, his face taut. i swore i would never treat with you while you wore your traitor's crown. would that i had kept to that vow. this is folly, catelyn said sharply. lord tywin sits at harrenhal with twenty thousand swords. the remnants of the kingslayer's army have regrouped at the golden tooth, another lannister host gathers beneath the shadow of casterly rock, and cersei and her son hold king's landing and your precious iron throne. you each name yourself king, yet the kingdom bleeds, and no one lifts a sword to defend it but my son. renly shrugged. your son has won a few battles. i shall win the war. the lannisters can wait my pleasure. if you have proposals to make, make them, stannis said brusquely, or i will be gone. very well, said renly. i propose that you dismount, bend your knee, and swear me your allegiance. stannis choked back rage. that you shall never have. you served robert, why not me? robert was my elder brother. you are the younger. younger, bolder, and far more comely... ... and a thief and a usurper besides. renly shrugged. the targaryens called robert usurper. he seemed to be able to bear the shame. so shall i.- . this will not do. listen to yourselves! if you were sons of mine, i would bang your heads together and lock you in a bedchamber until you remembered that you were brothers. stannis frowned at her. you presume too much, lady stark. i am the rightful king, and your son no less a traitor than my brother here. his day will come as well. the naked threat fanned her fury. you are very free to name others traitor and usurper, my lord, yet how are you any different? you say you alone are the rightful king, yet it seems to me that robert had two sons. by all the laws of the seven kingdoms, prince joffrey is his rightful heir, and tommen after him... and we are all traitors, however good our reasons. renly laughed. you must forgive lady catelyn, stannis. she's come all the way down from riverrun, a long way ahorse. i fear she never saw your little letter. joffrey is not my brother's seed, stannis said bluntly. nor is tommen. they are bastards. the girl as well. all three of them abominations born of incest. would even cersei be so mad? catelyn was speechless. isn't that a sweet story, my lady? renly asked. i was camped at horn hill when lord tarly received his letter, and i must say, it took my breath away. he smiled at his brother. i had never suspected you were so clever, stannis. were it only true, you would indeed be robert's heir. were it true? do you name me a liar? can you prove any word of this fable? stannis ground his teeth. robert could never have known, catelyn thought, or cersei would have lost her head in an instant. lord stannis, she asked, if you knew the queen to be guilty of such monstrous crimes, why did you keep silent?  i did not keep silent, stannis declared. i brought my suspicions to jon arryn. rather than your own brother? my brother's regard for me was never more than dutiful, said stannis. from me, such accusations would have seemed peevish and selfserving, a means of placing myself first in the line of succession. i believed robert would be more disposed to listen if the charges came from lord arryn, whom he loved. ah, said renly. so we have the word of a dead man. do you think he died by happenstance, you purblind fool? cersei had him poisoned, for fear he would reveal her. lord jon had been gathering certain proofs- -which doubtless died with him. how inconvenient. catelyn was remembering, fitting pieces together. my sister lysa accused the queen of killing her husband in a letter she sent me at winterfell, she admitted. later, in the eyrie, she laid the murder at the feet of the queen's brother tyrion. stannis snorted. if you step in a nest of snakes, does it matter which one bites you first? all this of snakes and incest is droll, but it changes nothing. you may well have the better claim, stannis, but i still have the larger army. renly's hand slid inside his cloak. stannis saw, and reached at once for the hilt of his sword, but before he could draw steel his brother produced... a peach. would you like one, brother? renly asked, smiling. from highgarden. you've never tasted anything so sweet, i promise you. he took a bite. juice ran from the corner of his mouth. i did not come here to eat fruit. stannis was fuming. my lords! catelyn said. we ought to be hammering out the terms of an alliance, not trading taunts. a man should never refuse to taste a peach, renly said as he tossed the stone away. he may never get the chance again. life is short, stannis. remember what the starks say. winter is coming. he wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. i did not come here to be threatened, either. nor were you, renly snapped back. when i make threats, you'll know it. if truth be told, i've never liked you, stannis, but you are my own blood, and i have no wish to slay you. so if it is storm's end you want, take it... as a brother's gift. as robert once gave it to me, i give it to you. it is not yours to give. it is mine by rights. sighing, renly half turned in the saddle. what am i to do with this brother of mine, brienne? he refuses my peach, he refuses my castle, he even shunned my wedding... we both know your wedding was a mummer's farce. a year ago you were scheming to make the girl one of robert's whores. a year ago i was scheming to make the girl robert's queen, renly said, but what does it matter? the boar got robert and i got margaery. you'll be pleased to know she came to me a maid. in your bed she's like to die that way. oh, i expect i'll get a son on her within the year. pray, how many sons do you have, stannis? oh, yes-none. renly smiled innocently. as to your daughter, i understand. if my wife looked like yours, i'd send my fool to service her as well. enough! stannis roared. i will not be mocked to my face, do you hear me? i will not! he yanked his longsword from its scabbard. the steel gleamed strangely bright in the wan sunlight, now red, now yellow, now blazing white. the air around it seemed to shimmer, as if from heat. catelyn's horse whinnied and backed away a step, but brienne moved between the brothers, her own blade in hand. put up your steel! she shouted at stannis. cersei lannister is laughing herself breathless, catelyn thought wearily. stannis pointed his shining sword at his brother. i am not without mercy, thundered he who was notoriously without mercy. nor do i wish to sully lightbringer with a brother's blood. for the sake of the mother who bore us both, i will give you this night to rethink your folly, renly. strike your banners and come to me before dawn, and i will grant you storm's end and your old seat on the council and even name you my heir until a son is born to me. otherwise, i shall destroy you. renly laughed. stannis, that's a very pretty sword, i'll grant you, but i think the glow off it has ruined your eyes. look across the fields, brother. can you see all those banners? do you think a few bolts of cloth will make you king? tyrell swords will make me king. rowan and tarly and caron will make me king, with axe and mace and warhammer. tarth arrows and penrose lances, fossoway, cuy, mullendore, estermont, selmy, hightower, oakheart, crane, caswell, blackbar, morrigen, beesbury, shermer, dunn, footly... even house florent, your own wife's brothers and uncles, they will make me king. all the chivalry of the south rides with me, and that is the least part of my power. my foot is coming behind, a hundred thousand swords and spears and pikes. and you will destroy me? with what, pray? that paltry rabble i see there huddled under the castle walls? i'll call them five thousand and be generous, codfish lords and onion knights and sellswords. half of them are like to come over to me before the battle starts. you have fewer than four hundred horse, my scouts tell me-freeriders in boiled leather who will not stand an instant against armored lances. i do not care how seasoned a warrior you think you are, stannis, that host of yours won't survive the first charge of my vanguard. we shall see, brother. some of the light seemed to go out of the world when stannis slid his sword back into its scabbard. come the dawn, we shall see. i hope your new god's a merciful one, brother. stannis snorted and galloped away, disdainful. the red priestess lingered a moment behind. look to your own sins, lord renly, she said as she wheeled her horse around. catelyn and lord renly returned together to the camp where his thousands and her few waited their return. that was amusing, if not terribly profitable, he commented. i wonder where i can get a sword like that? well, doubtless loras will make me a gift of it after the battle, it grieves me that it must come to this. you have a cheerful way of grieving, said catelyn, whose distress was not feigned. do i? renly shrugged. so be it. stannis was never the most cherished of brothers, i confess. do you suppose this tale of his is true? if joffrey is the kingslayer's get- -your brother is the lawful heir. while he lives, renly admitted. though it's a fool's law, wouldn't you agree? why the oldest son, and not the best-fitted? the crown will suit me, as it never suited robert and would not suit stannis. i have it in me to be a great king, strong yet generous, clever, just, diligent, loyal to my friends and terrible to my enemies, yet capable of forgiveness, patient- -humble? catelyn supplied. renly laughed. you must allow a king some flaws, my lady. catelyn felt very tired. it had all been for nothing. the baratheon brothers would drown each other in blood while her son faced the lannisters alone, and nothing she could say or do would stop it. it is past time i went back to riverrun to close my father's eyes, she thought. that much at least i can do. i may be a poor envoy, but i am a good mourner, gods save me. their camp was well sited atop a low stony ridge that ran from north to south. it was far more orderly than the sprawling encampment on the mander, though only a quarter as large. when he'd learned of his brother's assault on storm's end, renly had split his forces, much as robb had done at the twins. his great mass of foot he had left behind at bitterbridge with his young queen, his wagons, carts, draft animals, and all his cumbersome siege machinery, while renly himself led his knights and freeriders in a swift dash east. how like his brother robert he was, even in that... only robert had always had eddard stark to temper his boldness with caution. ned would surely have prevailed upon robert to bring up his whole force, to encircle stannis and besiege the besiegers. that choice renly had denied himself in his headlong rush to come to grips with his brother. he had outdistanced his supply lines, left food and forage days behind with all his wagons and mules and oxen. he must come to battle soon, or starve. catelyn sent hal mollen to tend to their horses while she accompanied renly back to the royal pavilion at the heart of the encampment. inside the walls of green silk, his captains and lords bannermen were waiting to hear word of the parley. my brother has not changed, their young king told them as brienne unfastened his cloak and lifted the goldand-jade crown from his brow. castles and courtesies will not appease him, he must have blood. well, i am of a mind to grant his wish. your grace, i see no need for battle here, lord mathis rowan put in. the castle is strongly garrisoned and well provisioned, ser cortnay penrose is a seasoned commander, and the trebuchet has not been built that could breach the walls of storm's end. let lord stannis have his siege. he will find no joy in it, and whilst he sits cold and hungry and profitless, we will take king's landing. and have men say i feared to face stannis? only fools will say that, lord mathis argued. renly looked to the others. what say you all? i say that stannis is a danger to you, lord randyll tarly declared. leave him unblooded and he will only grow stronger, while your own power is diminished by battle. the lannisters will not be beaten in a day. by the time you are done with them, lord stannis may be as strong as you... or stronger. others chorused their agreement. the king looked pleased. we shall fight, then. i have failed robb as i failed ned, catelyn thought. my lord, she announced. if you are set on battle, my purpose here is done. i ask your leave to return to riverrun. you do not have it. renly seated himself on a camp chair. she stiffened. i had hoped to help you make a peace, my lord. i will not help you make a war. renly gave a shrug. i daresay we'll prevail without your five-an-twenty, my lady. i do not mean for you to take part in the battle, only to watch it. i was at the whispering wood, my lord. i have seen enough butchery. i came here an envoy- and an envoy you shall leave, renly said, but wiser than you came. you shall see what befalls rebels with your own eyes, so your son can hear it from your own lips. we'll keep you safe, never fear. he turned away to make his dispositions. lord mathis, you shall lead the center of my main battle. bryce, you'll have the left. the right is mine. lord estermont, you shall command the reserve. i shall not fail you, your grace, lord estermont replied. lord mathis rowan spoke up. who shall have the van? your grace, said ser jon fossoway, i beg the honor. beg all you like, said ser guyard the green, by rights it should be one of the seven who strikes the first blow. it takes more than a pretty cloak to charge a shield wall, randyll tarly announced. i was leading mace tyrell's van when you were still sucking on your mother's teat, guyard. a clamor filled the pavilion, as other men loudly set forth their claims. the knights of summer, catelyn thought. renly raised a hand. enough, my lords. if i had a dozen vans, all of you should have one, but the greatest glory by rights belongs to the greatest knight. ser loras shall strike the first blow. with a glad heart, your grace. the knight of flowers knelt before the king. grant me your blessing, and a knight to ride beside me with your banner. let the stag and rose go to battle side by side. renly glanced about him. brienne. your grace? she was still armored in her blue steel, though she had taken off her helm. the crowded tent was hot, and sweat plastered limp yellow hair to her broad, homely face. my place is at your side. i am your sworn shield... one of seven, the king reminded her. never fear, four of your fellows will be with me in the fight. brienne dropped to her knees. if i must part from your grace, grant me the honor of arming you for battle. catelyn heard someone snigger behind her. she loves him, poor thing, she thought sadly. she'd play his squire just to touch him, and never care how great a fool they think her. granted, renly said. now leave me, all of you. even kings must rest before a battle. my lord, catelyn said, there was a small sept in the last village we passed. if you will not permit me to depart for riverrun, grant me leave to go there and pray. as you will. ser robar, give lady stark safe escort to this sept... but see that she returns to us by dawn. you might do well to pray yourself, catelyn added. for victory? for wisdom. renly laughed. loras, stay and help me pray. it's been so long i've quite forgotten how. as to the rest of you, i want every man in place by first light, armed, armored, and horsed. we shall give stannis a dawn he will not soon forget. dusk was falling when catelyn left the pavilion. ser robar royce fell in beside her. she knew him slightly-one of bronze yohn's sons, comely in a rough-hewn way, a tourney warrior of some renown. renly had gifted him with a rainbow cloak and a suit of blood red armor, and named him one of his seven. you are a long way from the vale, ser, she told him. and you far from winterfell, my lady. i know what brought me here, but why have you come? this is not your battle, no more than it is mine. i made it my battle when i made renly my king. the royces are bannermen to house arryn. my lord father owes lady lysa fealty, as does his heir. a second son must find glory where he can. ser robar shrugged. a man grows weary of tourneys. he could not be older than one-and-twenty, catelyn thought, of an age with his king... but her king, her robb, had more wisdom at fifteen than this youth had ever learned. or so she prayed. in catelyn's small corner of the camp, shadd was slicing carrots into a kettle, hal mollen was dicing with three of his winterfell men, and lucas blackwood sat sharpening his dagger. lady stark, lucas said when he saw her, mollen says it is to be battle at dawn. hal has the truth of it, she answered. and a loose tongue as well, it would seem. do we fight or flee? we pray, lucas, she answered him. we pray. it was full dark before they found the village. catelyn found herself wondering if the place had a name. if so, its people had taken that knowledge with them when they fled, along with all they owned, down to the candles in the sept. ser wendel lit a torch and led her through the low door. within, the seven walls were cracked and crooked. god is one, septon osmynd had taught her when she was a girl, with seven aspects, as the sept is a single building, with seven walls. the wealthy septs of the cities had statues of the seven and an altar to each. in winterfell, septon chayle hung carved masks from each wall. here catelyn found only rough charcoal drawings. ser wendel set the torch in a sconce near the door, and left to wait outside with robar royce. catelyn studied the faces. the father was bearded, as ever. the mother smiled, loving and protective. the warrior had his sword sketched in beneath his face, the smith his hammer. the maid was beautiful, the crone wizened and wise. and the seventh face... the stranger was neither male nor female, yet both, ever the outcast, the wanderer from far places, less and more than human, unknown and unknowable. here the face was a black oval, a shadow with stars for eyes. it made catelyn uneasy. she would get scant comfort there. she knelt before the mother. my lady, look down on this battle with a mother's eyes. they are all sons, every one. spare them if you can, and spare my own sons as well. watch over robb and bran and rickon. would that i were with them. a crack ran down through the mother's left eye. it made her look as if she were crying. catelyn could hear ser wendel' s booming voice, and now and again ser robar' s quiet answers, as they talked of the coming battle. otherwise the night was still. not even a cricket could be heard, and the gods kept their silence. did your old gods ever answer you, ned? she wondered. when you knelt before your heart tree, did they hear you? flickering torchlight danced across the walls, making the faces seem half -alive, twisting them, changing them. the statues in the great septs of the cities wore the faces the stonemasons had given them, but these charcoal scratchings were so crude they might be anyone. the father's face made her think of her own father, dying in his bed at riverrun. the warrior was renly and stannis, robb and robert, jaime lannister and jon snow. she even glimpsed arya in those lines, just for an instant. then a gust of wind through the door made the torch sputter, and the semblance was gone, washed away in orange glare. the smoke was making her eyes burn. she rubbed at them with the heels of her scarred hands. when she looked up at the mother again, it was her own mother she saw. lady minisa tully had died in childbed, trying to give lord hoster a second son. the baby had perished with her, and afterward some of the life had gone out of father. she was always so calm, catelyn thought, remembering her mother's soft hands, her warm smile. if she had lived, how different our lives might have been. she wondered what lady minisa would make of her eldest daughter, kneeling here before her. i have come so many thousands of leagues, and for what? who have i served? i have lost my daughters, robb does not want me, and bran and rickon must surely think me a cold and unnatural mother. i was not even with ned when he died... her head swam, and the sept seemed to move around her. the shadows swayed and shifted, furtive animals racing across the cracked white walls. catelyn had not eaten today. perhaps that had been unwise. she told herself that there had been no time, but the truth was that food had lost its savor in a world without ned. when they took his head off, they killed me too. behind her the torch spit, and suddenly it seemed to her that it was her sister's face on the wall, though the eyes were harder than she recalled, not lysa's eyes but cersei's. cersei is a mother too. no matter who fathered those children, she felt them kick inside her, brought them forth with her pain and blood, nursed them at her breast. if they are truly jaime's... does cersei pray to you too, my lady? catelyn asked the mother. she could see the proud, cold, lovely features of the lannister queen etched upon the wall. the crack was still there; even cersei could weep for her children. each of the seven embodies all of the seven, septon osmynd had told her once. there was as much beauty in the crone as in the maiden, and the mother could be fiercer than the warrior when her children were in danger. yes... she had seen enough of robert baratheon at winterfell to know that the king did not regard joffrey with any great warmth. if the boy was truly jaime's seed, robert would have put him to death along with his mother, and few would have condemned him. bastards were common enough, but incest was a monstrous sin to both old gods and new, and the children of such wickedness were named abominations in sept and godswood alike. the dragon kings had wed brother to sister, but they were the blood of old valyria where such practices had been common, and like their dragons the targaryens answered to neither gods nor men. ned must have known, and lord arryn before him. small wonder that the queen had killed them both. would i do any less for my own? catelyn clenched her hands, feeling the tightness in her scarred fingers where the assassin's steel had cut to the bone as she fought to save her son. bran knows too, she whispered, lowering her head. gods be good, he must have seen something, heard something, that was why they tried to kill him in his bed. lost and weary, catelyn stark gave herself over to her gods. she knelt before the smith, who fixed things that were broken, and asked that he give her sweet bran his protection. she went to the maid and beseeched her to lend her courage to arya and sansa, to guard them in their innocence. to the father, she prayed for justice, the strength to seek it and the wisdom to know it, and she asked the warrior to keep robb strong and shield him in his battles. lastly she turned to the crone, whose statues often showed her with a lamp in one hand. guide me, wise lady, she prayed. show me the path i must walk, and do not let me stumble in the dark places that lie ahead. finally there were footsteps behind her, and a noise at the door. my lady, ser robar said gently, pardon, but our time is at an end. we must be back before the dawn breaks. catelyn rose stiffly. her knees ached, and she would have given much for a featherbed and a pillow just then. thank you, ser. i am ready. they rode in silence through sparse woodland where the trees leaned drunkenly away from the sea. the nervous whinny of horses and the clank of steel guided them back to renly's camp. the long ranks of man and horse were armored in darkness, as black as if the smith had hammered night itself into steel. there were banners to her right, banners to her left, and rank on rank of banners before her, but in the predawn gloom, neither colors nor sigils could be discerned. a grey army, catelyn thought. grey men on grey horses beneath grey banners. as they sat their horses waiting, renly's shadow knights pointed their lances upward, so she rode through a forest of tall naked trees, bereft of leaves and life. where storm's end stood was only a deeper darkness, a wall of black through which no stars could shine, but she could see torches moving across the fields where lord stannis had made his camp. the candles within renly's pavilion made the shimmering silken walls seem to glow, transforming the great tent into a magical castle alive with emerald light. two of the rainbow guard stood sentry at the door to the royal pavilion. the green light shone strangely against the purple plums of ser parmen's surcoat, and gave a sickly hue to the sunflowers that covered every inch of ser emmon's enameled yellow plate. long silken plumes flew from their helms, and rainbow cloaks draped their shoulders. within, catelyn found brienne armoring the king for battle while the lords tarly and rowan spoke of dispositions and tactics. it was pleasantly warm inside, the heat shimmering off the coals in a dozen small iron braziers. i must speak with you, your grace, she said, granting him a king's style for once, anything to make him heed her. in a moment, lady catelyn, renly replied. brienne fit backplate to breastplate over his quilted tunic. the king's armor was a deep green, the green of leaves in a summer wood, so dark it drank the candlelight. gold highlights gleamed from inlay and fastenings like distant fires in that wood, winking every time he moved. pray continue, lord mathis. your grace, mathis rowan said with a sideways glance at catelyn. as i was saying, our battles are well drawn up. why wait for daybreak? sound the advance. and have it said that i won by treachery, with an unchivalrous attack? dawn was the chosen hour. chosen by stannis, randyll tarly pointed out. he'd have us charge into the teeth of the rising sun. we'll be half-blind. only until first shock, renly said confidently. ser loras will break them, and after that it will be chaos. brienne tightened green leather straps and buckled golden buckles. when my brother falls, see that no insult is done to his corpse. he is my own blood, i will not have his head paraded about on a spear. and if he yields? lord tarly asked. yields? lord rowan laughed. when mace tyre 11 laid siege to storm's end, stannis ate rats rather than open his gates. well i remember. renly lifted his chin to allow brienne to fasten his gorget in place. near the end, ser gawen wylde and three of his knights tried to steal out a postern gate to surrender. stannis caught them and ordered them flung from the walls with catapults. i can still see gawen's face as they strapped him down. he had been our master-at-arms. lord rowan appeared puzzled. no men were hurled from the walls. i would surely remember that. maester cressen told stannis that we might be forced to eat our dead, and there was no gain in flinging away good meat. renly pushed back his hair. brienne bound it with a velvet tie and pulled a padded cap down over his ears, to cushion the weight of his helm. thanks to the onion knight we were never reduced to dining on corpses, but it was a close thing. too close for ser gawen, who died in his cell. your grace. catelyn had waited patiently, but time grew short. you promised me a word. renly nodded. see to your battles, my lords... oh, and if barristan selmy is at my brother's side, i want him spared. there's been no word of ser barristan since joffrey cast him out, lord rowan objected. i know that old man. he needs a king to guard, or who is he? yet he never came to me, and lady catelyn says he is not with robb stark at riverrun. where else but with stannis? as you say, your grace. no harm will come to him. the lords bowed deeply and departed. say your say, lady stark, renly said. brienne swept his cloak over his broad shoulders. it was cloth-of -gold, heavy, with the crowned stag of baratheon picked out in flakes of jet. the lannisters tried to kill my son bran. a thousand times i have asked myself why. your brother gave me my answer. there was a hunt the day he fell. robert and ned and most of the other men rode out after boar, but jaime lannister remained at winterfell, as did the queen. renly was not slow to take the implication. so you believe the boy caught them at their incest... i beg you, my lord, grant me leave to go to your brother stannis and tell him what i suspect. to what end? robb will set aside his crown if you and your brother will do the same, she said, hoping it was true. she would make it true if she must; robb would listen to her, even if his lords would not. let the three of you call for a great council, such as the realm has not seen for a hundred years. we will send to winterfell, so bran may tell his tale and all men may know the lannisters for the true usurpers. let the assembled lords of the seven kingdoms choose who shall rule them. renly laughed. tell me, my lady, do direwolves vote on who should lead the pack? brienne brought the king's gauntlets and greathelm, crowned with golden antlers that would add a foot and a half to his height. the time for talk is done. now we see who is stronger. renly pulled a lobstered green-and-gold gauntlet over his left hand, while brienne knelt to buckle on his belt, heavy with the weight of longsword and dagger. i beg you in the name of the mother, catelyn began when a sudden gust of wind flung open the door of the tent. she thought she glimpsed movement, but when she turned her head, it was only the king's shadow shifting against the silken walls. she heard renly begin a jest, his shadow moving, lifting its sword, black on green, candles guttering, shivering, something was queer, wrong, and then she saw renly's sword still in its scabbard, sheathed still, but the shadowsword... cold, said renly in a small puzzled voice, a heartbeat before the steel of his gorget parted like cheesecloth beneath the shadow of a blade that was not there. he had time to make a small thick gasp before the blood came gushing out of his throat. your gr-no! cried brienne the blue when she saw that evil flow, sounding as scared as any little girl. the king stumbled into her arms, a sheet of blood creeping down the front of his armor, a dark red tide that drowned his green and gold. more candles guttered out. renly tried to speak, but he was choking on his own blood. his legs collapsed, and only brienne's strength held him up. she threw back her head and screamed, wordless in her anguish. the shadow something dark and evil had happened here, she knew, something that she could not begin to understand. renly never cast that shadow death came in that door and blew the life out of him as swift as the wind snuffed out his candles. only a few instants passed before robar royce and emmon cuy came bursting in, though it felt like half the night. a pair of men-at-arms crowded in behind with torches. when they saw renly in brienne's arms, and her drenched with the king's blood, ser robar gave a cry of horror. wicked woman! screamed ser emmon, he of the sunflowered steel. away from him, you vile creature! gods be good, brienne, why? asked ser robar. brienne looked up from her king's body. the rainbow cloak that hung from her shoulders had turned red where the king's blood had soaked into the cloth. i... i... you'll die for this. ser emmon snatched up a long-handled battleaxe from the weapons piled near the door. you'll pay for the king's life with your own! no! catelyn stark screamed, finding her voice at last, but it was too late, the blood madness was on them, and they rushed forward with shouts that drowned her softer words. brienne moved faster than catelyn would have believed. her own sword was not to hand, so she snatched renly's from its scabbard and raised it to catch emmon's axe on the downswing. a spark flashed bluewhite as steel met steel with a rending crash, and brienne sprang to her feet, the body of the dead king thrust rudely aside. ser emmon stumbled over it as he tried to close, and brienne's blade sheared through the wooden haft to send his axehead spinning. another man thrust a flaming torch at her back, but the rainbow cloak was too sodden with blood to burn. brienne spun and cut, and torch and hand went flying. flames crept across the carpet. the maimed man began to scream. ser emmon dropped the axe and fumbled for his sword. the second man-at-arms lunged, brienne parried, and their swords danced and clanged against each other. when emmon cuy came wading back in, brienne was forced to retreat, yet somehow she held them both at bay. on the ground, renly's head rolled sickeningly to one side, and a second mouth yawned wide, the blood coming from him now in slow pulses. ser robar had hung back, uncertain, but now he was reaching for his hilt. robar, no, listen. catelyn seized his arm. you do her wrong, it was not her. help her! hear me, it was stannis. the name was on her lips before she could think how it got there, but as she said it, she knew that it was true. i swear it, you know me, it was stannis killed him. the young rainbow knight stared at this madwoman with pale and frightened eyes. stannis? how? i do not know. sorcery, some dark magic, there was a shadow, a shadow her own voice sounded wild and crazed to her, but the words poured out in a rush as the blades continued to clash behind her. a shadow with a sword, i swear it, i saw. are you blind, the girl loved him! help her! she glanced back, saw the second guardsman fall, his blade dropping from limp fingers. outside there was shouting. more angry men would be bursting in on them any instant, she knew. she is innocent, robar. you have my word, on my husband's grave and my honor as a stark!  that resolved him. i will hold them, ser robar said. get her away. he turned and went out. the fire had reached the wall and was creeping up the side of the tent. ser emmon was pressing brienne hard, him in his enameled yellow steel and her in wool. he had forgotten catelyn, until the iron brazier came crashing into the back of his head. helmed as he was, the blow did no lasting harm, but it sent him to his knees. brienne, with me, catelyn commanded. the girl was not slow to see the chance. a slash, and the green silk parted. they stepped out into darkness and the chill of dawn. loud voices came from the other side of the pavilion. this way, catelyn urged, and slowly. we must not run, or they will ask why. walk easy, as if nothing were amiss. brienne thrust her sword blade through her belt and fell in beside catelyn. the night air smelled of rain. behind them, the king's pavilion was well ablaze, flames rising high against the dark. no one made any move to stop them. men rushed past them, shouting of fire and murder and sorcery. others stood in small groups and spoke in low voices. a few were praying, and one young squire was on his knees, sobbing openly. renly's battles were already coming apart as the rumors spread from mouth to mouth. the nightfires had burned low, and as the east began to lighten the immense mass of storm's end emerged like a dream of stone while wisps of pale mist raced across the field, flying from the sun on wings of wind. morning ghosts, she had heard old nan call them once, spirits returning to their graves. and renly one of them now, gone like his brother robert, like her own dear ned. i never held him but as he died, brienne said quietly as they walked through the spreading chaos. her voice sounded as if she might break at any instant. he was laughing one moment, and suddenly the blood was everywhere... my lady, i do not understand. did you see, did you...? i saw a shadow. i thought it was renly's shadow at the first, but it was his brother's. lord stannis? i felt him. it makes no sense, i know. it made sense enough for brienne. i will kill him, the tall homely girl declared. with my lord's own sword, i will kill him. i swear it. i swear it. i swear it. hal mollen and the rest of her escort were waiting with the horses. ser wendel manderly was all in a lather to know what was happening. my lady, the camp has gone mad, he blurted when he saw them. lord renly, is he- he stopped suddenly, staring at brienne and the blood that drenched her. dead, but not by our hands. the battle- hal mo lien began. there will be no battle. catelyn mounted, and her escort formed up about her, with ser wendel to her left and ser perwyn frey on her right. brienne, we brought mounts enough for twice our number. choose one, and come with us. i have my own horse, my lady. and my armor- leave them. we must be well away before they think to look for us. we were both with the king when he was killed. that will not be forgotten. wordless, brienne turned and did as she was bid. ride, catelyn commanded her escort when they were all ahorse. if any man tries to stop us, cut him down. as the long fingers of dawn fanned across the fields, color was returning to the world. where grey men had sat grey horses armed with shadow spears, the points often thousand lances now glinted silverly cold, and on the myriad flapping banners catelyn saw the blush of red and pink and orange, the richness of blues and browns, the blaze of gold and yellow. all the power of storm's end and highgarden, the power that had been renly's an hour ago. they belong to stannis now, she realized, even if they do not know it themselves yet. where else are they to turn, if not to the last baratheon? stannis has won all with a single evil stroke. i am the rightful king, he had declared, his jaw clenched hard as iron, and your son no less a traitor than my brother here. his day will come as well. a chill went through her. two days ride from riverrun, a scout spied them watering their horses beside a muddy steam. catelyn had never been so glad to see the twin tower badge of house frey. when she asked him to lead them to her uncle, he said, the blackfish is gone west with the king, my lady. martyn rivers commands the outriders in his stead. i see. she had met rivers at the twins; a baseborn son of lord walder frey, half brother to ser perwyn. it did not surprise her to learn that robb had struck at the heart of lannister power; clearly he had been contemplating just that when he sent her away to treat with renly. where is rivers now? his camp is two hours ride, my lady. take us to him, she commanded. brienne helped her back into her saddle, and they set out at once. have you come from bitterbridge, my lady? the scout asked. no. she had not dared. with renly dead, catelyn had been uncertain of the reception she might receive from his young widow and her protectors. instead she had ridden through the heart of the war, through fertile riverlands turned to blackened desert by the fury of the lannisters, and each night her scouts brought back tales that made her ill. lord renly is slain, she added. we'd hoped that tale was some lannister lie, or- would that it were. my brother commands in riverrun? yes, my lady. his grace left ser edmure to hold riverrun and guard his rear. gods grant him the strength to do so, catelyn thought. and the wisdom as well. is there word from robb in the west? you have not heard? the man seemed surprised. his grace won a great victory at oxcross. ser stafford lannister is dead, his host scattered. ser wendel manderly gave a whoop of pleasure, but catelyn only nodded. tomorrow's trials concerned her more than yesterday's triumphs. martyn rivers had made his camp in the shell of a shattered holdfast, beside a roofless stable and a hundred fresh graves. he went to one knee when catelyn dismounted. well met, my lady. your brother charged us to keep an eye out for your party, and escort you back to riverrun in all haste should we come upon you. catelyn scarce liked the sound of that. is it my father? no, my lady. lord hoster is unchanged. rivers was a ruddy man with scant resemblance to his half brothers. it is only that we feared you might chance upon lannister scouts. lord tywin has left harrenhal and marches west with all his power. rise, she told rivers, frowning. stannis baratheon would soon be on the march as well, gods help them all. how long until lord tywin is upon us? three days, perhaps four, it is hard to know. we have eyes out along all the roads, but it would be best not to linger. nor did they. rivers broke his camp quickly and saddled up beside her, and they set off again, near fifty strong now, flying beneath the direwolf, the leaping trout, the twin towers. her men wanted to hear more of robb's victory at oxcross, and rivers obliged. there's a singer come to riverrun, calls himself rymund the rhymer, he's made a song of the fight. doubtless you'll hear it sung tonight, my lady. 'wolf in the night' this rymund calls it. he went on to tell how the remnants of ser stafford's host had fallen back on lannisport. without siege engines there was no way to storm casterly rock, so the young wolf was paying the lannisters back in kind for the devastation they'd inflicted on the riverlands. lords karstark and glover were raiding along the coast, lady mormont had captured thousands of cattle and was driving them back toward riverrun, while the greatjon had seized the gold mines at castamere, nunn's deep, and the pendric hills. ser wendel laughed. nothing's more like to bring a lannister running than a threat to his gold. how did the king ever take the tooth? ser perwyn frey asked his bastard brother. that's a hard strong keep, and it commands the hill road.  he never took it. he slipped around it in the night. it's said the direwolf showed him the way, that grey wind of his. the beast sniffed out a goat track that wound down a defile and up along beneath a ridge, a crooked and stony way, yet wide enough for men riding single file. the lannisters in their watchtowers got not so much a glimpse of them. rivers lowered his voice. there's some say that after the battle, the king cut out stafford lannister's heart and fed it to the wolf. i would not believe such tales, catelyn said sharply. my son is no savage. as you say, my lady. still, it's no more than the beast deserved. that is no common wolf, that one. the greatjon's been heard to say that the old gods of the north sent those direwolves to your children. catelyn remembered the day when her boys had found the pups in the late summer snows. there had been five, three male and two female for the five trueborn children of house stark... and a sixth, white of fur and red of eye, for ned's bastard son jon snow. no common wolves, she thought. no indeed. that night as they made their camp, brienne sought out her tent. my lady, you are safely back among your own now, a day's ride from your brother's castle. give me leave to go. catelyn should not have been surprised. the homely young woman had kept to herself all through their journey, spending most of her time with the horses, brushing out their coats and pulling stones from their shoes. she had helped shadd cook and clean game as well, and soon proved that she could hunt as well as any. any task catelyn asked her to turn her hand to, brienne had performed deftly and without complaint, and when she was spoken to she answered politely, but she never chattered, nor wept, nor laughed. she had ridden with them every day and slept among them every night without ever truly becoming one of them. it was the same when she was with renly, catelyn thought. at the feast, in the melee, even in renly's pavilion with her brothers of the rainbow guard. there are walls around this one higher than winterfell's. if you left us, where would you go? catelyn asked her. back, brienne said. to storm's end. alone. it was not a question. the broad face was a pool of still water, giving no hint of what might live in the depths below. yes. you mean to kill stannis. brienne closed her thick callused fingers around the hilt of her sword. the sword that had been his. i swore a vow. three times i swore. you heard me. i did, catelyn admitted. the girl had kept the rainbow cloak when she discarded the rest of her bloodstained clothing, she knew. brienne's own things had been left behind during their flight, and she had been forced to clothe herself in odd bits of ser wendel's spare garb, since no one else in their party had garments large enough to fit her. vows should be kept, i agree, but stannis has a great host around him, and his own guards sworn to keep him safe. i am not afraid of his guards. i am as good as any of them. i should never have fled. is that what troubles you, that some fool might call you craven? she sighed. renly's death was no fault of yours. you served him valiantly, but when you seek to follow him into the earth, you serve no one. she stretched out a hand, to give what comfort a touch could give. i know how hard it is- brienne shook off her hand. no one knows. you're wrong, catelyn said sharply. every morning, when i wake, i remember that ned is gone. i have no skill with swords, but that does not mean that i do not dream of riding to king's landing and wrapping my hands around cersei lannister's white throat and squeezing until her face turns black. the beauty raised her eyes, the only part of her that was truly beautiful. if you dream that, why would you seek to hold me back? is it because of what stannis said at the parley? was it? catelyn glanced across the camp. two men were walking sentry, spears in hand. i was taught that good men must fight evil in this world, and renly's death was evil beyond all doubt. yet i was also taught that the gods make kings, not the swords of men. if stannis is our rightful king- he's not. robert was never the rightful king either, even renly said as much. jaime lannister murdered the rightful king, after robert killed his lawful heir on the trident. where were the gods then? the gods don't care about men, no more than kings care about peasants. a good king does care. lord renly... his grace, he... he would have been the best king, my lady, he was so good, he... he is gone, brienne, she said, as gently as she could. stannis and joffrey remain... and so does my son. he wouldn't... you'd never make a peace with stannis, would you? bend the knee? you wouldn't... i will tell you true, brienne. i do not know. my son may be a king, but i am no queen ... only a mother who would keep her children safe, however she could. i am not made to be a mother. i need to fight. then fight... but for the living, not the dead. renly's enemies are robb's enemies as well. brienne stared at the ground and shuffled her feet. i do not know your son, my lady. she looked up. i could serve you. if you would have me. catelyn was startled. why me? the question seemed to trouble brienne. you helped me. in the pavilion... when they thought that i had... that i had...  you were innocent. even so, you did not have to do that. you could have let them kill me. i was nothing to you. perhaps i did not want to be the only one who knew the dark truth of what had happened there, catelyn thought. brienne, i have taken many wellborn ladies into my service over the years, but never one like you. i am no battle commander. no, but you have courage. not battle courage perhaps but... i don't know... a kind of woman's courage. and i think, when the time comes, you will not try and hold me back. promise me that. that you will not hold me back from stannis. catelyn could still hear stannis saying that robb's turn too would come in time. it was like a cold breath on the back of her neck. when the time comes, i will not hold you back. the tall girl knelt awkwardly, unsheathed renly's longsword, and laid it at her feet. then i am yours, my lady. your liege man, or... whatever you would have me be. i will shield your back and keep your counsel and give my life for yours, if need be. i swear it by the old gods and the new. and i vow that you shall always have a place by my hearth and meat and mead at my table, and pledge to ask no service of you that might bring you into dishonor. i swear it by the old gods and the new. arise. as she clasped the other woman's hands between her own, catelyn could not help but smile. how many times did i watch ned accept a man's oath of service- she wondered what he would think if he could see her now. they forded the red fork late the next day, upstream of riverrun where the river made a wide loop and the waters grew muddy and shallow. the crossing was guarded by a mixed force of archers and pikemen wearing the eagle badge of the mallisters. when they saw catelyn' s banners, they emerged from behind their sharpened stakes and sent a man over from the far bank to lead her party across. slow and careful like, milady, he warned as he took the bridle of her horse. we've planted iron spikes under the water, y'see, and there's caltrops scattered among them rocks there. it's the same on all the fords, by your brother's command. edmure thinks to fight here. the realization gave her a queasy feeling in the bowels, but she held her tongue. between the red fork and the tumblestone, they joined a stream of smallfolk making for the safety of riverrun. some were driving animals before them, others pulling wayns, but they made way as catelyn rode past, and cheered her with cries of tully! or stark! haifa mile from the castle, she passed through a large encampment where the scarlet banner of the blackwoods waved above the lord's tent. lucas took his leave of her there, to seek out his father, lord tytos. the rest rode on. catelyn spied a second camp strung out along the bank north of the tumblestone, familiar standards flapping in the wind-marq piper's dancing maiden, darry's plowman, the twining red- and-white snakes of the paeges. they were all her father's bannermen, lords of the trident. most had left riverrun before she had, to defend their own lands. if they were here again, it could only mean that edmure had called them back. gods save us, it's true, he means to offer battle to lord tywin. something dark was dangling against the walls of riverrun, catelyn saw from a distance. when she rode close, she saw dead men hanging from the battlements, slumped at the ends of long ropes with hempen nooses tight around their necks, their faces swollen and black. the crows had been at them, but their crimson cloaks still showed bright against the sandstone walls. they have hanged some lannisters, hal mollen observed. a pretty sight, ser wendel manderly said cheerfully. our friends have begun without us, perwyn frey jested. the others laughed, all but brienne, who gazed up at the row of bodies unblinking, and neither spoke nor smiled. if they have slain the kings layer, then my daughters are dead as well. catelyn spurred her horse to a canter. hal mollen and robin flint raced past at a gallop, halooing to the gatehouse. the guards on the walls had doubtless spied her banners some time ago, for the portcullis was up as they approached. edmure rode out from the castle to meet her, surrounded by three of her father's sworn men- great-bellied ser desmond grell the master-atarms, utherydes wayn the steward, and ser robin ryger, riverrun's big bald captain of guards. they were all three of an age with lord hoster, men who had spent their lives in her father's service. old men, catelyn realized. edmure wore a blue-and-red cloak over a tunic embroidered with silver fish. from the look of him, he had not shaved since she rode south; his beard was a fiery bush. cat, it is good to have you safely back. when we heard of renly's death, we feared for your life. and lord tywin is on the march as well. so i am told. how fares our father? one day he seems stronger, the next he shook his head. he's asked for you. i did not know what to tell him. i will go to him soon, she vowed. has there been word from storm's end since renly died? or from bitterbridge? no ravens came to men on the road, and catelyn was anxious to know what had happened behind her. nothing from bitterbridge. from storm's end, three birds from the castellan, ser cortnay penrose, all carrying the same plea. stannis has him surrounded by land and sea. he offers his allegiance to whatsoever king will break the siege. he fears for the boy, he says. what boy would that be, do you know? edric storm, brienne told them. robert's bastard son. edmure looked at her curiously. stannis has sworn that the garrison might go free, unharmed, provided they yield the castle within the fortnight and deliver the boy into his hands, but ser cortnay will not consent. he risks all for a baseborn boy whose blood is not even his own, catelyn thought. did you send him an answer? edmure shook his head. why, when we have neither help nor hope to offer? and stannis is no enemy of ours. ser robin ryger spoke. my lady, can you tell us the manner of lord renly's death? the tales we've heard have been queer. cat, her brother said, some say you killed renly. others claim it was some southron woman. his glance lingered on brienne. my king was murdered, the girl said quietly, and not by lady catelyn. i swear it on my sword, by the gods old and new. this is brienne of tarth, the daughter of lord selwyn the evenstar, who served in renly's rainbow guard, catelyn told them. brienne, i am honored to acquaint you with my brother ser edmure tully, heir to riverrun. his steward utherydes wayn. ser robin ryger and ser desmond grell. honored, said ser desmond. the others echoed him. the girl flushed, embarrassed even at this commonplace courtesy. if edmure thought her a curious sort of lady, at least he had the grace not to say so. brienne was with renly when he was killed, as was i, said catelyn, but we had no part in his death. she did not care to speak of the shadow, here in the open with men all around, so she waved a hand at the bodies. who are these men you've hanged? edmure glanced up uncomfortably. they came with ser cleos when he brought the queen's answer to our peace offer. catelyn was shocked. you've killed envoys? false envoys, edmure declared. they pledged me their peace and surrendered their weapons, so i allowed them freedom of the castle, and for three nights they ate my meat and drank my mead whilst i talked with ser cleos. on the fourth night, they tried to free the kingslayer. he pointed up. that big brute killed two guards with naught but those ham hands of his, caught them by the throats and smashed their skulls together while that skinny lad beside him was opening lannister's cell with a bit of wire, gods curse him. the one on the end was some sort of damned mummer. he used my own voice to command that the river gate be opened. the guardsmen swear to it, enger and delp and long lew, all three. if you ask me, the man sounded nothing like me, and yet the oafs were raising the portcullis all the same. this was the imp's work, catelyn suspected; it stank of the same sort of cunning he had displayed at the eyrie. once, she would have named tyrion the least dangerous of the lannisters. now she was not so certain. how is it you caught them? ah, as it happened, i was not in the castle. i'd crossed the tumblestone to, ah... you were whoring or wenching. get on with the tale. edmure's cheeks flamed as red as his beard. it was the hour before dawn, and i was only then returning. when long lew saw my boat and recognized me, he finally thought to wonder who was standing below barking commands, and raised a cry. tell me the kingslayer was retaken. yes, though not easily. jaime got hold of a sword, slew poul pernford and ser desmond's squire myles, and wounded delp so badly that maester vyman fears he'll soon die as well. it was a bloody mess. at the sound of steel, some of the other red cloaks rushed to join him, barehand or no. i hanged those beside the four who freed him, and threw the rest in the dungeons. jaime too. we'll have no more escapes from that one. he's down in the dark this time, chained hand and foot and bolted to the wall. and cleos frey? he swears he knew naught of the plot. who can say? the man is half lannister, half frey, and all liar. i put him in jaime's old tower cell. you say he brought terms? if you can call them that. you'll like them no more than i did, i promise. can we hope for no help from the south, lady stark? asked utherydes wayn, her father's steward. this charge of incest... lord tywin does not suffer such slights lightly. he will seek to wash the stain from his daughter's name with the blood of her accuser, lord stannis must see that. he has no choice but to make common cause with us. stannis has made common cause with a power greater and darker. let us speak of these matters later. catelyn trotted over the drawbridge, putting the grisly row of dead lannisters behind her. her brother kept pace. as they rode out into the bustle of riverrun's upper bailey, a naked toddler ran in front of the horses. catelyn jerked her reins hard to avoid him, glancing about in dismay. hundreds of smallfolk had been admitted to the castle, and allowed to erect crude shelters against the walls. their children were everywhere underfoot, and the yard teemed with their cows, sheep, and chickens. who are all these folk? my people, edmure answered. they were afraid. only my sweet brother would crowd all these useless mouths into a castle that might soon be under siege. catelyn knew that edmure had a soft heart; sometimes she thought his head was even softer. she loved him for it, yet still... can robb be reached by raven? he's in the field, my lady, ser desmond replied. the bird would have no way to find him. utherydes wayn coughed. before he left us, the young king instructed us to send you on to the twins upon your return, lady stark. he asks that you learn more of lord walder's daughters, to help him select his bride when the time comes. we'll provide you with fresh mounts and provisions, her brother promised. you'll want to refresh yourself before- i'll want to stay, catelyn said, dismounting. she had no intention of leaving riverrun and her dying father to pick robb's wife for him. robb wants me safe, i cannot fault him for that, but his pretext is growing threadbare. boy, she called, and an urchin from the stables ran out to take the reins of her horse. edmure swung down from his saddle. he was a head taller than she was, but he would always be her little brother. cat, he said unhappily, lord tywin is coming- he is making for the west, to defend his own lands. if we close our gates and shelter behind the walls, we can watch him pass with safety. this is tully land, edmure declared. if tywin lannister thinks to cross it unbloodied, i mean to teach him a hard lesson. the same lesson you taught his son? her brother could be stubborn as river rock when his pride was touched, but neither of them was likely to forget how ser jaime had cut edmure's host to bloody pieces the last time he had offered battle. we have nothing to gain and everything to lose by meeting lord tywin in the field, catelyn said tactfully. the yard is not the place to discuss my battle plans. as you will. where shall we go? her brother's face darkened. for a moment she thought he was about to lose his temper with her, but finally he snapped, the godswood. if you will insist. she followed him along a gallery to the godswood gate. edmure's anger had always been a sulky, sullen thing. catelyn was sorry she had wounded him, but the matter was too important for her to concern herself with his pride. when they were alone beneath the trees, edmure turned to face her. you do not have the strength to meet the lannisters in the field, she said bluntly. when all my strength is marshaled, i should have eight thousand foot and three thousand horse, edmure said. which means lord tywin will have near twice your numbers. robb's won his battles against worse odds, edmure replied, and i have a plan. you've forgotten roose bolton. lord tywin defeated him on the green fork, but failed to pursue. when lord tywin went to harrenhal, bolton took the ruby ford and the crossroads. he has ten thousand men. i've sent word to helman tallhart to join him with the garrison robb left at the twins- edmure, robb left those men to hold the twins and make certain lord walder keeps faith with us. he has, edmure said stubbornly. the freys fought bravely in the whispering wood, and old ser stevron died at oxcross, we hear. ser ryman and black walder and the rest are with robb in the west, martyn has been of great service scouting, and ser perwyn helped see you safe to renly. gods be good, how much more can we ask of them? robb's betrothed to one of lord walder's daughters, and roose bolton wed another, i hear. and haven't you taken two of his grandsons to be fostered at winterfell? a ward can easily become a hostage, if need be. she had not known that ser stevron was dead, nor of bolton's marriage. if we're two hostages to the good, all the more reason lord walder dare not play us false. bolton needs frey's men, and ser helman's as well. i've commanded him to retake harrenhal. that's like to be a bloody business. yes, but once the castle falls, lord tywin will have no safe retreat. my own levies will defend the fords of red fork against his crossing. if he attacks across the river, he'll end as rhaegar did when he tried to cross the trident. if he holds back, he'll be caught between riverrun and harrenhal, and when robb returns from the west we can finish him for good and all. her brother's voice was full of brusque confidence, but catelyn found herself wishing that robb had not taken her uncle brynden west with him. the blackfish was the veteran of half a hundred battles; edmure was the veteran of one, and that one lost. the plan's a good one, he concluded. lord tytos says so, and lord jonos as well. when did blackwood and bracken agree about anything that was not certain, i ask you? be that as it may. she was suddenly weary. perhaps she was wrong to oppose him. perhaps it was a splendid plan, and her misgivings only a woman's fears. she wished ned were here, or her uncle brynden, or... have you asked father about this? father is in no state to weigh strategies. two days ago he was making plans for your marriage to brandon stark! go see him yourself if you do not believe me. this plan will work, cat, you'll see. i hope so, edmure. i truly do. she kissed him on the cheek, to let him know she meant it, and went to find her father. lord hoster tully was much as she had left him-abed, haggard, flesh pale and clammy. the room smelled of sickness, a cloying odor made up in equal parts of stale sweat and medicine. when she pulled back the drapes, her father gave a low moan, and his eyes fluttered open. he stared at her as if he could not comprehend who she was or what she wanted. father. she kissed him. i am returned. he seemed to know her then. you've come, he whispered faintly, lips barely moving. yes, she said. robb sent me south, but i hurried back. south... where... is the eyrie south, sweetling? i don't recall... oh, dear heart, i was afraid... have you forgiven me, child? tears ran down his cheeks. you've done nothing that needs forgiveness, father. she stroked his limp white hair and felt his brow. the fever still burned him from within, despite all the maester's potions. it was best, her father whispered. jon's a good man, good... strong, kind... take care of you... he will... and well born, listen to me, you must, i'm your father... your father... you'll wed when cat does, yes you will... he thinks i'm lysa, catelyn realized. gods be good, he talks as if we were not married yet. her father's hands clutched at hers, fluttering like two frightened white birds. that stripling... wretched boy... not speak that name to me, your duty... your mother, she would... lord hoster cried as a spasm of pain washed over him. oh, gods forgive me, forgive me, forgive me. my medicine... and then maester vyman was there, holding a cup to his lips. lord hoster sucked at the thick white potion as eager as a babe at the breast, and catelyn could see peace settle over him once more. he'll sleep now, my lady, the maester said when the cup was empty. the milk of the poppy had left a thick white film around her father's mouth. maester vyman wiped it away with a sleeve. catelyn could watch no more. hoster tully had been a strong man, and proud. it hurt her to see him reduced to this. she went out to the terrace. the yard below was crowded with refugees and chaotic with their noises, but beyond the walls the rivers flowed clean and pure and endless. those are his rivers, and soon he will return to them for his last voyage. maester vyman had followed her out. my lady, he said softly, i cannot keep the end at bay much longer. we ought send a rider after his brother. ser brynden would wish to be here. yes, catelyn said, her voice thick with her grief. and the lady lysa as well, perhaps? lysa will not come. if you wrote her yourself, perhaps. i will put some words to paper, if that please you. she wondered who lysa's wretched stripling had been. some young squire or hedge knight, like as not... though by the vehemence with which lord hoster had opposed him, he might have been a tradesman's son or baseborn apprentice, even a singer. lysa had always been too fond of singers. i must not blame her. jon arryn was twenty years older than our father, however noble. the tower her brother had set aside for her use was the very same that she and lysa had shared as maids. it would feel good to sleep on a featherbed again, with a warm fire in the hearth; when she was rested the world would seem less bleak. but outside her chambers she found utherydes wayn waiting with two women clad in grey, their faces cowled save for their eyes. catelyn knew at once why they were here. ned? the sisters lowered their gaze. utherydes said, ser cleos brought him from king's landing, my lady. take me to him, she commanded. they had laid him out on a trestle table and covered him with a banner, the white banner of house stark with its grey direwolf sigil. i would look on him, catelyn said. only the bones remain, my lady. i would look on him, she repeated. one of the silent sisters turned down the banner. bones, catelyn thought. this is not ned, this is not the man i loved, the father of my children. his hands were clasped together over his chest, skeletal fingers curled about the hilt of some longsword, but they were not ned's hands, so strong and full of life. they had dressed the bones in ned's surcoat, the fine white velvet with the direwolf badge over the heart, but nothing remained of the warm flesh that had pillowed her head so many nights, the arms that had held her. the head had been rejoined to the body with fine silver wire, but one skull looks much like another, and in those empty hollows she found no trace of her lord's dark grey eyes, eyes that could be soft as a fog or hard as stone. they gave his eyes to crows, she remembered. catelyn turned away. that is not his sword. ice was not returned to us, my lady, utherydes said. only lord eddard's bones. i suppose i must thank the queen for even that much. thank the imp, my lady. it was his doing. one day i will thank them all. i am grateful for your service, sisters, catelyn said, but i must lay another task upon you. lord eddard was a stark, and his bones must be laid to rest beneath winterfell. they will make a statue of him, a stone likeness that will sit in the dark with a direwolf at his feet and a sword across his knees. make certain the sisters have fresh horses, and aught else they need for the journey, she told utherydes wayn. hal mo lien will escort them back to winterfell, it is his place as captain of guards. she gazed down at the bones that were all that remained of her lord and love. now leave me, all of you. i would be alone with ned tonight. the women in grey bowed their heads. the silent sisters do not speak to the living, catelyn remembered dully, but some say they can talk to the dead. and how she envied that... tell father i have gone to make him proud. her brother swung up into his saddle, every inch the lord in his bright mail and flowing mud-and-water cloak. a silver trout ornamented the crest of his greathelm, twin to the one painted on his shield. he was always proud of you, edmure. and he loves you fiercely. believe that. i mean to give him better reason than mere birth. he wheeled his warhorse about and raised a hand. trumpets sounded, a drum began to boom, the drawbridge descended in fits and starts, and ser edmure tully led his men out from riverrun with lances raised and banners streaming. i have a greater host than yours, brother, catelyn thought as she watched them go. a host of doubts and fears. beside her, brienne's misery was almost palpable. catelyn had ordered garments sewn to her measure, handsome gowns to suit her birth and sex, yet still she preferred to dress in oddments of mail and boiled leather, a swordbelt cinched around her waist. she would have been happier riding to war with edmure, no doubt, but even walls as strong as riverrun' s required swords to hold them. her brother had taken every able-bodied man for the fords, leaving ser desmond grell to command a garrison made up of the wounded, the old, and the sick, along with a few squires and some untrained peasant boys still shy of manhood. this, to defend a castle crammed full of women and children. when the last of edmure's foot had shuffled under the portcullis, brienne asked, what shall we do now, my lady? our duty. catelyn's face was drawn as she started across the yard. i have always done my duty, she thought. perhaps that was why her lord father had always cherished her best of all his children. her two older brothers had both died in infancy, so she had been son as well as daughter to lord hoster until edmure was born. then her mother had died and her father had told her that she must be the lady of riverrun now, and she had done that too. and when lord hoster promised her to brandon stark, she had thanked him for making her such a splendid match. i gave brandon my favor to wear, and never comforted petyr once after he was wounded, nor bid him farewell when father sent him off. and when brandon was murdered and father told me i must wed his brother, i did so gladly, though i never saw ned's face until our wedding day. i gave my maidenhood to this solemn stranger and sent him off to his war and his king and the woman who bore him his bastard, because i always did my duty. her steps took her to the sept, a seven-sided sandstone temple set amidst her mother's gardens and filled with rainbow light. it was crowded when they entered; catelyn was not alone in her need for prayer. she knelt before the painted marble image of the warrior and lit a scented candle for edmure and another for robb off beyond the hills. keep them safe and help them to victory, she prayed, and bring peace to the souls of the slain and comfort to those they leave behind. the septon entered with his censer and crystal while she was at her prayers, so catelyn lingered for the celebration. she did not know this septon, an earnest young man close to edmure's age. he performed his office well enough, and his voice was rich and pleasant when he sang the praises to the seven, but catelyn found herself yearning for the thin quavering tones of septon osmynd, long dead. osmynd would have listened patiently to the tale of what she had seen and felt in renly's pavilion, and he might have known what it meant as well, and what she must do to lay to rest the shadows that stalked her dreams. osmynd, my father, uncle brynden, old maester kym, they always seemed to know everything, but now there is only me, and it seems i know nothing, not even my duty. how can i do my duty if i do not know where it lies? catelyn' s knees were stiff by the time she rose, though she felt no wiser. perhaps she would go to the godswood tonight, and pray to ned's gods as well. they were older than the seven. outside, she found song of a very different sort. rymund the rhymer sat by the brewhouse amidst a circle of listeners, his deep voice ringing as he sang of lord deremond at the bloody meadow. and there he stood with sword in hand, the last of darry's ten... brienne paused to listen for a moment, broad shoulders hunched and thick arms crossed against her chest. a mob of ragged boys raced by, screeching and flailing at each other with sticks. why do boys so love to play at war? catelyn wondered if rymund was the answer. the singer's voice swelled as he neared the end of his song. and red the grass beneath his feet, and red his banners bright, and red the glow of setting sun that bathed him in its light. come on, come on, the great lord called, my sword is hungry still. and with a cry of savage rage, they swarmed across the rill...  fighting is better than this waiting, brienne said. you don't feel so helpless when you fight. you have a sword and a horse, sometimes an axe. when you're armored it's hard for anyone to hurt you. knights die in battle, catelyn reminded her. brienne looked at her with those blue and beautiful eyes. as ladies die in childbed. no one sings songs about them. children are a battle of a different sort. catelyn started across the yard. a battle without banners or warhorns, but no less fierce. carrying a child, bringing it into the world... your mother will have told you of the pain... i never knew my mother, brienne said. my father had ladies... a different lady every year, but... those were no ladies, catelyn said. as hard as birth can be, brienne, what comes after is even harder. at times i feel as though i am being torn apart. would that there were five of me, one for each child, so i might keep them all safe. and who would keep you safe, my lady? her smile was wan and tired. why, the men of my house. or so my lady mother taught me. my lord father, my brother, my uncle, my husband, they will keep me safe... but while they are away from me, i suppose you must fill their place, brienne. brienne bowed her head. i shall try, my lady. later that day, maester vyman brought a letter. she saw him at once, hoping for some word from robb, or from ser rodrik in winterfell, but the message proved to be from one lord meadows, who named himself castellan of storm's end. it was addressed to her father, her brother, her son, or whoever now holds riverrun. ser cortnay penrose was dead, the man wrote, and storm's end had opened its gate to stannis baratheon, the trueborn and rightful heir. the castle garrison had sworn their swords to his cause, one and all, and no man of them had suffered harm. save cortnay penrose, catelyn murmured. she had never met the man, yet she grieved to hear of his passing. robb should know of this at once, she said. do we know where he is? at last word he was marching toward the crag, the seat of house westerling, said maester vyman. if i dispatched a raven to ashemark, it may be that they could send a rider after him. do so. catelyn read the letter again after the maester was gone. lord meadows says nothing of robert's bastard, she confided to brienne. i suppose he yielded the boy with the rest, though i confess, i do not understand why stannis wanted him so badly. perhaps he fears the boy's claim. a bastard's claim? no, it's something else... what does this child look like? he is seven or eight, comely, with black hair and bright blue eyes. visitors oft thought him lord renly's own son. and renly favored robert. catelyn had a glimmer of understanding. stannis means to parade his brother's bastard before the realm, so men might see robert in his face and wonder why there is no such likeness in joffrey.  would that mean so much? those who favor stannis will call it proof. those who support joffrey will say it means nothing. her own children had more tully about them than stark. arya was the only one to show much of ned in her features. and jon snow, but he was never mine. she found herself thinking of jon's mother, that shadowy secret love her husband would never speak of. does she grieve for ned as i do? or did she hate him for leaving her bed for mine? does she pray for her son as i have prayed for mine? they were uncomfortable thoughts, and futile. if jon had been born of ashara dayne of starfall, as some whispered, the lady was long dead; if not, catelyn had no clue who or where his mother might be. and it made no matter. ned was gone now, and his loves and his secrets had all died with him. still, she was struck again by how strangely men behaved when it came to their bastards. ned had always been fiercely protective of jon, and ser cortnay penrose had given up his life for this edric storm, yet roose bolton's bastard had meant less to him than one of his dogs, to judge from the tone of the queer cold letter edmure had gotten from him not three days past. he had crossed the trident and was marching on harrenhal as commanded, he wrote. a strong castle, and well garrisoned, but his grace shall have it, if i must kill every living soul within to make it so. he hoped his grace would weigh that against the crimes of his bastard son, whom ser rodrik cassel had put to death. a fate he no doubt earned, bolton had written. tainted blood is ever treacherous, and ramsay's nature was sly, greedy, and cruel. i count myself well rid of him. the trueborn sons my young wife has promised me would never have been safe while he lived. the sound of hurrying footsteps drove the morbid thoughts from her head. ser desmond's squire dashed panting into the room and knelt. my lady... lannisters... across the river. take a long breath, lad, and tell it slowly. he did as she bid him. a column of armored men, he reported. across the red fork. they are flying a purple unicorn below the lion of lannister. some son of lord brax. brax had come to riverrun once when she was a girl, to propose wedding one of his sons to her or lysa. she wondered whether it was this same son out there now, leading the attack. the lannisters had ridden out of the southeast beneath a blaze of banners, ser desmond told her when she ascended to the battlements to join him. a few outriders, no more, he assured her. the main strength of lord tywin's host is well to the south. we are in no danger here. south of the red fork the land stretched away open and flat. from the watchtower catelyn could see for miles. even so, only the nearest ford was visible. edmure had entrusted lord jason mallister with its defense, as well as that of three others farther upriver. the lannister riders were milling about uncertainly near the water, crimson and silver banners flapping in the wind. no more than fifty, my lady, ser desmond estimated. catelyn watched the riders spread out in a long line. lord jason's men waited to receive them behind rocks and grass and hillocks. a trumpet blast sent the horsemen forward at a ponderous walk, splashing down into the current. for a moment they made a brave show, all bright armor and streaming banners, the sun flashing off the points of their lances. now, she heard brienne mutter. it was hard to make out what was happening, but the screams of the horses seemed loud even at this remove, and beneath them catelyn heard the fainter clash of steel on steel. a banner vanished suddenly as its bearer was swept under, and soon after the first dead man drifted past their walls, borne along by the current. by then the lannisters had pulled back in confusion. she watched as they re-formed, conferred briefly, and galloped back the way they had come. the men on the walls shouted taunts after them, though they were already too far off to hear. ser desmond slapped his belly. would that lord hoster could have seen that. it would have made him dance. my father's dancing days are past, i fear, catelyn said, and this fight is just begun. the lannisters will come again. lord tywin has twice my brother's numbers. he could have ten times and it would not matter, ser desmond said. the west bank of the red fork is higher than the east, my lady, and well wooded. our bowmen have good cover, and a clear field for their shafts... and should any breach occur, edmure will have his best knights in reserve, ready to ride wherever they are most sorely needed. the river will hold them. i pray that you are right, catelyn said gravely. that night they came again. she had commanded them to wake her at once if the enemy returned, and well after midnight a serving girl touched her gently by the shoulder. catelyn sat up at once. what is it? the ford again, my lady. wrapped in a bedrobe, catelyn climbed to the roof of the keep. from there she could see over the walls and the moonlit river to where the battle raged. the defenders had built watchfires along the bank, and perhaps the lannisters thought to find them night-blind or unwary. if so, it was folly. darkness was a chancy ally at best. as they waded in to breast their way across, men stepped in hidden pools and went down splashing, while others stumbled over stones or gashed their feet on the hidden caltrops. the mallister bowmen sent a storm of fire arrows hissing across the river, strangely beautiful from afar. one man, pierced through a dozen times, his clothes afire, danced and whirled in the knee-deep water until at last he fell and was swept downstream. by the time his body came bobbing past riverrun, the fires and his life had both been extinguished. a small victory, catelyn thought when the fighting had ended and the surviving foemen had melted back into the night, yet a victory nonetheless. as they descended the winding turret steps, catelyn asked brienne for her thoughts. that was the brush of lord tywin's fingertip, my lady, the girl said. he is probing, feeling for a weak point, an undefended crossing, if he does not find one, he will curl all his fingers into a fist and try and make one. brienne hunched her shoulders. that's what i'd do. were i him. her hand went to the hilt of her sword and gave it a little pat, as if to make certain it was still there. and may the gods help us then, catelyn thought. yet there was nothing she could do for it. that was edmure's battle out there on the river; hers was here inside the castle. the next morning as she broke her fast, she sent for her father's aged steward, utherydes wayn. have ser cleos frey brought a flagon of wine. i mean to question him soon, and i want his tongue well loosened. as you command, my lady. not long after, a rider with the mallister eagle sewn on his breast arrived with a message from lord jason, telling of another skirmish and another victory. ser flement brax had tried to force a crossing at a different ford six leagues to the south. this time the lannisters shortened their lances and advanced across the river behind on foot, but the mallister bowmen had rained high arcing shots down over their shields, while the scorpions edmure had mounted on the riverbank sent heavy stones crashing through to break up the formation. they left a dozen dead in the water, only two reaching the shallows, where we dealt with them briskly, the rider reported. he also told of fighting farther upstream, where lord karyl vance held the fords. those thrusts too were turned aside, at grievous cost to our foes. perhaps edmure was wiser than i knew, catelyn thought. his lords all saw the sense in his battle plans, why was i so blind? my brother is not the little boy i remember, no more than robb is. she waited until evening before going to pay her call upon ser cleos frey, reasoning that the longer she delayed, the drunker he was likely to be. as she entered the tower cell, ser cleos stumbled to his knees. my lady, i knew naught of any escape. the imp said a lannister must needs have a lannister escort, on my oath as a knight- arise, ser. catelyn seated herself. i know no grandson of walder frey would be an oathbreaker. unless it served his purpose. you brought peace terms, my brother said. i did. ser cleos lurched to his feet. she was pleased to see how unsteady he was. tell me, she commanded, and he did. when he was done, catelyn sat frowning. edmure had been right, these were no terms at all, except lannister will exchange arya and sansa for his brother? yes. he sat on the iron throne and swore it. before witnesses? before all the court, my lady. and the gods as well. i said as much to ser edmure, but he told me it was not possible, that his grace robb would never consent. he told you true. she could not even say that robb was wrong. arya and sansa were children. the kingslayer, alive and free, was as dangerous as any man in the realm. that road led nowhere. did you see my girls? are they treated well? ser cleos hesitated. i... yes, they seemed. he is fumbling for a lie, catelyn realized, but the wine has fuddled his wits. ser cleos, she said coolly, you forfeited the protection of your peace banner when your men played us false. lie to me, and you'll hang from the walls beside them. believe that. i shall ask you once more- did you see my daughters? his brow was damp with sweat. i saw sansa at the court, the day tyrion told me his terms. she looked most beautiful, my lady. perhaps a, a bit wan. drawn, as it were. sansa, but not arya. that might mean anything. arya had always been harder to tame. perhaps cersei was reluctant to parade her in open court for fear of what she might say or do. they might have her locked safely out of sight. or they might have killed her. catelyn shoved the thought away. his terms, you said... yet cersei is queen regent. tyrion spoke for both of them. the queen was not there. she was indisposed that day, i was told. curious. catelyn thought back to that terrible trek through the mountains of the moon, and the way tyrion lannister had somehow seduced that sellsword from her service to his own. the dwarf is too clever by half. she could not imagine how he had survived the high road after lysa had sent him from the vale, yet it did not surprise her. he had no part in ned's murder, at the least. and he came to my defense when the clansmen attacked us. if i could trust his word... she opened her hands to look down at the scars across her fingers. his dagger's marks, she reminded herself. his dagger, in the hand of the killer he paid to open bran's throat. though the dwarf denied it, to be sure. even after lysa locked him in one of her sky cells and threatened him with her moon door, he had still denied it. he lied, she said, rising abruptly. the lannisters are liars every one, and the dwarf is the worst of them. the killer was armed with his own knife. ser cleos stared. i know nothing of any- you know nothing, she agreed, sweeping from the cell. brienne fell in beside her, silent. it is simpler for her, catelyn thought with a pang of envy. she was like a man in that. for men the answer was always the same, and never farther away than the nearest sword. for a woman, a mother, the way was stonier and harder to know. she took a late supper in the great hall with her garrison, to give them what encouragement she could. rymund the rhymer sang through all the courses, sparing her the need to talk. he closed with the song he had written about robb's victory at oxcross. and the stars in the night were the eyes of his wolves, and the wind itself was their song.  between the verses, rymund threw back his head and howled, and by the end, half of the hall was howling along with him, even desmond grell, who was well in his cups. their voices rang off the rafters. let them have their songs, if it makes them brave, catelyn thought, toying with her silver goblet. there was always a singer at evenfall hall when i was a girl, brienne said quietly. i learned all the songs by heart. sansa did the same, though few singers ever cared to make the long journey north to winterfell. i told her there would be singers at the king's court, though. i told her she would hear music of all sorts, that her father could find some master to help her learn the high harp. oh, gods forgive me... brienne said, i remember a woman... she came from some place across the narrow sea. i could not even say what language she sang in, but her voice was as lovely as she was. she had eyes the color of plums and her waist was so tiny my father could put his hands around it. his hands were almost as big as mine. she closed her long, thick fingers, as if to hide them. did you sing for your father? catelyn asked. brienne shook her head, staring down at her trencher as if to find some answer in the gravy. for lord renly? the girl reddened. never, i... his fool, he made cruel japes sometimes, and i... someday you must sing for me. i... please, i have no gift. brienne pushed back from the table. forgive me, my lady. do i have your leave to go? catelyn nodded. the tall, ungainly girl left the hall with long strides, almost unnoticed amidst the revelry. may the gods go with her, she thought as she returned listlessly to her supper. it was three days later when the hammer blow that brienne had foretold fell, and five days before they heard of it. catelyn was sitting with her father when edmure's messenger arrived. the man's armor was dinted, his boots dusty, and he had a ragged hole in his surcoat, but the look on his face as he knelt was enough to tell her that the news was good. victory, my lady. he handed her edmure's letter. her hand trembled as she broke the seal. lord tywin had tried to force a crossing at a dozen different fords, her brother wrote, but every thrust had been thrown back. lord lefford had been drowned, the crakehall knight called strongboar taken captive, ser addam. marbrand thrice forced to retreat... but the fiercest battle had been fought at stone mill, where ser gregor clegane had led the assault. so many of his men had fallen that their dead horses threatened to dam the flow. in the end the mountain and a handful of his best had gained the west bank, but edmure had thrown his reserve at them, and they had shattered and reeled away bloody and beaten. ser gregor himself had lost his horse and staggered back across the red fork bleeding from a dozen wounds while a rain of arrows and stones fell all around him. they shall not cross, cat, edmure scrawled, lord tywin is marching to the southeast. a feint perhaps, or full retreat, it matters not. they shall not cross.  ser desmond grell had been elated. oh, if only i might have been with him, the old knight said when she read him the letter. where is that fool rymund? there's a song in this, by the gods, and one that even edmure will want to hear. the mill that ground the mountain down, i could almost make the words myself, had i the singer's gift. i'll hear no songs until the fighting's done, catelyn said, perhaps too sharply. yet she allowed ser desmond to spread the word, and agreed when he suggested breaking open some casks in honor of stone mill. the mood within riverrun had been strained and somber; they would all be better for a little drink and hope. that night the castle rang to the sounds of celebration. riverrun! the smallfolk shouted, and tully! tully! they'd come frightened and helpless, and her brother had taken them in when most lords would have closed their gates. their voices floated in through the high windows, and seeped under the heavy redwood doors. rymund played his harp, accompanied by a pair of drummers and a youth with a set of reed pipes. catelyn listened to girlish laughter, and the excited chatter of the green boys her brother had left her for a garrison. good sounds... and yet they did not touch her. she could not share their happiness. in her father's solar she found a heavy leatherbound book of maps and opened it to the riverlands. her eyes found the path of the red fork and traced it by flickering candlelight. marching to the southeast, she thought. by now they had likely reached the headwaters of the blackwater rush, she decided. she closed the book even more uneasy than before. the gods had granted them victory after victory. at stone mill, at oxcross, in the battle of the camps, at the whispering wood... but if we are winning, why am i so afraid? the great hall of riverrun was a lonely place for two to sit to supper. deep shadows draped the walls. one of the torches had guttered out, leaving only three. catelyn sat staring into her wine goblet. the vintage tasted thin and sour on her tongue. brienne was across from her. between them, her father's high seat was as empty as the rest of the hall. even the servants were gone. she had given them leave to join the celebration. the walls of the keep were thick, yet even so, they could hear the muffled sounds of revelry from the yard outside. ser desmond had brought twenty casks up from the cellars, and the smallfolk were celebrating edmure's imminent return and robb's conquest of the crag by hoisting horns of nut-brown ale. i cannot blame them, catelyn thought. they do not know and if they did, why should they care? they never knew my sons. never watched bran climb with their hearts in their throats, pride and terror so mingled they seemed as one, never heard him laugh, never smiled to see rickon trying so fiercely to be like his older brothers. she stared at the supper set before her: trout wrapped in bacon, salad of turnip greens and red fennel and sweetgrass, pease and onions and hot bread. brienne was eating methodically, as if supper were another chore to be accomplished. i am become a sour woman, catelyn thought. i take no joy in mead nor meat, and song and laughter have become suspicious strangers to me. i am a creature of grief and dust and bitter longings. there is an empty place within me where my heart was once. the sound of the other woman's eating had become intolerable to her. brienne, i am no fit company. go join the revels, if you would. drink a horn of ale and dance to rymund's harping. i am not made for revels, my lady. her big hands tore apart a heel of black bread. brienne stared at the chunks as if she had forgotten what they were. if you command it, i... catelyn could sense her discomfort. i only thought you might enjoy happier company than mine. i'm well content. the girl used the bread to sop up some of the bacon grease the trout had been fried in. there was another bird this morning. catelyn did not know why she said it. the maester woke me at once. that was dutiful, but not kind. not kind at all. she had not meant to tell brienne. no one knew but her and maester vyman, and she had meant to keep it that way until... until... until what? foolish woman, will holding it secret in your heart make it any less true? if you never tell, never speak of it, will it become only a dream, less than a dream, a nightmare half- remembered? oh, if only the gods would be so good. is it news of king's landing? asked brienne. would that it was. the bird came from castle cerwyn, from ser rodrik, my castellan. dark wings, dark words. he has gathered what power he could and is marching on winterfell, to take the castle back. how unimportant all that sounded now. but he said... he wrote... he told me, he... my lady, what is it? is it some news of your sons? such a simple question that was; would that the answer could be as simple. when catelyn tried to speak, the words caught in her throat. i have no sons but robb. she managed those terrible words without a sob, and for that much she was glad. brienne looked at her with horror. my lady? bran and rickon tried to escape, but were taken at a mill on the acorn water. theon greyjoy has mounted their heads on the walls of winterfell. theon greyjoy, who ate at my table since he was a boy often. i have said it, gods forgive me. i have said it and made it true. brienne's face was a watery blur. she reached across the table, but her fingers stopped short of catelyn's, as if the touch might be unwelcome. i... there are no words, my lady. my good lady. your sons, they... they're with the gods now. are they? catelyn said sharply. what god would let this happen? rickon was only a baby. how could he deserve such a death? and bran... when i left the north, he had not opened his eyes since his fall. i had to go before he woke. now i can never return to him, or hear him laugh again. she showed brienne her palms, her fingers. these scars... they sent a man to cut bran's throat as he lay sleeping. he would have died then, and me with him, but bran's wolf tore out the man's throat. that gave her a moment's pause. i suppose theon killed the wolves too. he must have, elsewise... i was certain the boys would be safe so long as the direwolves were with them. like robb with his grey wind. but my daughters have no wolves now. the abrupt shift of topic left brienne bewildered. your daughters... sansa was a lady at three, always so courteous and eager to please. she loved nothing so well as tales of knightly valor. men would say she had my look, but she will grow into a woman far more beautiful than i ever was, you can see that. i often sent away her maid so i could brush her hair myself. she had auburn hair, lighter than mine, and so thick and soft... the red in it would catch the light of the torches and shine like copper. and arya, well... ned's visitors would oft mistake her for a stableboy if they rode into the yard unannounced. arya was a trial, it must be said. half a boy and half a wolf pup. forbid her anything and it became her heart's desire. she had ned's long face, and brown hair that always looked as though a bird had been nesting in it. i despaired of ever making a lady of her. she collected scabs as other girls collect dolls, and would say anything that came into her head. i think she must be dead too. when she said that, it felt as though a giant hand were squeezing her chest. i want them all dead, brienne. theon greyjoy first, then jaime lannister and cersei and the imp, every one, every one. but my girls... my girls will... the queen... she has a little girl of her own, brienne said awkwardly. and sons too, of an age with yours. when she hears, perhaps she... she may take pity, and... send my daughters back unharmed? catelyn smiled sadly. there is a sweet innocence about you, child. i could wish... but no. robb will avenge his brothers. ice can kill as dead as fire. ice was ned's greatsword. valyrian steel, marked with the ripples of a thousand foldings, so sharp i feared to touch it. robb's blade is dull as a cudgel compared to ice. it will not be easy for him to get theon's head off, i fear. the starks do not use headsmen. ned always said that the man who passes the sentence should swing the blade, though he never took any joy in the duty. but i would, oh, yes. she stared at her scarred hands, opened and closed them, then slowly raised her eyes. i've sent him wine. wine? brienne was lost. robb? or... theon greyjoy? the kingslayer. the ploy had served her well with cleos frey. i hope you're thirsty, jaime. i hope your throat is dry and tight. i would like you to come with me. i am yours to command, my lady. good. catelyn rose abruptly. stay, finish your meal in peace. i will send for you later. at midnight. so late, my lady? the dungeons are windowless. one hour is much like another down there, and for me, all hours are midnight. her footsteps rang hollowly when catelyn left the hall. as she climbed to lord hoster's solar, she could hear them outside, shouting, tully! and a cup! a cup to the brave young lord! my father is not dead, she wanted to shout down at them. my sons are dead, but my father lives, damn you all, and he is your lord still. lord hoster was deep in sleep. he had a cup of dreamwine not so long ago, my lady, maester vyman said. for the pain. he will not know you are here. it makes no matter, catelyn said. he is more dead than alive, yet more alive than my poor sweet sons. my lady, is there aught i might do for you? a sleeping draught, perhaps? thank you, maester, but no. i will not sleep away my grief. bran and rickon deserve better from me. go and join the celebration, i will sit with my father for a time. as you will, my lady. vyman bowed and left her. lord hoster lay on his back, mouth open, his breath a faint whistling sigh. one hand hung over the edge of the mattress, a pale frail fleshless thing, but warm when she touched it. she slid her fingers through his and closed them. no matter how tightly i hold him, i cannot keep him here, she thought sadly. let him go. yet her fingers would not seem to unbend. i have no one to talk with, father, she told him. i pray, but the gods do not answer. lightly she kissed his hand. the skin was warm, blue veins branching like rivers beneath his pale translucent skin. outside the greater rivers flowed, the red fork and the tumblestone, and they would flow forever, but not so the rivers in her father's hand. too soon that current would grow still. last night i dreamed of that time lysa and i got lost while riding back from seagard. do you remember? that strange fog came up and we fell behind the rest of the party. everything was grey, and i could not see a foot past the nose of my horse. we lost the road. the branches of the trees were like long skinny arms reaching out to grab us as we passed. lysa started to cry, and when i shouted the fog seemed to swallow the sound. but petyr knew where we were, and he rode back and found us... but there's no one to find me now, is there? this time i have to find our own way, and it is hard, so hard. i keep remembering the stark words. winter has come, father. for me. for me. robb must fight the greyjoys now as well as the lannisters, and for what? for a gold hat and an iron chair? surely the land has bled enough. i want my girls back, i want robb to lay down his sword and pick some homely daughter of walder frey to make him happy and give him sons. i want bran and rickon back, i want... catelyn hung her head. i want, she said once more, and then her words were gone. after a time the candle guttered and went out. moonlight slanted between the slats of the shutters, laying pale silvery bars across her father's face. she could hear the soft whisper of his labored breathing, the endless rush of waters, the faint chords of some love song drifting up from the yard, so sad and sweet. i loved a maid as red as autumn, rymund sang, with sunset in her hair. catelyn never noticed when the singing ended. hours had passed, yet it seemed only a heartbeat before brienne was at the door. my lady, she announced softly. midnight has come. midnight has come, father, she thought, and i must do my duty. she let go of his hand. the gaoler was a furtive little man with broken veins in his nose. they found him bent over a tankard of ale and the remains of a pigeon pie, more than a little drunk. he squinted at them suspiciously. begging your forgiveness, m'lady, but lord edmure says no one is to see the kingslayer without a writing from him, with his seal upon it. lord edmure? has my father died, and no one told me? the gaoler licked his lips. no, m'lady, not as i knows. you will open the cell, or you will come with me to lord hoster's solar and tell him why you saw fit to defy me. his eyes fell. as m'lady says. the keys were chained to the studded leather belt that girdled his waist. he muttered under his breath as he sorted through them, until he found the one that fit the door to the kingslayer 's cell. go back to your ale and leave us, she commanded. an oil lamp hung from a hook on the low ceiling. catelyn took it down and turned up the flame. brienne, see that i am not disturbed. nodding, brienne took up a position just outside the cell, her hand resting on the pommel of her sword. my lady will call if she has need of me. catelyn shouldered aside the heavy wood-and-iron door and stepped into foul darkness. this was the bowels of riverrun, and smelled the part. old straw crackled underfoot. the walls were discolored with patches of nitre. through the stone, she could hear the faint rush of the tumblestone. the lamplight revealed a pail overflowing with feces in one corner and a huddled shape in another. the flagon of wine stood beside the door, untouched. so much for that ploy. i ought to be thankful that the gaoler did not drink it himself, i suppose. jaime raised his hands to cover his face, the chains around his wrists clanking. lady stark, he said, in a voice hoarse with disuse. i fear i am in no condition to receive you. look at me, ser. the light hurts my eyes. a moment, if you would. jaime lannister had been allowed no razor since the night he was taken in the whispering wood, and a shaggy beard covered his face, once so like the queen's. glinting gold in the lamplight, the whiskers made him look like some great yellow beast, magnificent even in chains. his unwashed hair fell to his shoulders in ropes and tangles, the clothes were rotting on his body, his face was pale and wasted... and even so, the power and the beauty of the man were still apparent. i see you had no taste for the wine i sent you. such sudden generosity seemed somewhat suspect. i can have your head off anytime i want. why would i need to poison you? death by poison can seem natural. harder to claim that my head simply fell off. he squinted up from the floor, his cat-green eyes slowly becoming accustomed to the light. i'd invite you to sit, but your brother has neglected to provide me a chair. i can stand well enough. can you? you look terrible, i must say. though perhaps it's just the light in here. he was fettered at wrist and ankle, each cuff chained to the others, so he could neither stand nor lie comfortably. the ankle chains were bolted to the wall. are my bracelets heavy enough for you, or did you come to add a few more? i'll rattle them prettily if you like. you brought this on yourself, she reminded him. we granted you the comfort of a tower cell befitting your birth and station. you repaid us by trying to escape. a cell is a cell. some under easterly rock make this one seem a sunlit garden. one day perhaps i'll show them to you. if he is cowed, he hides it well, catelyn thought. a man chained hand and foot should keep a more courteous tongue in his mouth, ser. i did not come here to be threatened. no? then surely it was to have your pleasure of me? it's said that widows grow weary of their empty beds. we of the kingsguard vow never to wed, but i suppose i could still service you if that's what you need. pour us some of that wine and slip out of that gown and we'll see if i'm up to it. catelyn stared down at him in revulsion. was there ever a man as beautiful or as vile as this one? if you said that in my son's hearing, he would kill you for it. only so long as i was wearing these. jaime lannister rattled his chains at her. we both know the boy is afraid to face me in single combat. my son may be young, but if you take him for a fool, you are sadly mistaken... and it seems to me that you were not so quick to make challenges when you had an army at your back. did the old kings of winter hide behind their mothers' skirts as well?  i grow weary of this, ser. there are things i must know. why should i tell you anything? to save your life. you think i fear death? that seemed to amuse him. you should. your crimes will have earned you a place of torment in the deepest of the seven hells, if the gods are just. what gods are those, lady catelyn? the trees your husband prayed to? how well did they serve him when my sister took his head off? jaime gave a chuckle. if there are gods, why is the world so full of pain and injustice? because of men like you. there are no men like me. there's only me. there is nothing here but arrogance and pride, and the empty courage of a madman. i am wasting my breath with this one. if there was ever a spark of honor in him, it is long dead. if you will not speak with me, so be it. drink the wine or piss in it, ser, it makes no matter to me. her hand was at the door pull when he said, lady stark. she turned, waited. things go to rust in this damp, jaime went on. even a man's courtesies. stay, and you shall have your answers... for a price. he has no shame. captives do not set prices. oh, you'll find mine modest enough. your turnkey tells me nothing but vile lies, and he cannot even keep them straight, one day he says cersei has been flayed, and the next it's my father. answer my questions and i'll answer yours. truthfully?  oh, it's truth you want? be careful, my lady. tyrion says that people often claim to hunger for truth, but seldom like the taste when it's served up. i am strong enough to hear anything you care to say. as you will, then. but first, if you'd be so kind... the wine. my throat is raw. catelyn hung the lamp from the door and moved the cup and flagon closer. jaime sloshed the wine around his mouth before he swallowed. sour and vile, he said, but it will do. he put his back to the wall, drew his knees up to his chest, and stared at her. your first question, lady catelyn? not knowing how long this game might continue, catelyn wasted no time. are you joffrey's father? you would never ask unless you knew the answer. i want it from your own lips. he shrugged. joffrey is mine. as are the rest of cersei's brood, i suppose. you admit to being your sister's lover? i've always loved my sister, and you owe me two answers. do all my kin still live? ser stafford lannister was slain at oxcross, i am told. jaime was unmoved. uncle dolt, my sister called him. it's cersei and tyrion who concern me. as well as my lord father. they live, all three. but not long, if the gods are good. jaime drank some more wine. ask your next. catelyn wondered if he would dare answer her next question with anything but a lie. how did my son bran come to fall? i flung him from a window. the easy way he said it took her voice away for an instant. if i had a knife, i would kill him now, she thought, until she remembered the girls. her throat constricted as she said, you were a knight, sworn to defend the weak and innocent. he was weak enough, but perhaps not so innocent. he was spying on us. bran would not spy. then blame those precious gods of yours, who brought the boy to our window and gave him a glimpse of something he was never meant to see. blame the gods? she said, incredulous. yours was the hand that threw him. you meant for him to die. his chains chinked softly. i seldom fling children from towers to improve their health. yes, i meant for him to die. and when he did not, you knew your danger was worse than ever, so you gave your catspaw a bag of silver to make certain bran would never wake. did i now? jaime lifted his cup and took a long swallow. i won't deny we talked of it, but you were with the boy day and night, your maester and lord eddard attended him frequently, and there were guards, even those damned direwolves... it would have required cutting my way through half of winterfell. and why bother, when the boy seemed like to die of his own accord? if you lie to me, this session is at an end. catelyn held out her hands, to show him her fingers and palms. the man who came to slit bran's throat gave me these scars. you swear you had no part in sending him?  on my honor as a lannister. your honor as a lannister is worth less than this. she kicked over the waste pail. foul- smelling brown ooze crept across the floor of the cell, soaking into the straw. jaime lannister backed away from the spill as far as his chains would allow. i may indeed have shit for honor, i won't deny it, but i have never yet hired anyone to do my killing. believe what you will, lady stark, but if i had wanted your bran dead i would have slain him myself. gods be merciful, he's telling the truth. if you did not send the killer, your sister did. if so, i'd know. cersei keeps no secrets from me. then it was the imp. tyrion is as innocent as your bran. he wasn't climbing around outside of anyone's window, spying. then why did the assassin have his dagger? what dagger was this? it was so long, she said, holding her hands apart, plain, but finely made, with a blade of valyrian steel and a dragonbone hilt. your brother won it from lord baelish at the tourney on prince joffrey's name day. lannister poured, drank, poured, and stared into his wine cup. this wine seems to be improving as i drink it. imagine that. i seem to remember that dagger, now that you describe it. won it, you say? how? wagering on you when you tilted against the knight of flowers. yet when she heard her own words catelyn knew she had gotten it wrong. no... was it the other way? tyrion always backed me in the lists, jaime said, but that day ser loras unhorsed me. a mischance, i took the boy too lightly, but no matter. whatever my brother wagered, he lost... but that dagger did change hands, i recall it now. robert showed it to me that night at the feast. his grace loved to salt my wounds, especially when drunk. and when was he not drunk? tyrion lannister had said much the same thing as they rode through the mountains of the moon, catelyn remembered. she had refused to believe him. petyr had sworn otherwise, petyr who had been almost a brother, petyr who loved her so much he fought a duel for her hand... and yet if jaime and tyrion told the same tale, what did that mean? the brothers had not seen each other since departing winterfell more than a year ago. are you trying to deceive me? somewhere there was a trap here. i've admitted to shoving your precious urchin out a window, what would it gain me to lie about this knife? he tossed down another cup of wine. believe what you will, i'm past caring what people say of me. and it's my turn. have robert's brothers taken the field? they have. now there's a niggardly response. give me more than that, or your next answer will be as poor. stannis marches against king's landing, she said grudgingly. renly is dead, murdered at bitterbridge by his brother, through some black art i do not understand. a pity, jaime said. i rather liked renly, though stannis is quite another tale. what side have the tyrells taken? renly, at first. now, i could not say. your boy must be feeling lonely. robb was sixteen a few days past... a man grown, and a king. he's won every battle he's fought. the last word we had from him, he had taken the crag from the westerlings. he hasn't faced my father yet, has he? when he does, he'll defeat him. as he did you. he took me unawares. a craven's trick. you dare talk of tricks? your brother tyrion sent us cutthroats in envoy's garb, under a peace banner. if it were one of your sons in this cell, wouldn't his brothers do as much for him? my son has no brothers, she thought, but she would not share her pain with a creature such as this. jaime drank some more wine. what's a brother's life when honor is at stake, eh? another sip. tyrion is clever enough to realize that your son will never consent to ransom me. catelyn could not deny it. robb's bannermen would sooner see you dead. rickard karstark in particular. you slew two of his sons in the whispering wood. the two with the white sunburst, were they? jaime gave a shrug. if truth be told, it was your son that i was trying to slay. the others got in my way. i killed them in fair fight, in the heat of battle. any other knight would have done the same. how can you still count yourself a knight, when you have forsaken every vow you ever swore? jaime reached for the flagon to refill his cup. so many vows... they make you swear and swear. defend the king. obey the king. keep his secrets. do his bidding. your life for his. but obey your father. love your sister. protect the innocent. defend the weak. respect the gods. obey the laws. it's too much. no matter what you do, you're forsaking one vow or the other. he took a healthy swallow of wine and closed his eyes for an instant, leaning his head back against the patch of nitre on the wall. i was the youngest man ever to wear the white cloak. and the youngest to betray all it stood for, kingslayer. kingslayer, he pronounced carefully. and such a king he was! he lifted his cup. to aerys targaryen, the second of his name, lord of the seven kingdoms and protector of the realm. and to the sword that opened his throat. a golden sword, don't you know. until his blood ran red down the blade. those are the lannister colors, red and gold. as he laughed, she realized the wine had done its work; jaime had drained most of the flagon, and he was drunk. only a man like you would be proud of such an act. i told you, there are no men like me. answer me this, lady stark did your ned ever tell you the manner of his father's death? or his brother's?  they strangled brandon while his father watched, and then killed lord rickard as well. an ugly tale, and sixteen years old. why was he asking about it now? killed, yes, but how? the cord or the axe, i suppose. jaime took a swallow, wiped his mouth. no doubt ned wished to spare you. his sweet young bride, if not quite a maiden. well, you wanted truth. ask me. we made a bargain, i can deny you nothing. ask. dead is dead. i do not want to know this. brandon was different from his brother, wasn't he? he had blood in his veins instead of cold water. more like me. brandon was nothing like you. if you say so. you and he were to wed. he was on his way to riverrun when... strange, how telling it still made her throat grow tight, after all these years, ...when he heard about lyanna, and went to king's landing instead. it was a rash thing to do. she remembered how her own father had raged when the news had been brought to riverrun. the gallant fool, was what he called brandon. jaime poured the last half cup of wine. he rode into the red keep with a few companions, shouting for prince rhaegar to come out and die. but rhaegar wasn't there. aerys sent his guards to arrest them all for plotting his son's murder. the others were lords' sons too, it seems to me. ethan glover was brandon's squire, catelyn said. he was the only one to survive. the others were jeffory mallister, kyle royce, and elbert arryn, jon arryn's nephew and heir. it was queer how she still remembered the names, after so many years. aerys accused them of treason and summoned their fathers to court to answer the charge, with the sons as hostages. when they came, he had them murdered without trial. fathers and sons both. there were trials. of a sort. lord rickard demanded trial by combat, and the king granted the request. stark armored himself as for battle, thinking to duel one of the kingsguard. me, perhaps. instead they took him to the throne room and suspended him from the rafters while two of aerys's pyromancers kindled a blaze beneath him. the king told him that fire was the champion of house targaryen. so all lord rickard needed to do to prove himself innocent of treason was... well, not burn. when the fire was blazing, brandon was brought in. his hands were chained behind his back, and around his neck was a wet leathern cord attached to a device the king had brought from tyrosh. his legs were left free, though, and his longsword was set down just beyond his reach. the pyromancers roasted lord rickard slowly, banking and fanning that fire carefully to get a nice even heat. his cloak caught first, and then his surcoat, and soon he wore nothing but metal and ashes. next he would start to cook, aerys promised... unless his son could free him. brandon tried, but the more he struggled, the tighter the cord constricted around his throat. in the end he strangled himself. as for lord rickard, the steel of his breastplate turned cherry-red before the end, and his gold melted off his spurs and dripped down into the fire. i stood at the foot of the iron throne in my white armor and white cloak, filling my head with thoughts of cersei. after, gerold hightower himself took me aside and said to me, 'you swore a vow to guard the king, not to judge him. ' that was the white bull, loyal to the end and a better man than me, all agree. aerys... catelyn could taste bile at the back of her throat. the story was so hideous she suspected it had to be true. aerys was mad, the whole realm knew it, but if you would have me believe you slew him to avenge brandon stark... i made no such claim. the starks were nothing to me. i will say, i think it passing odd that i am loved by one for a kindness i never did, and reviled by so many for my finest act. at robert's coronation, i was made to kneel at the royal feet beside grand maester pycelle and varys the eunuch, so that he might forgive us our crimes before he took us into his service. as for your ned, he should have kissed the hand that slew aerys, but he preferred to scorn the arse he found sitting on robert's throne. i think ned stark loved robert better than he ever loved his brother or his father... or even you, my lady. he was never unfaithful to robert, was he? jaime gave a drunken laugh. come, lady stark, don't you find this all terribly amusing? i find nothing about you amusing, kingslayer. that name again. i don't think i'll fuck you after all, littlefinger had you first, didn't he? i never eat off another man's trencher. besides, you're not half so lovely as my sister. his smile cut. i've never lain with any woman but cersei. in my own way, i have been truer than your ned ever was. poor old dead ned. so who has shit for honor now, i ask you? what was the name of that bastard he fathered? catelyn took a step backward. brienne. - no, that wasn't it. jaime lannister upended the flagon. a trickle ran down onto his face, bright as blood. snow, that was the one. such a white name... like the pretty cloaks they give us in the kingsguard when we swear our pretty oaths. brienne pushed open the door and stepped inside the cell. you called, my lady? give me your sword. catelyn held out her hand. 