the land was red and dead and parched, and good wood was hard to come by. her foragers returned with gnarled cottonwoods, purple brush, sheaves of brown grass. they took the two straightest trees, hacked the limbs and branches from them, skinned off their bark, and split them, laying the logs in a square. its center they filled with straw, brush, bark shavings, and bundles of dry grass. rakharo chose a stallion from the small herd that remained to them; he was not the equal of khal drogo's red, but few horses were. in the center of the square, aggo fed him a withered apple and dropped him in an instant with an axe blow between the eyes. bound hand and foot, mirri maz duur watched from the dust with disquiet in her black eyes. it is not enough to kill a horse, she told dany. by itself, the blood is nothing. you do not have the words to make a spell, nor the wisdom to find them. do you think bloodmagic is a game for children? you call me maegi as if it were a curse, but all it means is wise. you are a child, with a child's ignorance. whatever you mean to do, it will not work. loose me from these bonds and i will help you. i am tired of the maegi's braying, dany told jhogo. he took his whip to her, and after that the godswife kept silent. over the carcass of the horse, they built a platform of hewn logs; trunks of smaller trees and limbs from the greater, and the thickest straightest branches they could find. they laid the wood east to west, from sunrise to sunset. on the platform they piled khal drogo's treasures: his great tent, his painted vests, his saddles and harness, the whip his father had given him when he came to manhood, the arakh he had used to slay khal ogo and his son, a mighty dragonbone bow. aggo would have added the weapons drogo's bloodriders had given dany for bride gifts as well, but she forbade it. those are mine, she told him, and i mean to keep them. another layer of brush was piled about the khal's treasures, and bundles of dried grass scattered over them. ser jorah mormont drew her aside as the sun was creeping toward its zenith. princess... he began. why do you call me that? dany challenged him. my brother viserys was your king, was he not? he was, my lady. viserys is dead. i am his heir, the last blood of house targaryen. whatever was his is mine now. my... queen, ser jorah said, going to one knee. my sword that was his is yours, daenerys. and my heart as well, that never belonged to your brother. i am only a knight, and i have nothing to offer you but exile, but i beg you, hear me. let khal drogo go. you shall not be alone. i promise you, no man shall take you to vaes dothrak unless you wish to go. you need not join the dosh khaleen. come east with me. yi ti, oarth, the jade sea, asshai by the shadow. we will see all the wonders yet unseen, and drink what wines the gods see fit to serve us. please, khaleesi. i know what you intend. do not. do not. i must, dany told him. she touched his face, fondly, sadly. you do not understand. i understand that you loved him, ser jorah said in a voice thick with despair. i loved my lady wife once, yet i did not die with her. you are my queen, my sword is yours, but do not ask me to stand aside as you climb on drogo's pyre. i will not watch you burn. is that what you fear? dany kissed him lightly on his broad forehead. i am not such a child as that, sweet ser. you do not mean to die with him? you swear it, my queen? i swear it, she said in the common tongue of the seven kingdoms that by rights were hers. the third level of the platform was woven of branches no thicker than a finger, and covered with dry leaves and twigs. they laid them north to south, from ice to fire, and piled them high with soft cushions and sleeping silks. the sun had begun to lower toward the west by the time they were done. dany called the dothraki around her. fewer than a hundred were left. how many had aegon started with? she wondered. it did not matter. you will be my khalasar, she told them. i see the faces of slaves. i free you. take off your collars. go if you wish, no one shall harm you. if you stay, it will be as brothers and sisters, husbands and wives. the black eyes watched her, wary, expressionless. i see the children, women, the wrinkled faces of the aged. i was a child yesterday. today i am a woman. tomorrow i will be old. to each of you i say, give me your hands and your hearts, and there will always be a place for you. she turned to the three young warriors of her khas. jhogo, to you i give the silver-handled whip that was my bride gift, and name you ko, and ask your oath, that you will live and die as blood of my blood, riding at my side to keep me safe from harm. jhogo took the whip from her hands, but his face was confused. khaleesi, he said hesitantly, this is not done. it would shame me, to be bloodrider to a woman. aggo, dany called, paying no heed to jhogo's words. if i look back i am lost. to you i give the dragonbone bow that was my bride gift. it was double-curved, shiny black and exquisite, taller than she was. i name you ko, and ask your oath, that you should live and die as blood of my blood, riding at my side to keep me safe from harm. aggo accepted the bow with lowered eyes. i cannot say these words. only a man can lead a khalasar or name a ko. rakharo, dany said, turning away from the refusal, you shall have the great arakh that was my bride gift, with hilt and blade chased in gold. and you too i name my ko, and ask that you live and die as blood of my blood, riding at my side to keep me safe from harm. you are khaleesi, rakharo said, taking the arakh. i shall ride at your side to vaes dothrak beneath the mother of mountains, and keep you safe from harm until you take your place with the crones of the dosh khaleen. no more can i promise. she nodded, as calmly as if she had not heard his answer, and turned to the last of her champions. ser jorah mormont, she said, first and greatest of my knights, i have no bride gift to give you, but i swear to you, one day you shall have from my hands a longsword like none the world has ever seen, dragon- forged and made of valyrian steel. and i would ask for your oath as well. you have it, my queen, ser jorah said, kneeling to lay his sword at her feet. i vow to serve you, to obey you, to die for you if need be. whatever may come? whatever may come. i shall hold you to that oath. i pray you never regret the giving of it. dany lifted him to his feet. stretching on her toes to reach his lips, she kissed the knight gently and said, you are the first of my queensguard. she could feel the eyes of the khalasar on her as she entered her tent. the dothraki were muttering and giving her strange sideways looks from the corners of their dark almond eyes. they thought her mad, dany realized. perhaps she was. she would know soon enough. if i look back i am lost. her bath was scalding hot when irri helped her into the tub, but dany did not flinch or cry aloud. she liked the heat. it made her feel clean. jhiqui had scented the water with the oils she had found in the market in vaes dothrak; the steam rose moist and fragrant. doreah washed her hair and combed it out, working loose the mats and tangles. irri scrubbed her back. dany closed her eyes and let the smell and the warmth enfold her. she could feel the heat soaking through the soreness between her thighs. she shuddered when it entered her, and her pain and stiffness seemed to dissolve. she floated. when she was clean, her handmaids helped her from the water. irri and jhiqui fanned her dry, while doreah brushed her hair until it fell like a river of liquid silver down her back. they scented her with spiceflower and cinnamon; a touch on each wrist, behind her ears, on the tips of her milk- heavy breasts. the last dab was for her sex. irri's finger felt as light and cool as a lover's kiss as it slid softly up between her lips. afterward, dany sent them all away, so she might prepare khal drogo for his final ride into the night lands. she washed his body clean and brushed and oiled his hair, running her fingers through it for the last time, feeling the weight of it, remembering the first time she had touched it, the night of their wedding ride. his hair had never been cut. how many men could die with their hair uncut? she buried her face in it and inhaled the dark fragrance of the oils. he smelled like grass and warm earth, like smoke and semen and horses. he smelled like drogo. forgive me, sun of my life, she thought. forgive me for all i have done and all i must do. i paid the price, my star, but it was too high, too high... dany braided his hair and slid the silver rings onto his mustache and hung his bells one by one. so many bells, gold and silver and bronze. bells so his enemies would hear him coming and grow weak with fear. she dressed him in horsehair leggings and high boots, buckling a belt heavy with gold and silver medallions about his waist. over his scarred chest she slipped a painted vest, old and faded, the one drogo had loved best. for herself she chose loose sandsilk trousers, sandals that laced halfway up her legs, and a vest like drogo's. the sun was going down when she called them back to carry his body to the pyre. the dothraki watched in silence as jhogo and aggo bore him from the tent. dany walked behind them. they laid him down on his cushions and silks, his head toward the mother of mountains far to the northeast. oil, she commanded, and they brought forth the jars and poured them over the pyre, soaking the silks and the brush and the bundles of dry grass, until the oil trickled from beneath the logs and the air was rich with fragrance. bring my eggs, dany commanded her handmaids. something in her voice made them run. ser jorah took her arm. my queen, drogo will have no use for dragon's eggs in the night lands. better to sell them in asshai. sell one and we can buy a ship to take us back to the free cities. sell all three and you will be a wealthy woman all your days. they were not given to me to sell, dany told him. she climbed the pyre herself to place the eggs around her sun-andstars. the black beside his heart, under his arm. the green beside his head, his braid coiled around it. the cream-and-gold down between his legs. when she kissed him for the last time, dany could taste the sweetness of the oil on his lips. as she climbed down off the pyre, she noticed mirri maz duur watching her. you are mad, the godswife said hoarsely. is it so far from madness to wisdom? dany asked. ser jorah, take this maegi and bind her to the pyre. to the... my queen, no, hear me... do as i say. still he hesitated, until her anger flared. you swore to obey me, whatever might come. rakharo, help him. the godswife did not cry out as they dragged her to khal drogo's pyre and staked her down amidst his treasures. dany poured the oil over the woman's head herself. i thank you, mirri maz duur, she said, for the lessons you have taught me. you will not hear me scream, mirri responded as the oil dripped from her hair and soaked her clothing. i will, dany said, but it is not your screams i want, only your life. i remember what you told me. only death can pay for life. mirri maz duur opened her mouth, but made no reply. as she stepped away, dany saw that the contempt was gone from the maegi' s flat black eyes; in its place was something that might have been fear. then there was nothing to be done but watch the sun and look for the first star. when a horselord dies, his horse is slain with him, so he might ride proud into the night lands. the bodies are burned beneath the open sky, and the khal rises on his fiery steed to take his place among the stars. the more fiercely the man burned in life, the brighter his star will shine in the darkness. jhogo spied it first. there, he said in a hushed voice. dany looked and saw it, low in the east. the first star was a comet, burning red. bloodred; fire red; the dragon's tail. she could not have asked for a stronger sign. dany took the torch from aggo's hand and thrust it between the logs. the oil took the fire at once, the brush and dried grass a heartbeat later. tiny flames went darting up the wood like swift red mice, skating over the oil and leaping from bark to branch to leaf. a rising heat puffed at her face, soft and sudden as a lover's breath, but in seconds it had grown too hot to bear. dany stepped backward. the wood crackled, louder and louder. mirri maz duur began to sing in a shrill, ululating voice. the flames whirled and writhed, racing each other up the platform. the dusk shimmered as the air itself seemed to liquefy from the heat. dany heard logs spit and crack. the fires swept over mirri maz duur. her song grew louder, shriller... then she gasped, again and again, and her song became a shuddering wail, thin and high and full of agony. and now the flames reached her drogo, and now they were all around him. his clothing took fire, and for an instant the khal was clad in wisps of floating orange silk and tendrils of curling smoke, grey and greasy. dany's lips parted and she found herself holding her breath. part of her wanted to go to him as ser jorah had feared, to rush into the flames to beg for his forgiveness and take him inside her one last time, the fire melting the flesh from their bones until they were as one, forever. she could smell the odor of burning flesh, no different than horseflesh roasting in a firepit. the pyre roared in the deepening dusk like some great beast, drowning out the fainter sound of mirri maz duur's screaming and sending up long tongues of flame to lick at the belly of the night. as the smoke grew thicker, the dothraki backed away, coughing. huge orange gouts of fire unfurled their banners in that hellish wind, the logs hissing and cracking, glowing cinders rising on the smoke to float away into the dark like so many newborn fireflies. the heat beat at the air with great red wings, driving the dothraki back, driving off even mormont, but dany stood her ground. she was the blood of the dragon, and the fire was in her. she had sensed the truth of it long ago, dany thought as she took a step closer to the conflagration, but the brazier had not been hot enough. the flames writhed before her like the women who had danced at her wedding, whirling and singing and spinning their yellow and orange and crimson veils, fearsome to behold, yet lovely, so lovely, alive with heat. dany opened her arms to them, her skin flushed and glowing. this is a wedding, too, she thought. mirri maz duur had fallen silent. the godswife thought her a child, but children grow, and children learn. another step, and dany could feel the heat of the sand on the soles of her feet, even through her sandals. sweat ran down her thighs and between her breasts and in rivulets over her cheeks, where tears had once run. ser jorah was shouting behind her, but he did not matter anymore, only the fire mattered. the flames were so beautiful, the loveliest things she had ever seen, each one a sorcerer robed in yellow and orange and scarlet, swirling long smoky cloaks. she saw crimson firelions and great yellow serpents and unicorns made of pale blue flame; she saw fish and foxes and monsters, wolves and bright birds and flowering trees, each more beautiful than the last. she saw a horse, a great grey stallion limned in smoke, its flowing mane a nimbus of blue flame. yes, my love, my sun-and-stars, yes, mount now, tide now. her vest had begun to smolder, so dany shrugged it off and let it fall to the ground. the painted leather burst into sudden flame as she skipped closer to the fire, her breasts bare to the blaze, streams of milk flowing from her red and swollen nipples. now, she thought, now, and for an instant she glimpsed khal drogo before her, mounted on his smoky stallion, a flaming lash in his hand. he smiled, and the whip snaked down at the pyre, hissing. she heard a crack, the sound of shattering stone. the platform of wood and brush and grass began to shift and collapse in upon itself. bits of burning wood slid down at her, and dany was showered with ash and cinders. and something else came crashing down, bouncing and rolling, to land at her feet; a chunk of curved rock, pale and veined with gold, broken and smoking. the roaring filled the world, yet dimly through the firefall dany heard women shriek and children cry out in wonder. only death can pay for life. and there came a second crack, loud and sharp as thunder, and the smoke stirred and whirled around her and the pyre shifted, the logs exploding as the fire touched their secret hearts. she heard the screams of frightened horses, and the voices of the dothraki raised in shouts of fear and terror, and ser jorah calling her name and cursing. no, she wanted to shout to him, no, my good knight, do not fear.for me. the fire is mine. i am daenerys stormborn, daughter of dragons, bride of dragons, mother of dragons, don't you see? don't you see? with a belch of flame and smoke that reached thirty feet into the sky, the pyre collapsed and came down around her. unafraid, dany stepped forward into the firestorm, calling to her children. the third crack was as loud and sharp as the breaking of the world. when the fire died at last and the ground became cool enough to walk upon, ser jorah mormont found her amidst the ashes, surrounded by blackened logs and bits of glowing ember and the burnt bones of man and woman and stallion. she was naked, covered with soot, her clothes turned to ash, her beautiful hair all crisped away... yet she was unhurt. the cream- and-go id dragon was suckling at her left breast, the green-and-bronze at the right. her arms cradled them close. the black-and-scarlet beast was draped across her shoulders, its long sinuous neck coiled under her chin. when it saw jorah, it raised its head and looked at him with eyes as red as coals. wordless, the knight fell to his knees. the men of her khas came up behind him. jhogo was the first to lay his arakh at her feet. blood of my blood, he murmured, pushing his face to the smoking earth. blood of my blood, she heard aggo echo. blood of my blood, rakharo shouted. and after them came her handmaids, and then the others, all the dothraki, men and women and children, and dany had only to look at their eyes to know that they were hers now, today and tomorrow and forever, hers as they had never been drogo's. as daenerys targaryen rose to her feet, her black hissed, pale smoke venting from its mouth and nostrils. the other two pulled away from her breasts and added their voices to the call, translucent wings unfolding and stirring the air, and for the first time in hundreds of years, the night came alive with the music of dragons. the dothraki named the comet shierak qiya, the bleeding star. the old men muttered that it omened ill, but daenerys targaryen had seen it first on the night she had burned khal drogo, the night her dragons had awakened. it is the herald of my coming, she told herself as she gazed up into the night sky with wonder in her heart. the gods have sent it to show me the way. yet when she put the thought into words, her handmaid doreah quailed. that way lies the red lands, khaleesi. a grim place and terrible, the riders say. the way the comet points is the way we must go, dany insisted... though in truth, it was the only way open to her. she dare not turn north onto the vast ocean of grass they called the dothraki sea. the first khalasar they met would swallow up her ragged band, slaying the warriors and slaving the rest. the lands of the lamb men south of the river were likewise closed to them. they were too few to defend themselves even against that unwarlike folk, and the lhazareen had small reason to love them. she might have struck downriver for the ports at meereen and yunkai and astapor, but rakharo warned her that pono's khalasar had ridden that way, driving thousands of captives before them to sell in the flesh marts that festered like open sores on the shores of slaver's bay. why should i fear pono? dany objected. he was drogo's ko, and always spoke me gently. ko pono spoke you gently, ser jorah mormont said. khal pono will kill you. he was the first to abandon drogo. ten thousand warriors went with him. you have a hundred. no, dany thought. i have four. the rest are women, old sick men' and boys whose hair has never been braided. i have the dragons, she pointed out. hatchlings, ser jorah said. one swipe from an arakh would put an end to them, though porto is more like to seize them for himself. your dragon eggs were more precious than rubies. a living dragon is beyond price. in all the world, there are only three. every man who sees them will want them, my queen. they are mine, she said fiercely. they had been born from her faith and her need, given life by the deaths of her husband and unborn son and the maegi mirri maz duur. dany had walked into the flames as they came forth, and they had drunk milk from her swollen breasts. no man will take them from me while i live. you will not live long should you meet khal pono. nor khal jhaqo, nor any of the others. you must go where they do not. dany had named him the first of her queensguard... and when mormont's gruff counsel and the omens agreed, her course was clear. she called her people together and mounted her silver mare. her hair had burned away in drogo's pyre, so her handmaids garbed her in the skin of the hrakkar drogo had slain, the white lion of the dothraki sea. its fearsome head made a hood to cover her naked scalp, its pelt a cloak that flowed across her shoulders and down her back. the cream-colored dragon sunk sharp black claws into the lion's mane and coiled its tail around her arm, while ser jorah took his accustomed place by her side. we follow the comet, dany told her khalasar. once it was said, no word was raised against it. they had been drogo's people, but they were hers now. the unburnt, they called her, and mother of dragons. her word was their law. they rode by night, and by day took refuge from the sun beneath their tents. soon enough dany learned the truth of doreah's words. this was no kindly country. they left a trail of dead and dying horses behind them as they went, for pono, jhaqo, and the others had seized the best of drogo's herds, leaving to dany the old and the scrawny, the sickly and the lame, the broken animals and the ill-tempered. it was the same with the people. they are not strong, she told herself, so i must be their strength. i must show no fear, no weakness, no doubt. however frightened my heart, when they look upon my face they must see only drogo's queen. she felt older than her fourteen years. if ever she had truly been a girl, that time was done. three days into the march, the first man died. a toothless oldster with cloudy blue eyes, he fell exhausted from his saddle and could not rise again. an hour later he was done. blood flies swarmed about his corpse and carried his ill luck to the living. his time was past, her handmaid irri declared. no man should live longer than his teeth. the others agreed. dany bid them kill the weakest of their dying horses, so the dead man might go mounted into the night lands. two nights later, it was an infant girl who perished. her mother's anguished wailing lasted all day, but there was nothing to be done. the child had been too young to ride, poor thing. not for her the endless black grasses of the night lands; she must be born again. there was little forage in the red waste, and less water. it was a sere and desolate land of low hills and barren windswept plains. the rivers they crossed were dry as dead men's bones. their mounts subsisted on the tough brown devilgrass that grew in clumps at the base of rocks and dead trees. dany sent outriders ranging ahead of the column, but they found neither wells nor springs, only bitter pools, shallow and stagnant, shrinking in the hot sun. the deeper they rode into the waste, the smaller the pools became, while the distance between them grew. if there were gods in this trackless wilderness of stone and sand and red clay, they were hard dry gods, deaf to prayers for rain. wine gave out first, and soon thereafter the clotted mare's milk the horselords loved better than mead. then their stores of flatbread and dried meat were exhausted as well. their hunters found no game, and only the flesh of their dead horses filled their bellies. death followed death. weak children, wrinkled old women, the sick and the stupid and the heedless, the cruel land claimed them all. doreah grew gaunt and hollow-eyed, and her soft golden hair turned brittle as straw. dany hungered and thirsted with the rest of them. the milk in her breasts dried up, her nipples cracked and bled, and the flesh fell away from her day by day until she was lean and hard as a stick, yet it was her dragons she feared for. her father had been slain before she was born, and her splendid brother rhaegar as well. her mother had died bringing her into the world while the storm screamed outside. gentle ser willem darry, who must have loved her after a fashion, had been taken by a wasting sickness when she was very young. her brother viserys, khal drogo who was her sun-and-stars, even her unborn son, the gods had claimed them all. they will not have my dragons, dany vowed. they will not. the dragons were no larger than the scrawny cats she had once seen skulking along the walls of magister illyrio's estate in pentos... until they unfolded their wings. their span was three times their length, each wing a delicate fan of translucent skin, gorgeously colored, stretched taut between long thin bones. when you looked hard, you could see that most of their body was neck, tail, and wing. such little things, she thought as she fed them by hand or rather, tried to feed them, or the dragons would not eat. they would hiss and spit at each bloody morsel of horsemeat, steam rising from their nostrils, yet they would not take the food... until dany recalled something viserys had told her when they were children. only dragons and men eat cooked meat, he had said. when she had her handmaids char the horsemeat black, the dragons ripped at it eagerly, their heads striking like snakes. so long as the meat was seared, they gulped down several times their own weight every day, and at last began to grow larger and stronger. dany marveled at the smoothness of their scales, and the heat that poured off them, so palpable that on cold nights their whole bodies seemed to steam. each evenfall as the khalasai set out, she would choose a dragon to ride upon her shoulder. irri and jhiqui carried the others in a cage of woven wood slung between their mounts, and rode close behind her, so dany was never out of their sight. it was the only way to keep them quiescent. aegon's dragons were named for the gods of old valyria, she told her bloodriders one morning after a long night's journey. visenya's dragon was vhagar, rhaenys had meraxes, and aegon rode balerion, the black dread. it was said that vhagar's breath was so hot that it could melt a knight's armor and cook the man inside, that meraxes swallowed horses whole, and balerion... his fire was as black as his scales, his wings so vast that whole towns were swallowed up in their shadow when he passed overhead. the dothraki looked at her hatchlings uneasily. the largest of her three was shiny black, his scales slashed with streaks of vivid scarlet to match his wings and horns. khaleesi, aggo murmured, there sits balerion, come again. it may be as you say, blood of my blood, dany replied gravely, but he shall have a new name for this new life. i would name them all for those the gods have taken. the green one shall be rhaegal, for my valiant brother who died on the green banks of the trident. the cream-and- gold i call viserion. viserys was cruel and weak and frightened, yet he was my brother still. his dragon will do what he could not. and the black beast? asked ser jorah mormont. the black, she said, is drogon. yet even as her dragons prospered, her khalasar withered and died. around them the land turned ever more desolate. even devilgrass grew scant; horses dropped in their tracks, leaving so few that some of her people must trudge along on foot. doreah took a fever and grew worse with every league they crossed. her lips and hands broke with blood blisters, her hair came out in clumps, and one evenfall she lacked the strength to mount her horse. jhogo said they must leave her or bind her to her saddle, but dany remembered a night on the dothraki sea, when the lysene girl had taught her secrets so that drogo might love her more. she gave doreah water from her own skin, cooled her brow with a damp cloth, and held her hand until she died, shivering. only then would she permit the khalasar to press on. they saw no sign of other travelers. the dothraki began to mutter fearfully that the comet had led them to some hell. dany went to ser jorah one morning as they made camp amidst a jumble of black windscoured stones. are we lost? she asked him. does this waste have no end to it? it has an end, he answered wearily. i have seen the maps the traders draw, my queen. few caravans come this way, that is so, yet there are great kingdoms to the east, and cities full of wonders. yi ti, qarth, asshai by the shadow... will we live to see them? i will not lie to you. the way is harder than i dared think. the knight's face was grey and exhausted. the wound he had taken to his hip the night he fought khal drogo's bloodriders had never fully healed; she could see how he grimaced when he mounted his horse, and he seemed to slump in his saddle as they rode. perhaps we are doomed if we press on... but i know for a certainty that we are doomed if we turn back. dany kissed him lightly on the cheek. it heartened her to see him smile. i must be strong for him as well, she thought grimly. a knight he may be, but i am the blood of the dragon. the next pool they found was scalding hot and stinking of brimstone, but their skins were almost empty. the dothraki cooled the water in jars and pots and drank it tepid. the taste was no less foul, but water was water, and all of them thirsted. dany looked at the horizon with despair. they had lost a third of their number, and still the waste stretched before them, bleak and red and endless. the comet mocks my hopes, she thought, lifting her eyes to where it scored the sky. have i crossed half the world and seen the birth of dragons only to die with them in this hard hot desert? she would not believe it. the next day, dawn broke as they were crossing a cracked and fissured plain of hard red earth. dany was about to command them to make camp when her outriders came racing back at a gallop. a city, khaleesi, they cried. a city pale as the moon and lovely as a maid. an hour's ride, no more. show me, she said. when the city appeared before her, its walls and towers shimmering white behind a veil of heat, it looked so beautiful that dany was certain it must be a mirage. do you know what place this might be? ser jorah. the exile knight gave a weary shake of the head. no, my queen. i have never traveled this far east. the distant white walls promised rest and safety, a chance to heal and grow strong, and dany wanted nothing so much as to rush toward them. instead she turned to her bloodriders. blood of my blood, go ahead of us and learn the name of this city, and what manner of welcome we should expect. ai, khaleesi, said aggo. her riders were not long in returning. rakharo swung down from his saddle. from his medallion belt hung the great curving arakh that dany had bestowed on him when she named him bloodrider. this city is dead, khaleesi. nameless and godless we found it, the gates broken, only wind and flies moving through the streets. jhiqui shuddered. when the gods are gone, the evil ghosts feast by night. such places are best shunned. it is known. it is known, irri agreed. not to me. dany put her heels into her horse and showed them the way, trotting beneath the shattered arch of an ancient gate and down a silent street. ser jorah and her bloodriders followed, and then, more slowly, the rest of the dothraki. how long the city had been deserted she could not know, but the white walls, so beautiful from afar, were cracked and crumbling when seen up close. inside was a maze of narrow crooked alleys. the buildings pressed close, their facades blank, chalky, windowless. everything was white, as if the people who lived here had known nothing of color. they rode past heaps of sun- washed rubble where houses had fallen in, and elsewhere saw the faded scars of fire. at a place where six alleys came together, dany passed an empty marble plinth. dothraki had visited this place before, it would seem. perhaps even now the missing statue stood among the other stolen gods in vaes dothrak. she might have ridden past it a hundred times, never knowing. on her shoulder, viserion hissed. they made camp before the remnants of a gutted palace, on a windswept plaza where devilgrass grew between the paving stones. dany sent out men to search the ruins. some went reluctantly, yet they went... and one scarred old man returned a brief time later, hopping and grinning, his hands overflowing with figs. they were small, withered things, yet her people grabbed for them greedily, jostling and pushing at each other, stuffing the fruit into their cheeks and chewing blissfully. other searchers returned with tales of other fruit trees, hidden behind closed doors in secret gardens. aggo showed her a courtyard overgrown with twisting vines and tiny green grapes, and jhogo discovered a well where the water was pure and cold. yet they found bones too, the skulls of the unburied dead, bleached and broken. ghosts, irri muttered. terrible ghosts. we must not stay here, khaleesi, this is their place. i fear no ghosts. dragons are more powerful than ghosts. and figs are more important. go with jhiqui and find me some clean sand for a bath, and trouble me no more with silly talk. in the coolness of her tent, dany blackened horsemeat over a brazier and reflected on her choices. there was food and water here to sustain them, and enough grass for the horses to regain their strength. how pleasant it would be to wake every day in the same place, to linger among shady gardens, eat figs, and drink cool water, as much as she might desire. when irri and jhiqui returned with pots of white sand, dany stripped and let them scrub her clean. your hair is coming back, khaleesi, jhiqui said as she scraped sand off her back. dany ran a hand over the top of her head, feeling the new growth. dothraki men wore their hair in long oiled braids, and cut them only when defeated. perhaps i should do the same, she thought, to remind them that drogo's strength lives within me now khal drogo had died with his hair uncut, a boast few men could make. across the tent, rhaegal unfolded green wings to flap and flutter a half foot before thumping to the carpet. when he landed, his tail lashed back and forth in fury, and he raised his head and screamed. if i had wings, i would want to fly too, dany thought. the targaryens of old had ridden upon dragonback when they went to war. she tried to imagine what it would feel like, to straddle a dragon's neck and soar high into the air. it would be like standing on a mountaintop, only better. the whole world would be spread out below if i flew high enough, i could even see the seven kingdoms, and reach up and touch the comet. irri broke her reverie to tell her that ser jorah mormont was outside, awaiting her pleasure. send him in, dany commanded, sand-scrubbed skin tingling. she wrapped herself in the lionskin. the hrakkar had been much bigger than dany, so the pelt covered everything that wanted covering. i've brought you a peach, ser jorah said, kneeling. it was so small she could almost hide it in her palm, and overripe too, but when she took the first bite, the flesh was so sweet she almost cried. she ate it slowly, savoring every mouthful, while ser jorah told her of the tree it had been plucked from, in a garden near the western wall. fruit and water and shade, dany said, her cheeks sticky with peach juice. the gods were good to bring us to this place. we should rest here until we are stronger, the knight urged. the red lands are not kind to the weak. my handmaids say there are ghosts here. there are ghosts everywhere, ser jorah said softly. we carry them with us wherever we go. yes, she thought. viserys, khal drogo, my son rhaego, they are with me always. tell me the name of your ghost, jorah. you know all of mine. his face grew very still. her name was lynesse. your wife? my second wife. it pains him to speak of her, dany saw, but she wanted to know the truth. is that all you would say of her? the lion pelt slid off one shoulder and she tugged it back into place. was she beautiful? very beautiful. ser jorah lifted his eyes from her shoulder to her face. the first time i beheld her, i thought she was a goddess come to earth, the maid herself made flesh. her birth was far above my own. she was the youngest daughter of lord leyton hightower of oldtown. the white bull who commanded your father's kingsguard was her greatuncle. the hightowers are an ancient family, very rich and very proud. and loyal, dany said. i remember, viserys said the hightowers were among those who stayed true to my father. that's so, he admitted. did your fathers make the match? no, he said. our marriage... that makes a long tale and a dull one, your grace. i would not trouble you with it. i have nowhere to go, she said. please. as my queen commands. ser jorah frowned. my home... you must understand that to understand the rest. bear island is beautiful, but remote. imagine old gnarled oaks and tall pines, flowering thornbushes, grey stones bearded with moss, little creeks running icy down steep hillsides. the hall of the mormonts is built of huge logs and surrounded by an earthen palisade. aside from a few crofters, my people live along the coasts and fish the seas. the island lies far to the north, and our winters are more terrible than you can imagine, khaleesi. still, the island suited me well enough, and i never lacked for women. i had my share of fishwives and crofter's daughters, before and after i was wed. i married young, to a bride of my father's choosing, a glover of deepwood motte. ten years we were wed, or near enough as makes no matter. she was a plain- faced woman, but not unkind. i suppose i came to love her after a fashion, though our relations were dutiful rather than passionate. three times she miscarried while trying to give me an heir. the last time she never recovered. she died not long after. dany put her hand on his and gave his fingers a squeeze. i am sorry for you, truly. ser jorah nodded. by then my father had taken the black, so i was lord of bear island in my own right. i had no lack of marriage offers, but before i could reach a decision lord balon greyjoy rose in rebellion against the usurper, and ned stark called his banners to help his friend robert. the final battle was on pyke. when robert's stonethrowers opened a breach in king balon' s wall, a priest from myr was the first man through, but i was not far behind. for that i won my knighthood. to celebrate his victory, robert ordained that a tourney should be held outside lannisport. it was there i saw lynesse, a maid half my age. she had come up from oldtown with her father to see her brothers joust. i could not take my eyes off her. in a fit of madness, i begged her favor to wear in the tourney, never dreaming she would grant my request, yet she did. i fight as well as any man, khaleesi, but i have never been a tourney knight. yet with lynesse's favor knotted round my arm, i was a different man. i won joust after joust. lord jason mallister fell before me, and bronze yohn royce. ser ryman frey, his brother ser hosteen, lord whent, strongboar, even ser boros blount of the kingsguard, i unhorsed them all. in the last match, i broke nine lances against jaime lannister to no result, and king robert gave me the champion's laurel. i crowned lynesse queen of love and beauty, and that very night went to her father and asked for her hand. i was drunk, as much on glory as on wine. by rights i should have gotten a contemptuous refusal, but lord leyton accepted my offer. we were married there in lannisport, and for a fortnight i was the happiest man in the wide world. only a fortnight? asked dany. even i was given more happiness than that, with drogo who was my sun-and-stars. a fortnight was how long it took us to sail from lannisport back to bear island. my home was a great disappointment to lynesse. it was too cold, too damp, too far away, my castle no more than a wooden longhall. we had no masques, no mummer shows, no balls or fairs. seasons might pass without a singer ever coming to play for us, and there's not a goldsmith on the island. even meals became a trial. my cook knew little beyond his roasts and stews, and lynesse soon lost her taste for fish and venison. i lived for her smiles, so i sent all the way to oldtown for a new cook, and brought a harper from lannisport. goldsmiths, jewelers, dressmakers, whatever she wanted i found for her, but it was never enough. bear island is rich in bears and trees, and poor in aught else. i built a fine ship for her and we sailed to lannisport and oldtown for festivals and fairs, and once even to braavos, where i borrowed heavily from the money-lenders. it was as a tourney champion that i had won her hand and heart, so i entered other tourneys for her sake, but the magic was gone. i never distinguished myself again, and each defeat meant the loss of another charger and another suit of jousting armor, which must needs be ransomed or replaced. the cost could not be borne. finally i insisted we return home, but there matters soon grew even worse than before. i could no longer pay the cook and the harper, and lynesse grew wild when i spoke of pawning her jewels. the rest... i did things it shames me to speak of. for gold. so lynesse might keep her jewels, her harper, and her cook. in the end it cost me all. when i heard that eddard stark was coming to bear island, i was so lost to honor that rather than stay and face his judgment, i took her with me into exile. nothing mattered but our love, i told myself. we fled to lys, where i sold my ship for gold to keep us. his voice was thick with grief, and dany was reluctant to press him any further, yet she had to know how it ended. did she die there? she asked him gently. only to me, he said. in half a year my gold was gone, and i was obliged to take service as a sellsword. while i was fighting braavosi on the rhoyne, lynesse moved into the manse of a merchant prince named tregar ormollen. they say she is his chief concubine now, and even his wife goes in fear of her. dany was horrified. do you hate her? almost as much as i love her, ser jorah answered. pray excuse me, my queen. i find i am very tired. she gave him leave to go, but as he was lifting the flap of her tent, she could not stop herself calling after him with one last question. what did she look like, your lady lynesse? ser jorah smiled sadly. why, she looked a bit like you, daenerys. he bowed low. sleep well, my queen. dany shivered, and pulled the lionskin tight about her. she looked like me. it explained much that she had not truly understood. he wants me, she realized. he loves me as he loved her, not as a knight loves his queen but as a man loves a woman. she tried to imagine herself in ser jorah' s arms, kissing him, pleasuring him, letting him enter her. it was no good. when she closed her eyes, his face kept changing into drogo's. khal drogo had been her sun-and-stars, her first, and perhaps he must be her last. the maegi mirri maz duur had sworn she should never bear a living child, and what man would want a barren wife? and what man could hope to rival drogo, who had died with his hair uncut and rode now through the night lands, the stars his khalasar? she had heard the longing in ser jorah's voice when he spoke of his bear island. he can never have me, but one day i can give him back his home and honor. that much i can do for him. no ghosts troubled her sleep that night. she dreamed of drogo and the first ride they had taken together on the night they were wed. in the dream it was not horses they rode, but dragons. the next morn, she summoned her bloodriders. blood of my blood, she told the three of them, i have need of you. each of you is to choose three horses, the hardiest and healthiest that remain to us. load as much water and food as your mounts can bear, and ride forth for me. aggo shall strike southwest, rakharo due south. jhogo, you are to follow shierak qiya on southeast. what shall we seek, khaleesi? asked jhogo. whatever there is, dany answered. seek for other cities, living and dead. seek for caravans and people. seek for rivers and lakes and the great salt sea. find how far this waste extends before us, and what lies on the other side. when i leave this place, i do not mean to strike out blind again. i will know where i am bound, and how best to get there. and so they went, the bells in their hair ringing softly, while dany settled down with her small band of survivors in the place they named vaes tolorro, the city of bones. day followed night followed day. women harvested fruit from the gardens of the dead. men groomed their mounts and mended saddles, stirrups, and shoes. children wandered the twisty alleys and found old bronze coins and bits of purple glass and stone flagons with handles carved like snakes. one woman was stung by a red scorpion, but hers was the only death. the horses began to put on some flesh. dany tended ser jorah's wound herself, and it began to heal. rakharo was the first to return. due south the red waste stretched on and on, he reported, until it ended on a bleak shore beside the poison water. between here and there lay only swirling sand, wind-scoured rocks, and plants bristly with sharp thorns. he had passed the bones of a dragon, he swore, so immense that he had ridden his horse through its great black jaws. other than that, he had seen nothing. dany gave him charge of a dozen of her strongest men, and set them to pulling up the plaza to get to the earth beneath. if devilgrass could grow between the paving stones, other grasses would grow when the stones were gone. they had wells enough, no lack of water. given seed, they could make the plaza bloom. aggo was back next. the southwest was barren and burnt, he swore. he had found the ruins of two more cities, smaller than vaes tolorro but otherwise the same. one was warded by a ring of skulls mounted on rusted iron spears, so he dared not enter, but he had explored the second for as long as he could. he showed dany an iron bracelet he had found, set with a uncut fire opal the size of her thumb. there were scrolls as well, but they were dry and crumbling and aggo had left them where they lay. dany thanked him and told him to see to the repair of the gates. if enemies had crossed the waste to destroy these cities in ancient days, they might well come again. if so, we must be ready, she declared. jhogo, was gone so long that dany feared him lost, but finally when they had all but ceased to look for him, he came riding up from the southeast. one of the guards that aggo had posted saw him first and gave a shout, and dany rushed to the walls to see for herself. it was true. jhogo came, yet not alone. behind him rode three queerly garbed strangers atop ugly humped creatures that dwarfed any horse. they drew rein before the city gates, and looked up to see dany on the wall above them. blood of my blood, jhogo called, i have been to the great city qarth, and returned with three who would look on you with their own eyes. dany stared down at the strangers. here i stand. look, if that is your pleasure... but first tell me your names. the pale man with the blue lips replied in guttural dothraki, i am pyat pree, the great warlock. the bald man with the jewels in his nose answered in the valyrian of the free cities, i am xaro xhoan daxos of the thirteen, a merchant prince of qarth. the woman in the lacquered wooden mask said in the common tongue of the seven kingdoms, i am quaithe of the shadow. we come seeking dragons. seek no more, daenerys targaryen told them. you have found them. on the walls of qarth, men beat gongs to herald her coming, while others blew curious horns that encircled their bodies like great bronze snakes. a column of camelry emerged from the city as her honor guards. the riders wore scaled copper armor and snouted helms with copper tusks and long black silk plumes, and sat high on saddles inlaid with rubies and garnets. their camels were dressed in blankets of a hundred different hues. qarth is the greatest city that ever was or ever will be, pyat pree had told her, back amongst the bones of vaes tolorro. it is the center of the world, the gate between north and south, the bridge between east and west, ancient beyond memory of man and so magnificent that saathos the wise put out his eyes after gazing upon qarth for the first time, because he knew that all he saw thereafter should look squalid and ugly by comparison. dany took the warlock's words well salted, but the magnificence of the great city was not to be denied. three thick walls encircled qarth, elaborately carved. the outer was red sandstone, thirty feet high and decorated with animals: snakes slithering, kites flying, fish swimming, intermingled with wolves of the red waste and striped zorses and monstrous elephants. the middle wall, forty feet high, was grey granite alive with scenes of war: the clash of sword and shield and spear, arrows in flight, heroes at battle and babes being butchered, pyres of the dead. the innermost wall was fifty feet of black marble, with carvings that made dany blush until she told herself that she was being a fool. she was no maid; if she could look on the grey wall's scenes of slaughter, why should she avert her eyes from the sight of men and women giving pleasure to one another? the outer gates were banded with copper, the middle with iron; the innermost were studded with golden eyes. all opened at dany's approach. as she rode her silver into the city, small children rushd out to scatter flowers in her path. they wore golden sandals and bright paint, no more. all the colors that had been missing from vaes tolorro had found their way to qarth; buildings crowded about her fantastical as a fever dream in shades of rose, violet, and umber. she passed under a bronze arch fashioned in the likeness of two snakes mating, their scales delicate flakes of jade, obsidian, and lapis lazuli. slim towers stood taller than any dany had ever seen, and elaborate fountains filled every square, wrought in the shapes of griffins and dragons and manticores. the qartheen lined the streets and watched from delicate balconies that looked too frail to support their weight. they were tall pale folk in linen and samite and tiger fur, every one a lord or lady to her eyes. the women wore gowns that left one breast bare, while the men favored beaded silk skirts. dany felt shabby and barbaric as she rode past them in her lionskin robe with black drogon on one shoulder. her dothraki called the qartheen milk men for their paleness, and khal drogo had dreamed of the day when he might sack the great cities of the east. she glanced at her bloodriders, their dark almond-shaped eyes giving no hint of their thoughts. is it only the plunder they see? she wondered. how savage we must seem to these qartheen. pyrat pree conducted her little khalasar down the center of a great arcade where the city's ancient heroes stood thrice life-size on columns of white and green marble. they passed through a bazaar in a cavernous building whose latticework ceiling was home to a thousand gaily colored birds. trees and flowers bloomed on the terraced walls above the stalls, while below it seemed as if everything the gods had put into the world was for sale. her silver shied as the merchant prince xaro xhoan daxos rode up to her; the horses could not abide the close presence of camels, she had found. if you see here anything that you would desire, o most beautiful of women, you have only to speak and it is yours, xaro called down from his ornate horned saddle. qarth itself is hers, she has no need of baubles, blue-lipped pyat pree sang out from her other side. it shall be as i promised, khaleesi. come with me to the house of the undying, and you shall drink of truth and wisdom. why should she need your palace of dust, when i can give her sunlight and sweet water and silks to sleep in? xaro said to the warlock. the thirteen shall set a crown of black jade and fire opals upon her lovely head. the only palace i desire is the red castle at king's landing, my lord pyat. dany was wary of the warlock; the maegi mirri maz duur had soured her on those who played at sorcery. and if the great of qarth would give me gifts, xaro, let them give me ships and swords to win back what is rightfully mine. pyat's blue lips curled upward in a gracious smile, it shall be as you command, khaleesi. he moved away, swaying with his camel's motion, his long beaded robes trailing behind. the young queen is wise beyond her years, xaro xhoan daxos murmured down at her from his high saddle. there is a saying in qarth. a warlock's house is built of bones and lies. then why do men lower their voices when they speak of the warlocks of qarth? all across the east, their power and wisdom are revered. once they were mighty, xaro agreed, but now they are as ludicrous as those feeble old soldiers who boast of their prowess long after strength and skill have left them. they read their crumbling scrolls, drink shade-of-the-evening until their lips turn blue, and hint of dread powers, but they are hollow husks compared to those who went before. pyat pree's gifts will turn to dust in your hands, i warn you. he gave his camel a lick of his whip and sped away. the crow calls the raven black, muttered ser jorah in the common tongue of westeros. the exile knight rode at her right hand, as ever. for their entrance into qarth, he had put away his dothraki garb and donned again the plate and mail and wool of the seven kingdoms half a world away. you would do well to avoid both those men, your grace. those men will help me to my crown, she said. xaro has vast wealth, and pyat pree pretends to power, the knight said brusquely. on his dark green surcoat, the bear of house mormont stood on its hind legs, black and fierce. jorah looked no less ferocious as he scowled at the crowd that filled the bazaar. i would not linger here long, my queen. i mislike the very smell of this place. dany smiled. perhaps it's the camels you're smelling. the qartheen themselves seem sweet enough to my nose. sweet smells are sometimes used to cover foul ones. my great bear, dany thought. i am his queen, but i will always be his cub as well, and he will always guard me. it made her feel safe, but sad as well. she wished she could love him better than she did. xaro xhoan daxos had offered dany the hospitality of his home while she was in the city. she had expected something grand. she had not expected a palace larger than many a market town. it makes magister illyrio's manse in pentos look like a swineherd's hovel, she thought. xaro swore that his home could comfortably house all of her people and their horses besides; indeed, it swallowed them. an entire wing was given over to her. she would have her own gardens, a marble bathing pool, a scrying tower and warlock's maze. slaves would tend her every need. in her private chambers, the floors were green marble, the walls draped with colorful silk hangings that shimmered with every breath of air. you are too generous, she told xaro xhoan daxos. for the mother of dragons, no gift is too great. xaro was a languid, elegant man with a bald head and a great beak of a nose crusted with rubies, opals, and flakes of jade. on the morrow, you shall feast upon peacock and lark's tongue, and hear music worthy of the most beautiful of women. the thirteen will come to do you homage, and all the great of qarth. all the great of qarth will come to see my dragons, dany thought, yet she thanked xaro for his kindness before she sent him on his way. pyat pree took his leave as well, vowing to petition the undying ones for an audience. a honor rare as summer snows. before he left he kissed her bare feet with his pale blue lips and pressed on her a gift, ajar of ointment that he swore would let her see the spirits of the air. last of the three seekers to depart was quaithe the shadowbinder. from her dany received only a warning. beware, the woman in the red lacquer mask said. of whom? of all. they shall come day and night to see the wonder that has been born again into the world, and when they see they shall lust. for dragons are fire made flesh, and fire is power. when quaithe too was gone, ser jo rah said, she speaks truly, my queen... though i like her no more than the others. i do not understand her. pyat and xaro had showered dany with promises from the moment they first glimpsed her dragons, declaring themselves her loyal servants in all things, but from quaithe she had gotten only the rare cryptic word. and it disturbed her that she had never seen the woman's face. remember mirri maz duur, she told herself. remember treachery. she turned to her bloodriders. we will keep our own watch so long as we are here. see that no one enters this wing of the palace without my leave, and take care that the dragons are always well guarded. it shall be done, khaleesi, aggo said. we have seen only the parts of qarth that pyat pree wished us to see, she went on. rakharo, go forth and look on the rest, and tell me what you find. take good men with you-and women, to go places where men are forbidden. as you say, i do, blood of my blood, said rakharo. ser jorah, find the docks and see what manner of ships lay at anchor. it has been half a year since i last heard tidings from the seven kingdoms. perhaps the gods will have blown some good captain here from westeros with a ship to carry us home. the knight frowned. that would be no kindness. the usurper will kill you, sure as sunrise. mormont hooked his thumbs through his swordbelt. my place is here at your side. jhogo can guard me as well. you have more languages than my bloodriders, and the dothraki mistrust the sea and those who sail her. only you can serve me in this. go among the ships and speak to the crews, learn where they are from and where they are bound and what manner of men command them. reluctantly, the exile nodded. as you say, my queen. when all the men had gone, her handmaids stripped off the travelstained silks she wore, and dany padded out to where the marble pool sat in the shade of a portico. the water was deliciously cool, and the pool was stocked with tiny golden fish that nibbled curiously at her skin and made her giggle. it felt good to close her eyes and float, knowing she could rest as long as she liked. she wondered whether aegon's red keep had a pool like this, and fragrant gardens full of lavender and mint. it must, surely. viserys always said the seven kingdoms were more beautiful than any other place in the world. the thought of home disquieted her. if her sun-and-stars had lived, he would have led his khalasar across the poison water and swept away her enemies, but his strength had left the world. her bloodriders remained, sworn to her for life and skilled in slaughter, but only in the ways of the horselords. the dothraki sacked cities and plundered kingdoms, they did not rule them. dany had no wish to reduce king's landing to a blackened ruin full of unquiet ghosts. she had supped enough on tears. i want to make my kingdom beautiful, to fill it with fat men and pretty maids and laughing children. i want my people to smile when they see me ride by, the way viserys said they smiled for my father. but before she could do that she must conquer. the usurper will kill you, sure as sunrise, mormont had said. robert had slain her gallant brother rhaegar, and one of his creatures had crossed the dothraki sea to poison her and her unborn son. they said robert baratheon was strong as a bull and fearless in battle, a man who loved nothing better than war. and with him stood the great lords her brother had named the usurper's dogs, cold-eyed eddard stark with his frozen heart, and the golden lannisters, father and son, so rich, so powerful, so treacherous. how could she hope to overthrow such men? when khal drogo had lived, men trembled and made him gifts to stay his wrath. if they did not, he took their cities, wealth and wives and all. but his khalasar had been vast, while hers was meager. her people had followed her across the red waste as she chased her comet, and would follow her across the poison water too, but they would not be enough. even her dragons might not be enough. viserys had believed that the realm would rise for its rightful king... but viserys had been a fool, and fools believe in foolish things. her doubts made her shiver. suddenly the water felt cold to her, and the little fish prickling at her skin annoying. dany stood and climbed from the pool. irri, she called, jhiqui. as the handmaids toweled her dry and wrapped her in a sandsilk robe, dany's thoughts went to the three who had sought her out in the city of bones. the bleeding star led me to qarth for a purpose. here i will find what i need, if i have the strength to take what is offered, and the wisdom to avoid the traps and snares. if the gods mean for me to conquer, they will provide, they will send me a sign, and if not... if not... it was near evenfall and dany was feeding her dragons when irri stepped through the silken curtains to tell her that ser jorah had returned from the docks... and not alone. send him in, with whomever he has brought, she said, curious. when they entered, she was seated on a mound of cushions, her dragons all about her. the man he brought with him wore a cloak of green and yellow feathers and had skin as black as polished jet. your grace, the knight said, i bring you quhuru mo, captain of the cinnamon wind out of tall trees town. the black man knelt. i am greatly honored, my queen, he said; not in the tongue of the summer isles, which dany did not know, but in the liquid valyrian of the nine free cities. the honor is mine, quhuru mo, said dany in the same language. have you come from the summer isles? this is so, your grace, but before, not half a year past, we called at oldtown. from there i bring you a wondrous gift. a gift? a gift of news. dragonmother, stormborn, i tell you true, robert baratheon is dead. outside her walls, dusk was settling over qarth, but a sun had risen in dany's heart. dead? she repeated. in her lap, black drogon hissed, and pale smoke rose before her face like a veil. you are certain? the usurper is dead? so it is said in oldtown, and dome, and lys, and all the other ports where we have called. he sent me poisoned wine, yet i live and he is gone. what was the manner of his death? on her shoulder, pale viserion flapped wings the color of cream, stirring the air. torn by a monstrous boar whilst hunting in his kingswood, or so i heard in oldtown. others say his queen betrayed him, or his brother, or lord stark who was his hand. yet all the tales agree in this: king robert is dead and in his grave. dany had never looked upon the usurper's face, yet seldom a day had passed when she had not thought of him. his great shadow had lain across her since the hour of her birth, when she came forth amidst blood and storm into a world where she no longer had a place. and now this ebony stranger had lifted that shadow. the boy sits the iron throne now, ser jorah said. king joffrey reigns, quhuru mo agreed, but the lannisters rule. robert's brothers have fled king's landing. the talk is, they mean to claim the crown. and the hand has fallen, lord stark who was king robert's friend. he has been seized for treason. ned stark a traitor? ser jorah snorted. not bloody likely. the long summer will come again before that one would besmirch his precious honor. what honor could he have? dany said. he was a traitor to his true king, as were these lannisters. it pleased her to hear that the usurper's dogs were fighting amongst themselves, though she was unsurprised. the same thing happened when her drogo died, and his great khalasar tore itself to pieces. my brother is dead as well, viserys who was the true king, she told the summer islander. khal drogo my lord husband killed him with a crown of molten gold. would her brother have been any wiser, had he known that the vengeance he had prayed for was so close at hand? then i grieve for you, dragonmother, and for bleeding westeros, bereft of its rightful king. beneath dany's gentle fingers, green rhaegal stared at the stranger with eyes of molten gold. when his mouth opened, his teeth gleamed like black needles. when does your ship return to westeros, captain? not for a year or more, i fear. from here the cinnamon wind sails east, to make the trader's circle round the jade sea. i see, said dany, disappointed. i wish you fair winds and good trading, then. you have brought me a precious gift. i have been amply repaid, great queen. she puzzled at that. how so? his eyes gleamed. i have seen dragons. dany laughed. and will see more of them one day, i hope. come to me in king's landing when i am on my father's throne, and you shall have a great reward. the summer islander promised he would do so, and kissed her lightly on the fingers as he took his leave. jhiqui showed him out, while ser jorah mormont remained. khaleesi, the knight said when they were alone, i should not speak so freely of your plans, if i were you. this man will spread the tale wherever he goes now. let him, she said. let the whole world know my purpose. the usurper is dead, what does it matter? not every sailor's tale is true, ser jorah cautioned, and even if robert be truly dead, his son rules in his place. this changes nothing, truly. this changes everything. dany rose abruptly. screeching, her dragons uncoiled and spread their wings. drogon flapped and clawed up to the lintel over the archway. the others skittered across the floor, wingtips scrabbling on the marble. before, the seven kingdoms were like my drogo's khalasar, a hundred thousand made as one by his strength. now they fly to pieces, even as the khalasar did after my khal lay dead. the high lords have always fought. tell me who's won and i'll tell you what it means. khaleesi, the seven kingdoms are not going to fall into your hands like so many ripe peaches. you will need a fleet, gold, armies, alliances- all this i know. she took his hands in hers and looked up into his dark suspicious eyes. sometimes he thinks of me as a child he must protect, and sometimes as a woman he would like to bed, but does he ever truly see me as his queen? i am not the frightened girl you met in pentos. i have counted only fifteen name days, true... but i am as old as the crones in the dosh khaleen and as young as my dragons, jorah. i have borne a child, burned a khal, and crossed the red waste and the dothraki sea. mine is the blood of the dragon. as was your brother's, he said stubbornly. i am not viserys. no, he admitted. there is more of rhaegar in you, i think, but even rhaegar could be slain. robert proved that on the trident, with no more than a warhammer. even dragons can die. dragons die. she stood on her toes to kiss him lightly on an unshaven cheek. but so do dragons layers. the drapes kept out the dust and heat of the streets, but they could not keep out disappointment. dany climbed inside wearily, glad for the refuge from the sea of qartheen eyes. make way, jhogo shouted at the crowd from horseback, snapping his whip, make way, make way for the mother of dragons. reclining on cool satin cushions, xaro xhoan daxos poured ruby-red wine into matched goblets of jade and gold, his hands sure and steady despite the sway of the palanquin. i see a deep sadness written upon your face, my light of love. he offered her a goblet. could it be the sadness of a lost dream? a dream delayed, no more. dany's tight silver collar was chafing against her throat. she unfastened it and flung it aside. the collar was set with an enchanted amethyst that xaro swore would ward her against all poisons. the pureborn were notorious for offering poisoned wine to those they thought dangerous, but they had not given dany so much as a cup of water. they never saw me for a queen, she thought bitterly. i was only an afternoon's amusement, a horse girl with a curious pet. rhaegal hissed and dug sharp black claws into her bare shoulder as dany stretched out a hand for the wine. wincing, she shifted him to her other shoulder, where he could claw her gown instead of her skin. she was garbed after the qartheen fashion. xaro had warned her that the enthroned would never listen to a dothraki, so she had taken care to go before them in flowing green samite with one breast bared, silvered sandals on her feet, with a belt of black-and-white pearls about her waist. for all the help they offered, i could have gone naked. perhaps i should have. she drank deep. descendants of the ancient kings and queens of qarth, the pureborn commanded the civic guard and the fleet of ornate galleys that ruled the straits between the seas. daenerys targaryen had wanted that fleet, or part of it, and some of their soldiers as well. she made the traditional sacrifice in the temple of memory, offered the traditional bribe to the keeper of the long list, sent the traditional persimmon to the opener of the door, and finally received the traditional blue silk slippers summoning her to the hall of a thousand thrones. the pureborn heard her pleas from the great wooden seats of their ancestors, rising in curved tiers from a marble floor to a high-domed ceiling painted with scenes of qarth's vanished glory. the chairs were immense, fantastically carved, bright with goldwork and studded with amber, onyx, lapis, and jade, each one different from all the others, and each striving to be the most fabulous. yet the men who sat in them seemed so listless and world-weary that they might have been asleep. they listened, but they did not hear, or care, she thought. they are milk men indeed. they never meant to help me. they came because they were curious. they came because they were bored, and the dragon on my shoulder interested them more than i did. tell me the words of the pureborn, prompted xaro xhoan daxos. tell me what they said to sadden the queen of my heart. they said no. the wine tasted of pomegranates and hot summer days. they said it with great courtesy, to be sure, but under all the lovely words, it was still no. did you flatter them? shamelessly. did you weep? the blood of the dragon does not weep, she said testily. xaro sighed. you ought to have wept. the qartheen wept often and easily; it was considered a mark of the civilized man. the men we bought, what did they say? mathos said nothing. wendello praised the way i spoke. the exquisite refused me with the rest, but he wept afterward. alas, that qartheen should be so faithless. xaro was not himself of the pureborn, but he had told her whom to bribe and how much to offer. weep, weep, for the treachery of men. dany would sooner have wept for her gold. the bribes she'd tendered to mathos mallarawan, wendello qar deeth, and egon emeros the exquisite might have bought her a ship, or hired a score of sellswords. suppose i sent ser jorah to demand the return of my gifts? she asked. suppose a sorrowful man came to my palace one night and killed you as you slept, said xaro. the sorrowful men were an ancient sacred guild of assassins, so named because they always whispered, i am so sorry, to their victims before they killed them. the qartheen were nothing if not polite. it is wisely said that it is easier to milk the stone cow of faros than to wring gold from the pureborn. dany did not know where faros was, but it seemed to her that qarth was full of stone cows. the merchant princes, grown vastly rich off the trade between the seas, were divided into three jealous factions: the ancient guild of spicers, the tourmaline brotherhood, and the thirteen, to which xaro belonged. each vied with the others for dominance, and all three contended endlessly with the pureborn. and brooding over all were the warlocks, with their blue lips and dread powers, seldom seen but much feared. she would have been lost without xaro. the gold that she had squandered to open the doors of the hall of a thousand thrones was largely a product of the merchant's generosity and quick wits. as the rumor of living dragons had spread through the east, ever more seekers had come to learn if the tale was true- and xaro xhoan daxos saw to it that the great and the humble alike offered some token to the mother of dragons. the trickle he started soon swelled to a flood. trader captains brought lace from myr, chests of saffron from yi ti, amber and dragonglass out of asshai. merchants offered bags of coin, silversmiths rings and chains. pipers piped for her, tumblers tumbled, and jugglers juggled, while dyers draped her in colors she had never known existed. a pair of jogos nhai presented her with one of their striped zorses, black and white and fierce. a widow brought the dried corpse of her husband, covered with a crust of silvered leaves; such remnants were believed to have great power, especially if the deceased had been a sorcerer, as this one had. and the tourmaline brotherhood pressed on her a crown wrought in the shape of a three-headed dragon; the coils were yellow gold, the wings silver, the heads carved from jade, ivory, and onyx. the crown was the only offering she'd kept. the rest she sold, to gather the wealth she had wasted on the pureborn. xaro would have sold the crown too- the thirteen would see that she had a much finer one, he swore-but dany forbade it. viserys sold my mother's crown, and men called him a beggar. i shall keep this one, so men will call me a queen. and so she did, though the weight of it made her neck ache. yet even crowned, i am a beggar still, dany thought. i have become the most splendid beggar in the world, but a beggar all the same. she hated it, as her brother must have. all those years of running from city to city one step ahead of the usurper's knives, pleading for help from archons and princes and magisters, buying our food with flattery. he must have known how they mocked him. small wonder he turned so angry and bitter. in the end it had driven him mad. it will do the same to me if i let it. part of her would have liked nothing more than to lead her people back to vaes tolorro, and make the dead city bloom. no, that is defeat. i have something viserys never had. i have the dragons. the dragons are all the difference. she stroked rhaegal. the green dragon closed his teeth around the meat of her hand and nipped hard. outside, the great city murmured and thrummed and seethed, all its myriad voices blending into one low sound like the surge of the sea. make way, you milk men, make way for the mother of dragons, jhogo cried, and the qartheen moved aside, though perhaps the oxen had more to do with that than his voice. through the swaying draperies, dany caught glimpses of him astride his grey stallion. from time to time he gave one of the oxen a flick with the silver- handled whip she had given him. aggo guarded on her other side, while rakharo rode behind the procession, watching the faces in the crowd for any sign of danger. ser jo rah she had left behind today, to guard her other dragons; the exile knight had been opposed to this folly from the start. he distrusts everyone, she reflected, and perhaps for good reason. as dany lifted her goblet to drink, rhaegal sniffed at the wine and drew his head back, hissing. your dragon has a good nose. xaro wiped his lips. the wine is ordinary. it is said that across the jade sea they make a golden vintage so fine that one sip makes all other wines taste like vinegar. let us take my pleasure barge and go in search of it, you and i. the arbor makes the best wine in the world, dany declared. lord redwyne had fought for her father against the usurper, she remembered, one of the few to remain true to the last. will he fight for me as well? there was no way to be certain after so many years. come with me to the arbor, xaro, and you'll have the finest vintages you ever tasted. but we'll need to go in a warship, not a pleasure barge. i have no warships. war is bad for trade. many times i have told you, xaro xhoan daxos is a man of peace. xaro xhoan daxos is a man of gold, she thought, and gold will buy me all the ships and swords i need. i have not asked you to take up a sword, only to lend me your ships. he smiled modestly. of trading ships i have a few, that is so. who can say how many? one may be sinking even now, in some stormy corner of the summer sea. on the morrow, another will fall afoul of corsairs. the next day, one of my captains may look at the wealth in his hold and think, all this should belong to me. such are the perils of trade. why, the longer we talk, the fewer ships i am likely to have. i grow poorer by the instant. give me ships, and i will make you rich again. marry me, bright light, and sail the ship of my heart. i cannot sleep at night for thinking of your beauty. dany smiled. xaro's flowery protestations of passion amused her, but his manner was at odds with his words. while ser jorah had scarcely been able to keep his eyes from her bare breast when he'd helped her into the palanquin, xaro hardly deigned to notice it, even in these close confines. and she had seen the beautiful boys who surrounded the merchant prince, flitting through his palace halls in wisps of silk. you speak sweetly, xaro, but under your words i hear another no. this iron throne you speak of sounds monstrous cold and hard. i cannot bear the thought of jagged barbs cutting your sweet skin. the jewels in xaro's nose gave him the aspect of some strange glittery bird. his long, elegant fingers waved dismissal. let this be your kingdom, most exquisite of queens, and let me be your king. i will give you a throne of gold, if you like. when qarth begins to pall, we can journey round yi ti and search for the dreaming city of the poets, to sip the wine of wisdom from a dead man's skull. i mean to sail to westeros, and drink the wine of vengeance from the skull of the usurper. she scratched rhaegal under one eye, and his jadegreen wings unfolded for a moment, stirring the still air in the palanquin. a single perfect tear ran down the cheek of xaro xhoan daxos. will nothing turn you from this madness? nothing, she said, wishing she was as certain as she sounded. if each of the thirteen would lend me ten ships- you would have one hundred thirty ships, and no crew to sail them. the justice of your cause means naught to the common men of qarth. why should my sailors care who sits upon the throne of some kingdom at the edge of the world? i will pay them to care. with what coin, sweet star of my heaven? with the gold the seekers bring. that you may do, xaro acknowledged, but so much caring will cost dear. you will need to pay them far more than i do, and all of qarth laughs at my ruinous generosity. if the thirteen will not aid me, perhaps i should ask the guild of spicers or the tourmaline brotherhood? xaro gave a languid shrug. they will give you nothing but flattery and lies. the spicers are dissemblers and braggarts and the brotherhood is full of pirates. then i must heed pyat free, and go to the warlocks. the merchant prince sat up sharply. pyat pree has blue lips, and it is truly said that blue lips speak only lies. heed the wisdom of one who loves you. warlocks are bitter creatures who eat dust and drink of shadows. they will give you naught. they have naught to give. i would not need to seek sorcerous help if my friend xaro xhoan daxos would give me what i ask. i have given you my home and heart, do they mean nothing to you? i have given you perfume and pomegranates, tumbling monkeys and spitting snakes, scrolls from lost valyria, an idol's head and a serpent's foot. i have given you this palanquin of ebony and gold, and a matched set of bullocks to bear it, one white as ivory and one black as jet, with horns inlaid with jewels. yes, dany said. but it was ships and soldiers i wanted. did i not give you an army, sweetest of women? a thousand knights, each in shining armor. the armor had been made of silver and gold, the knights of jade and beryl and onyx and tourmaline, of amber and opal and amethyst, each as tall as her little finger. a thousand lovely knights, she said, but not the sort my enemies need fear. and my bullocks cannot carry me across the water, i-why are we stopping? the oxen had slowed notably. khaleesi, aggo called through the drapes as the palanquin jerked to a sudden halt. dany rolled onto an elbow to lean out. they were on the fringes of the bazaar, the way ahead blocked by a solid wall of people. what are they looking at? jhogo rode back to her. a firemage, khaleesi. i want to sec. then you must. the dothraki offered a hand down. when she took it, he pulled her up onto his horse and sat her in front of him, where she could see over the heads of the crowd. the firemage had conjured a ladder in the air, a crackling orange ladder of swirling flame that rose unsupported from the floor of the bazaar, reaching toward the high latticed roof. most of the spectators, she noticed, were not of the city: she saw sailors off trading ships, merchants come by caravan, dusty men out of the red waste, wandering soldiers, craftsmen, slavers. jhogo, slid one hand about her waist and leaned close. the milk men shun him. khaleesi, do you see the girl in the felt hat? there, behind the fat priest. she is a- -cutpurse, finished dany. she was no pampered lady, blind to such things. she had seen cutpurses aplenty in the streets of the free cities, during the years she'd spent with her brother, running from the usurper's hired knives. the mage was gesturing, urging the flames higher and higher with broad sweeps of his arms. as the watchers craned their necks upward, the cutpurses squirmed through the press, small blades hidden in their palms. they relieved the prosperous of their coin with one hand while pointing upward with the other. when the fiery ladder stood forty feet high, the mage leapt forward and began to climb it, scrambling up hand over hand as quick as a monkey. each rung he touched dissolved behind him, leaving no more than a wisp of silver smoke. when he reached the top, the ladder was gone and so was he. a fine trick, announced jhogo with admiration. no trick, a woman said in the common tongue. dany had not noticed quaithe in the crowd, yet there she stood, eyes wet and shiny behind the implacable red lacquer mask. what mean you, my lady? haifa year gone, that man could scarcely wake fire from dragonglass. he had some small skill with powders and wildfire, sufficient to entrance a crowd while his cutpurses did their work. he could walk across hot coals and make burning roses bloom in the air, but he could no more aspire to climb the fiery ladder than a common fisherman could hope to catch a kraken in his nets. dany looked uneasily at where the ladder had stood. even the smoke was gone now, and the crowd was breaking up, each man going about his business. in a moment more than a few would find their purses flat and empty. and now? and now his powers grow, khaleesi. and you are the cause of it. me? she laughed. how could that be? the woman stepped closer and lay two fingers on dany's wrist. you are the mother of dragons, are you not? she is, and no spawn of shadows may touch her. jhogo brushed quaithe's fingers away with the handle of his whip. the woman took a step backward. you must leave this city soon, daenerys targaryen, or you will never be permitted to leave it at all. dany's wrist still tingled where quaithe had touched her. where would you have me go? she asked. to go north, you must journey south. to reach the west, you must go east. to go forward you must go back, and to touch the light you must pass beneath the shadow. asshai, dany thought. she would have me go to asshai. will the asshai'i give me an army? she demanded. will there be gold for me in asshai? will there be ships? what is there in asshai that i will not find in qarth? truth, said the woman in the mask. and bowing, she faded back into the crowd. rakharo snorted contempt through his drooping black mustachios. khaleesi, better a man should swallow scorpions than trust in the spawn of shadows, who dare not show their face beneath the sun. it is known. it is known, aggo agreed. xaro xhoan daxos had watched the whole exchange from his cushions. when dany climbed back into the palanquin beside him, he said, your savages are wiser than they know. such truths as the asshai'i hoard are not like to make you smile. then he pressed another cup of wine on her, and spoke of love and lust and other trifles all the way back to his manse. in the quiet of her chambers, dany stripped off her finery and donned a loose robe of purple silk. her dragons were hungry, so she chopped up a snake and charred the pieces over a brazier. they are growing, she realized as she watched them snap and squabble over the blackened flesh. they must weigh twice what they had in vaes tolorro. even so, it would be years before they were large enough to take to war. and they must be trained as well, or they will lay my kingdom waste. for all her targaryen blood, dany had not the least idea of how to train a dragon. ser jorah mormont came to her as the sun was going down. the pureborn refused you? as you said they would. come, sit, give me your counsel. dany drew him down to the cushions beside her, and jhiqui brought them a bowl of purple olives and onions drowned in wine. you will get no help in this city, khaleesi. ser jorah took an onion between thumb and forefinger. each day i am more convinced of that than the day before. the pureborn see no farther than the walls of qarth, and xaro... he asked me to marry him again. yes, and i know why. when the knight frowned, his heavy black brows joined together above his deep-set eyes. he dreams of me, day and night. she laughed. forgive me, my queen, but it is your dragons he dreams of. xaro assures me that in qarth, man and woman each retain their own property after they are wed. the dragons are mine. she smiled as drogon came hopping and flapping across the marble floor to crawl up on the cushion beside her. he tells it true as far as it goes, but there's one thing he failed to mention. the qartheen have a curious wedding custom, my queen. on the day of their union, a wife may ask a token of love from her husband. whatsoever she desires of his worldly goods, he must grant. and he may ask the same of her. one thing only may be asked, but whatever is named may not be denied. one thing, she repeated. and it may not be denied? with one dragon, xaro xhoan daxos would rule this city, but one ship will further our cause but little. dany nibbled at an onion and reflected ruefully on the faithlessness of men. we passed through the bazaar on our way back from the hall of a thousand thrones, she told ser jorah. quaithe was there. she told him of the firemage and the fiery ladder, and what the woman in the red mask had told her. i would be glad to leave this city, if truth be told, the knight said when she was done. but not for asshai. where, then? east, he said. i am half a world away from my kingdom even here. if i go any farther east i may never find my way home to westeros. if you go west, you risk your life. house targaryen has friends in the free cities, she reminded him. truer friends than xaro or the pureborn. if you mean illyrio mopatis, i wonder. for sufficient gold, illyrio would sell you as quickly as he would a slave. my brother and i were guests in illyrio's manse for half a year. if he meant to sell us, he could have done it then. he did sell you, ser jorah said. to khal drogo. dany flushed. he had the truth of it, but she did not like the sharpness with which he put it. illyrio protected us from the usurper's knives, and he believed in my brother's cause. illyrio believes in no cause but illyrio. gluttons are greedy men as a rule, and magisters are devious. illyrio mopatis is both. what do you truly know of him? i know that he gave me my dragon eggs. he snorted. if he'd known they were like to hatch, he'd would have sat on them himself. that made her smile despite herself. oh, i have no doubt of that, ser. i know illyrio better than you think. i was a child when i left his manse in pentos to wed my sun-and-stars, but i was neither deaf nor blind. and i am no child now. even if illyrio is the friend you think him, the knight said stubbornly, he is not powerful enough to enthrone you by himself, no more than he could your brother. he is rich, she said. not so rich as xaro, perhaps, but rich enough to hire ships for me, and men as well. sellswords have their uses, ser jorah admitted, but you will not win your father's throne with sweepings from the free cities. nothing knits a broken realm together so quick as an invading army on its soil. i am their rightful queen, dany protested. you are a stranger who means to land on their shores with an army of outlanders who cannot even speak the common tongue. the lords of westeros do not know you, and have every reason to fear and mistrust you. you must win them over before you sail. a few at least. and how am i to do that, if i go east as you counsel? he ate an olive and spit out the pit into his palm. i do not know, your grace, he admitted, but i do know that the longer you remain in one place, the easier it will be for your enemies to find you. the name targaryen still frightens them, so much so that they sent a man to murder you when they heard you were with child. what will they do when they learn of your dragons? drogon was curled up beneath her arm, as hot as a stone that has soaked all day in the blazing sun. rhaegal and viserion were fighting over a scrap of meat, buffeting each other with their wings as smoke hissed from their nostrils. my furious children, she thought. they must not come to harm. the comet led me to qarth for a reason. i had hoped to find my army here, but it seems that will not be. what else remains, i ask myself? i am afraid, she realized, but i must be brave. come the morrow, you must go to pyat pree. in this city of splendors, dany had expected the house of the undying ones to be the most splendid of all, but she emerged from her palanquin to behold a grey and ancient ruin. long and low, without towers or windows, it coiled like a stone serpent through a grove of black-barked trees whose inky blue leaves made the stuff of the sorcerous drink the qartheen called shade of the evening. no other buildings stood near. black tiles covered the palace roof, many fallen or broken; the mortar between the stones was dry and crumbling. she understood now why xaro xhoan daxos called it the palace of dust. even drogon seemed disquieted by the sight of it. the black dragon hissed, smoke seeping out between his sharp teeth. blood of my blood, jhogo said in dothraki, this is an evil place, a haunt of ghosts and maegi. see how it drinks the morning sun? let us go before it drinks us as well. ser jorah mormont came up beside them. what power can they have if they live in that? heed the wisdom of those who love you best, said xaro xhoan daxos, lounging inside the palanquin. warlocks are bitter creatures who eat dust and drink of shadows. they will give you naught. they have naught to give. aggo put a hand on his arakh. khaleesi, it is said that many go into the palace of dust, but few come out. it is said, jhogo agreed. we are blood of your blood, said aggo, sworn to live and die as you do. let us walk with you in this dark place, to keep you safe from harm. some places even a khal must walk alone, dany said. take me, then, ser jorah urged. the risk- queen daenerys must enter alone, or not at all. the warlock pyat pree stepped out from under the trees. has he been there all along? dany wondered. should she turn away now, the doors of wisdom shall be closed to her forevermore. my pleasure barge awaits, even now, xaro xhoan daxos called out. turn away from this folly, most stubborn of queens. i have flutists who will soothe your troubled soul with sweet music, and a small girl whose tongue will make you sigh and melt. ser jorah mormont gave the merchant prince a sour look. your grace, remember mirri maz duur. i do, dany said, suddenly decided. i remember that she had knowledge. and she was only a maegi. pyat pree smiled thinly. the child speaks as sagely as a crone. take my arm, and let me lead you. i am no child. dany took his arm nonetheless. it was darker than she would have thought under the black trees, and the way was longer. though the path seemed to run straight from the street to the door of the palace, pyat pree soon turned aside. when she questioned him, the warlock said only, the front way leads in, but never out again. heed my words, my queen. the house of the undying ones was not made for mortal men. if you value your soul, take care and do just as i tell you. i will do as you say, dany promised. when you enter, you will find yourself in a room with four doors: the one you have come through and three others. take the door to your right. each time, the door to your right. if you should come upon a stairwell, climb. never go down, and never take any door but the first door to your right. the door to my right, dany repeated. i understand. and when i leave, the opposite? by no means, pyat pree said. leaving and coming, it is the same. always up. always the door to your right, other doors may open to you. within, you will see many things that disturb you. visions of loveliness and visions of horror, wonders and terrors. sights and sounds of days gone by and days to come and days that never were. dwellers and servitors may speak to you as you go. answer or ignore them as you choose, but enter no room until you reach the audience chamber. i understand. when you come to the chamber of the undying, be patient. our little lives are no more than a flicker of a moth's wing to them. listen well, and write each word upon your heart. when they reached the door-a tall oval mouth, set in a wall fashioned in the likeness of a human face-the smallest dwarf dany had ever seen was waiting on the threshold. he stood no higher than her knee, his faced pinched and pointed, snoutish, but he was dressed in delicate livery of purple and blue, and his tiny pink hands held a silver tray. upon it rested a slender crystal glass filled with a thick blue liquid: shade of the evening, the wine of warlocks. take and drink, urged pyat pree. will it turn my lips blue? one flute will serve only to unstop your ears and dissolve the caul from off your eyes, so that you may hear and see the truths that will be laid before you. dany raised the glass to her lips. the first sip tasted like ink and spoiled meat, foul, but when she swallowed it seemed to come to life within her. she could feel tendrils spreading through her chest, like fingers of fire coiling around her heart, and on her tongue was a taste like honey and anise and cream, like mother's milk and drogo's seed, like red meat and hot blood and molten gold. it was all the tastes she had ever known, and none of them... and then the glass was empty. now you may enter, said the warlock. dany put the glass back on the servitor's tray, and went inside. she found herself in a stone anteroom with four doors, one on each wall. with never a hesitation, she went to the door on her right and stepped through. the second room was a twin to the first. again she turned to the right-hand door. when she pushed it open she faced yet another small antechamber with four doors. i am in the presence of sorcery. the fourth room was oval rather than square and walled in wormeaten wood in place of stone. six passages led out from it in place of four. dany chose the rightmost, and entered a long, dim, high-ceilinged hall. along the right hand was a row of torches burning with a smoky orange light, but the only doors were to her left. drogon unfolded wide black wings and beat the stale air. he flew twenty feet before thudding to an undignified crash. dany strode after him. the mold-eaten carpet under her feet had once been gorgeously colored, and whorls of gold could still be seen in the fabric, glinting broken amidst the faded grey and mottled green. what remained served to muffle her footfalls, but that was not all to the good. dany could hear sounds within the walls, a faint scurrying and scrabbling that made her think of rats. drogon heard them too. his head moved as he followed the sounds, and when they stopped he gave an angry scream. other sounds, even more disturbing, came through some of the closed doors. one shook and thumped, as if someone were trying to break through. from another came a dissonant piping that made the dragon lash his tail wildly from side to side. dany hurried quickly past. not all the doors were closed. i will not look, dany told herself, but the temptation was too strong. in one room, a beautiful woman sprawled naked on the floor while four little men crawled over her. they had rattish pointed faces and tiny pink hands, like the servitor who had brought her the glass of shade. one was pumping between her thighs. another savaged her breasts, worrying at the nipples with his wet red mouth, tearing and chewing. farther on she came upon a feast of corpses. savagely slaughtered, the feasters lay strewn across overturned chairs and hacked trestle tables, asprawl in pools of congealing blood. some had lost limbs, even heads. severed hands clutched bloody cups, wooden spoons, roast fowl, heels of bread, in a throne above them sat a dead man with the head of a wolf. he wore an iron crown and held a leg of lamb in one hand as a king might hold a scepter, and his eyes followed dany with mute appeal. she fled from him, but only as far as the next open door. i know this room, she thought. she remembered those great wooden beams and the carved animal faces that adorned them. and there outside the window, a lemon tree! the sight of it made her heart ache with longing. it is the house with the red door, the house in braavos. no sooner had she thought it than old ser willem came into the room, leaning heavily on his stick. little princess, there you are, he said in his gruff kind voice. come, he said, come to me, my lady, you're home now, you're safe now. his big wrinkled hand reached for her, soft as old leather, and dany wanted to take it and hold it and kiss it, she wanted that as much as she had ever wanted anything. her foot edged forward, and then she thought, he's dead, he's dead, the sweet old bear, he died a long time ago. she backed away and ran. the long hall went on and on and on, with endless doors to her left and only torches to her right. she ran past more doors than she could count, closed doors and open ones, doors of wood and doors of iron, carved doors and plain ones, doors with pulls and doors with locks and doors with knockers. drogon lashed against her back, urging her on, and dany ran until she could run no more. finally a great pair of bronze doors appeared to her left, grander than the rest. they swung open as she neared, and she had to stop and look. beyond loomed a cavernous stone hall, the largest she had ever seen. the skulls of dead dragons looked down from its walls. upon a towering barbed throne sat an old man in rich robes, an old man with dark eyes and long silver-grey hair. let him be king over charred bones and cooked meat, he said to a man below him. let him be the king of ashes. drogon shrieked, his claws digging through silk and skin, but the king on his throne never heard, and dany moved on. viserys, was her first thought the next time she paused, but a second glance told her otherwise. the man had her brother's hair, but he was taller, and his eyes were a dark indigo rather than lilac. aegon, he said to a woman nursing a newborn babe in a great wooden bed. what better name for a king? will you make a song for him? the woman asked. he has a song, the man replied. he is the prince that was promised, and his is the song of ice and fire. he looked up when he said it and his eyes met dany's, and it seemed as if he saw her standing there beyond the door. there must be one more, he said, though whether he was speaking to her or the woman in the bed she could not say. the dragon has three heads. he went to the window seat, picked up a harp, and ran his fingers lightly over its silvery strings. sweet sadness filled the room as man and wife and babe faded like the morning mist, only the music lingering behind to speed her on her way. it seemed as though she walked for another hour before the long hall finally ended in a steep stone stair, descending into darkness. every door, open or closed, had been to her left. dany looked back behind her. the torches were going out, she realized with a start of fear. perhaps twenty still burned. thirty at most. one more guttered out even as she watched, and the darkness came a little farther down the hall, creeping toward her. and as she listened it seemed as if she heard something else coming, shuffling and dragging itself slowly along the faded carpet. terror filled her. she could not go back and she was afraid to stay here, but how could she go on? there was no door on her right, and the steps went down, not up. yet another torch went out as she stood pondering, and the sounds grew faintly louder. drogon's long neck snaked out and he opened his mouth to scream, steam rising from between his teeth. he hears it too. dany turned to the blank wall once more, but there was nothing. could there be a secret door, a door i cannot see? another torch went out. another. the first door on the right, he said, always the first door on the right. the first door on the right... it came to her suddenly.... is the last door on the left! she flung herself through. beyond was another small room with four doors. to the right she went, and to the right, and to the right, and to the right, and to the right, and to the right, and to the right, until she was dizzy and out of breath once more. when she stopped, she found herself in yet another dank stone chamber... but this time the door opposite was round, shaped like an open mouth, and pyat pree stood outside in the grass beneath the trees. can it be that the undying are done with you so soon? he asked in disbelief when he saw her. so soon? she said, confused. i've walked for hours, and still not found them. you have taken a wrong turning. come, i will lead you. pyat pree held out his hand. dany hesitated. there was a door to her right, still closed... that's not the way, pyat pree said firmly, his blue lips prim with disapproval. the undying ones will not wait forever. our little lives are no more than a flicker of a moth's wing to them, dany said, remembering. stubborn child. you will be lost, and never found. she walked away from him, to the door on the right. no, pyat screeched. no, to me, come to me, to meeeeeee. his face crumbled inward, changing to something pale and wormlike. dany left him behind, entering a stairwell. she began to climb. before long her legs were aching. she recalled that the house of the undying ones had seemed to have no towers. finally the stair opened. to her right, a set of wide wooden doors had been thrown open. they were fashioned of ebony and weirwood, the black and white grains swirling and twisting in strange interwoven patterns. they were very beautiful, yet somehow frightening. the blood of the dragon must not be afraid. dany said a quick prayer, begging the warrior for courage and the dothraki horse god for strength. she made herself walk forward. beyond the doors was a great hall and a splendor of wizards. some wore sumptuous robes of ermine, ruby velvet, and cloth of gold. others fancied elaborate armor studded with gemstones, or tall pointed hats speckled with stars. there were women among them, dressed in gowns of surpassing loveliness. shafts of sunlight slanted through windows of stained glass, and the air was alive with the most beautiful music she had ever heard. a kingly man in rich robes rose when he saw her, and smiled. daenerys of house targaryen, be welcome. come and share the food of forever. we are the undying of qarth. long have we awaited you, said a woman beside him, clad in rose and silver. the breast she had left bare in the qartheen fashion was as perfect as a breast could be. we knew you were to come to us, the wizard king said. a thousand years ago we knew, and have been waiting all this time. we sent the comet to show you the way. we have knowledge to share with you, said a warrior in shining emerald armor, and magic weapons to arm you with. you have passed every trial. now come and sit with us, and all your questions shall be answered. she took a step forward. but then drogon leapt from her shoulder. he flew to the top of the ebony-and-weirwood door, perched there, and began to bite at the carved wood. a willful beast, laughed a handsome young man. shall we teach you the secret speech of dragonkind? come, come. doubt seized her. the great door was so heavy it took all of dany's strength to budge it, but finally it began to move. behind was another door, hidden. it was old grey wood, splintery and plain... but it stood to the right of the door through which she'd entered. the wizards were beckoning her with voices sweeter than song. she ran from them, drogon flying back down to her. through the narrow door she passed, into a chamber awash in gloom. a long stone table filled this room. above it floated a human heart, swollen and blue with corruption, yet still alive. it beat, a deep ponderous throb of sound, and each pulse sent out a wash of indigo light. the figures around the table were no more than blue shadows. as dany walked to the empty chair at the foot of the table, they did not stir, nor speak, nor turn to face her. there was no sound but the slow, deep beat of the rotting heart. ...mother of dragons... came a voice, part whisper and part moan... . dragons... dragons... dragons... other voices echoed in the gloom. some were male and some female. one spoke with the timbre of a child. the floating heart pulsed from dimness to darkness. it was hard to summon the will to speak, to recall the words she had practiced so assiduously. i am daenerys stormborn of house targaryen, queen of the seven kingdoms of westeros. do they hear me? why don't they move? she sat, folding her hands in her lap. grant me your counsel, and speak to me with the wisdom of those who have conquered death. through the indigo murk, she could make out the wizened features of the undying one to her right, an old old man, wrinkled and hairless. his flesh was a ripe violet-blue, his lips and nails bluer still, so dark they were almost black. even the whites of his eyes were blue. they stared unseeing at the ancient woman on the opposite side of the table, whose gown of pale silk had rotted on her body. one withered breast was left bare in the qartheen manner, to show a pointed blue nipple hard as leather. she is not breathing. dany listened to the silence. none of them are breathing, and they do not move, and those eyes see nothing. could it be that the undying ones were dead? her answer was a whisper as thin as a mouse's whisker.... we live... live... live... it sounded. myriad other voices whispered echoes... . and know... know... know... know... i have come for the gift of truth, dany said. in the long hall, the things i saw... were they true visions, or lies? past things, or things to come? what did they mean? ...the shape of shadows... morrows not yet made... drink from the cup of ice... drink from the cup of fire... ...mother of dragons... child of three... three? she did not understand. ...three heads has the dragon... the ghost chorus yammered inside her skull with never a lip moving, never a breath stirring the still blue air.... mother of dragons... child of storm... the whispers became a swirling song.... three fires must you light... one for life and one for death and one to love... her own heart was beating in unison to the one that floated before her, blue and corrupt... three mounts must you ride... one to bed and one to dread and one to love... the voices were growing louder, she realized, and it seemed her heart was slowing, and even her breath.... three treasons will you know... once for blood and once for gold and once for love... i don't... her voice was no more than a whisper, almost as faint as theirs. what was happening to her? i don't understand, she said, more loudly. why was it so hard to talk here? help me. show me. ...help her... the whispers mocked.... show her... then phantoms shivered through the murk, images in indigo. viserys screamed as the molten gold ran down his cheeks and filled his mouth. a tall lord with copper skin and silver-gold hair stood beneath the banner of a fiery stallion, a burning city behind him. rubies flew like drops of blood from the chest of a dying prince, and he sank to his knees in the water and with his last breath murmured a woman's name.... mother of dragons, daughter of death... glowing like sunset, a red sword was raised in the hand of a blue-eyed king who cast no shadow. a cloth dragon swayed on poles amidst a cheering crowd. from a smoking tower, a great stone beast took wing, breathing shadow fire.... mother of dragons, slayer of lies... her silver was trotting through the grass, to a darkling stream beneath a sea of stars. a corpse stood at the prow of a ship, eyes bright in his dead face, grey lips smiling sadly. a blue flower grew from a chink in a wall of ice, and filled the air with sweetness.... mother of dragons, bride of fire... faster and faster the visions came, one after the other, until it seemed as if the very air had come alive. shadows whirled and danced inside a tent, boneless and terrible. a little girl ran barefoot toward a big house with a red door. mirri maz duur shrieked in the flames, a dragon bursting from her brow. behind a silver horse the bloody corpse of a naked man bounced and dragged. a white lion ran through grass taller than a man. beneath the mother of mountains, a line of naked crones crept from a great lake and knelt shivering before her, their grey heads bowed. ten thousand slaves lifted bloodstained hands as she raced by on her silver, riding like the wind. mother! they cried. mother, mother! they were reaching for her, touching her, tugging at her cloak, the hem of her skirt, her foot, her leg, her breast. they wanted her, needed her, the fire, the life, and dany gasped and opened her arms to give herself to them... but then black wings buffeted her round the head, and a scream of fury cut the indigo air, and suddenly the visions were gone, ripped away, and dany's gasp turned to horror. the undying were all around her, blue and cold, whispering as they reached for her, pulling, stroking, tugging at her clothes, touching her with their dry cold hands, twining their fingers through her hair. all the strength had left her limbs. she could not move. even her heart had ceased to beat. she felt a hand on her bare breast, twisting her nipple. teeth found the soft skin of her throat. a mouth descended on one eye, licking, sucking, biting... then indigo turned to orange, and whispers turned to screams. her heart was pounding, racing, the hands and mouths were gone, heat washed over her skin, and dany blinked at a sudden glare. perched above her, the dragon spread his wings and tore at the terrible dark heart, ripping the rotten flesh to ribbons, and when his head snapped forward, fire flew from his open jaws, bright and hot. she could hear the shrieks of the undying as they burned, their high thin papery voices crying out in tongues long dead. their flesh was crumbling parchment, their bones dry wood soaked in tallow. they danced as the flames consumed them; they staggered and writhed and spun and raised blazing hands on high, their fingers bright as torches. dany pushed herself to her feet and bulled through them. they were light as air, no more than husks, and they fell at a touch. the whole room was ablaze by the time she reached the door. drogon, she called, and he flew to her through the fire. outside a long dim passageway stretched serpentine before her, lit by the flickering orange glare from behind. dany ran, searching for a door, a door to her right, a door to her left, any door, but there was nothing, only twisty stone walls, and a floor that seemed to move slowly under her feet, writhing as if to trip her. she kept her feet and ran faster, and suddenly the door was there ahead of her, a door like an open mouth. when she spilled out into the sun, the bright light made her stumble. pyat pree was gibbering in some unknown tongue and hopping from one foot to the other. when dany looked behind her, she saw thin tendrils of smoke forcing their way through cracks in the ancient stone walls of the palace of dust, and rising from between the black tiles of the roof. howling curses, pyat pree drew a knife and danced toward her, but drogon flew at his face. then she heard the crack of jhogo's whip, and never was a sound so sweet. the knife went flying, and an instant later rakharo was slamming pyat to the ground. ser jorah mormont knelt beside dany in the cool green grass and put his arm around her shoulder. she was breaking her fast on a bowl of cold shrimp-and-persimmon soup when irri brought her a qartheen gown, an airy confection of ivory samite patterned with seed pearls. take it away, dany said. the docks are no place for lady's finery. if the milk men thought her such a savage, she would dress the part for them. when she went to the stables, she wore faded sandsilk pants and woven grass sandals. her small breasts moved freely beneath a painted dothraki vest, and a curved dagger hung from her medallion belt. jhiqui had braided her hair dothraki fashion, and fastened a silver bell to the end of the braid. i have won no victories, she tried telling her handmaid when the bell tinkled softly. jhiqui disagreed. you burned the maegi in their house of dust and sent their souls to hell. that was drogon's victory, not mine, dany wanted to say, but she held her tongue. the dothraki would esteem her all the more for a few bells in her hair. she chimed as she mounted her silver mare, and again with every stride, but neither ser jorah nor her bloodriders made mention of it. to guard her people and her dragons in her absence, she chose rakharo. jhogo and aggo would ride with her to the waterfront. they left the marble palaces and fragrant gardens behind and made their way through a poorer part of the city where modest brick houses turned blind walls to the street. there were fewer horses and camels to be seen, and a dearth of palanquins, but the streets teemed with children, beggars, and skinny dogs the color of sand. pale men in dusty linen skirts stood beneath arched doorways to watch them pass. they know who i am, and they do not love me. dany could tell from the way they looked at her. ser jorah would sooner have tucked her inside her palanquin, safely hidden behind silken curtains, but she refused him. she had reclined too long on satin cushions, letting oxen bear her hither and yon. at least when she rode she felt as though she was getting somewhere. it was not by choice that she sought the waterfront. she was fleeing again. her whole life had been one long flight, it seemed. she had begun running in her mother's womb, and never once stopped. how often had she and viserys stolen away in the black of night, a bare step ahead of the usurper's hired knives? but it was run or die. xaro had learned that pyat pree was gathering the surviving warlocks together to work ill on her. dany had laughed when he told her. was it not you who told me warlocks were no more than old soldiers, vainly boasting of forgotten deeds and lost prowess? xaro looked troubled. and so it was, then. but now? i am less certain. it is said that the glass candles are burning in the house of urrathon night- walker, that have not burned in a hundred years. ghost grass grows in the garden of gehane, phantom tortoises have been seen carrying messages between the windowless houses on warlock's way, and all the rats in the city are chewing off their tails. the wife of mathos mallarawan, who once mocked a warlock's drab moth-eaten robe, has gone mad and will wear no clothes at all. even fresh-washed silks make her feel as though a thousand insects were crawling on her skin. and blind sybassion the eater of eyes can see again, or so his slaves do swear. a man must wonder. he sighed. these are strange times in qarth. and strange times are bad for trade. it grieves me to say so, yet it might be best if you left qarth entirely, and sooner rather than later. xaro stroked her fingers reassuringly. you need not go alone, though. you have seen dark visions in the palace of dust, but xaro has dreamed brighter dreams. i see you happily abed, with our child at your breast. sail with me around the jade sea, and we can yet make it so! it is not too late. give me a son, my sweet song ofjoy! give you a dragon, you mean. i will not wed you, xaro. his face had grown cold at that. then go. but where? somewhere far from here. well, perhaps it was time. the people of her khalasar had welcomed the chance to recover from the ravages of the red waste, but now that they were plump and rested once again, they began to grow unruly. dothraki were not accustomed to staying long in one place. they were a warrior people, not made for cities. perhaps she had lingered in qarth too long, seduced by its comforts and its beauties. it was a city that always promised more than it would give you, it seemed to her, and her welcome here had turned sour since the house of the undying had collapsed in a great gout of smoke and flame. overnight the qartheen had come to remember that dragons were dangerous. no longer did they vie with each other to give her gifts. instead the tourmaline brotherhood had called openly for her expulsion, and the ancient guild of spicers for her death, it was all xaro could do to keep the thirteen from joining them. but where am i to go? ser jorah proposed that they journey farther east, away from her enemies in the seven kingdoms. her bloodriders would sooner have returned to their great grass sea, even if it meant braving the red waste again. dany herself had toyed with the idea of settling in vaes tolorro until her dragons grew great and strong. but her heart was full of doubts. each of these felt wrong, somehow... and even when she decided where to go, the question of how she would get there remained troublesome. xaro xhoan daxos would be no help to her, she knew that now. for all his professions of devotion, he was playing his own game, not unlike pyat pree. the night he asked her to leave, dany had begged one last favor of him. an army, is it? xaro asked. a kettle of gold? a galley, perhaps? dany blushed. she hated begging. a ship, yes. xaro's eyes had glittered as brightly as the jewels in his nose. i am a trader, khaleesi. so perhaps we should speak no more of giving, but rather of trade. for one of your dragons, you shall have ten of the finest ships in my fleet. you need only say that one sweet word. no, she said. alas, xaro sobbed, that was not the word i meant. would you ask a mother to sell one of her children? whyever not? they can always make more. mothers sell their children every day. not the mother of dragons. not even for twenty ships? not for a hundred. his mouth curled downward. i do not have a hundred. but you have three dragons. grant me one, for all my kindnesses. you will still have two and thirty ships as well. thirty ships would be enough to land a small army on the shore of westeros. but i do not have a small army. how many ships do you own, xaro?  eighty-three, if one does not count my pleasure barge. and your colleagues in the thirteen? among us all, perhaps a thousand. and the spicers and the tourmaline brotherhood? their trifling fleets are of no account. even so, she said, tell me. twelve or thirteen hundred for the spicers. no more than eight hundred for the brotherhood. and the asshai'i, the braavosi, the summer islanders, the ibbenese, and all the other peoples who sail the great salt sea, how many ships do they have? all together? many and more, he said irritably. what does this matter? i am trying to set a price on one of the three living dragons in the world. dany smiled at him sweetly. it seems to me that one-third of all the ships in the world would be fair. xaro's tears ran down his cheeks on either side of his jewel-encrusted nose. did i not warn you not to enter the palace of dust? this is the very thing i feared. the whispers of the warlocks have made you as mad as mallarawan's wife. a third of all the ships in the world? pah. pah, i say. pah. dany had not seen him since. his seneschal brought her messages, each cooler than the last. she must quit his house. he was done feeding her and her people. he demanded the return of his gifts, which she had accepted in bad faith. her only consolation was that at least she'd had the great good sense not to marry him. the warlocks whispered of three treasons... once for blood and once for gold and once for love. the first traitor was surely mirri maz duur, who had murdered khal drogo and their unborn son to avenge her people. could pyat pree and xaro xhoan daxos be the second and the third? she did not think so. what pyat did was not for gold, and xaro had never truly loved her. the streets grew emptier as they passed through a district given over to gloomy stone warehouses. aggo went before her and jhogo behind, leaving ser jorah mormont at her side. her bell rang softly, and dany found her thoughts returning to the palace of dust once more, as the tongue returns to a space left by a missing tooth. child of three, they had called her, daughter of death, slayer of lies, bride of fire. so many threes. three fires, three mounts to ride, three treasons. the dragon has three heads, she sighed. do you know what that means, jorah? your grace? the sigil of house targaryen is a three-headed dragon, red on black. i know that. but there are no three-headed dragons. the three heads were aegon and his sisters. visenya and rhaenys, she recalled. i am descended from aegon and rhaenys through their son aenys and their grandson jaehaerys. blue lips speak only lies, isn't that what xaro told you? why do you care what the warlocks whispered? all they wanted was to suck the life from you, you know that now. perhaps, she said reluctantly. yet the things i saw. a dead man in the prow of a ship, a blue rose, a banquet of blood... what does any of it mean, khaleesi? a mummer's dragon, you said. what is a mummer's dragon, pray? a cloth dragon on poles, dany explained. mummers use them in their follies, to give the heroes something to fight. ser jorah frowned. dany could not let it go. his is the song of ice and fire, my brother said. i'm certain it was my brother. not viserys, rhaegar. he had a harp with silver strings. ser jorah' s frown deepened until his eyebrows came together. prince rhaegar played such a harp, he conceded. you saw him? she nodded. there was a woman in a bed with a babe at her breast. my brother said the babe was the prince that was promised and told her to name him aegon. prince aegon was rhaegar's heir by elia of dome, ser jorah said. but if he was this prince that was promised, the promise was broken along with his skull when the lannisters dashed his head against a wall. i remember, dany said sadly. they murdered rhaegar's daughter as well, the little princess. rhaenys, she was named, like aegon' s sister. there was no visenya, but he said the dragon has three heads. what is the song of ice and fire? it's no song i've ever heard. i went to the warlocks hoping for answers, but instead they've left me with a hundred new questions. by then there were people in the streets once more. make way, aggo shouted, while jhogo sniffed at the air suspiciously. i smell it, khaleesi, he called. the poison water. the dothraki distrusted the sea and all that moved upon it. water that a horse could not drink was water they wanted no part of. they will learn, dany resolved. i braved their sea with khal drogo. now they can brave mine. qarth was one of the world's great ports, its great sheltered harbor a riot of color and clangor and strange smells. winesinks, warehouses, and gaming dens lined the streets, cheek by jowl with cheap brothels and the temples of peculiar gods. cutpurses, cutthroats, spellsellers, and moneychangers mingled with every crowd. the waterfront was one great marketplace where the buying and selling went on all day and all night, and goods might be had for a fraction of what they cost at the bazaar, if a man did not ask where they came from. wizened old women bent like hunchbacks sold flavored waters and goat's milk from glazed ceramic jugs strapped to their shoulders. seamen from half a hundred nations wandered amongst the stalls, drinking spiced liquors and trading jokes in queer-sounding tongues. the air smelled of salt and frying fish, of hot tar and honey, of incense and oil and sperm. aggo gave an urchin a copper for a skewer of honey-roasted mice and nibbled them as he rode. jhogo bought a handful of fat white cherries. elsewhere they saw beautiful bronze daggers for sale, dried squids and carved onyx, a potent magical elixir made of virgin's milk and shade of the evening, even dragon's eggs which looked suspiciously like painted rocks. as they passed the long stone quays reserved for the ships of the thirteen, she saw chests of saffron, frankincense, and pepper being off-loaded fromxaro's ornate vermillion kiss. beside her, casks of wine, bales of sourleaf, and pallets of striped hides were being trundled up the gangplank onto the bride in azure, to sail on the evening tide. farther along, a crowd had gathered around the spicer galley sunblaze to bid on slaves, it was well known that the cheapest place to buy a slave was right off the ship, and the banners floating from her masts proclaimed that the sunblaze had just arrived from astapor on slaver's bay. dany would get no help from the thirteen, the tourmaline brotherhood, or the ancient guild of spicers. she rode her silver past several miles of their quays, docks, and storehouses, all the way out to the far end of the horseshoe-shaped harbor where the ships from the summer islands, westeros, and the nine free cities were permitted to dock. she dismounted beside a gaming pit where a basilisk was tearing a big red dog to pieces amidst a shouting ring of sailors. aggo, jhogo, you will guard the horses while ser jorah and i speak to the captains. 'as you say, khaleesi. we will watch you as you go. it was good to hear men speaking valyrian once more, and even the common tongue, dany thought as they approached the first ship. sailors, dockworkers, and merchants alike gave way before her, not knowing what to make of this slim young girl with silver-gold hair who dressed in the dothraki fashion and walked with a knight at her side. despite the heat of the day, ser jorah wore his green wool surcoat over chainmail, the black bear of mormont sewn on his chest. but neither her beauty nor his size and strength would serve with the men whose ships they needed. you require passage for a hundred dothraki, all their horses, yourself and this knight, and three dragons? said the captain of the great cog ardent friend before he walked away laughing. when she told a lyseni on the trumpeteer that she was daenerys stormborn, queen of the seven kingdoms, he gave her a deadface look and said,'aye, and i'm lord tywin lannister and shit gold every night. the cargomaster of the myrish galley silken spirit opined that dragons were too dangerous at sea, where any stray breath of flame might set the rigging afire. the owner of lord faro's belly would risk dragons, but not dothraki. i'll have no such godless savages in my belly, i'll not. the two brothers who captained the sister ships quicksilver and greyhound seemed sympathetic and invited them into the cabin for a glass of arbor red. they were so courteous that dany was hopeful for a time, but in the end the price they asked was far beyond her means, and might have been beyond xaro's. pinchbottom petto and sloe-eyed maid were too small for her needs, bravo was bound for the jade sea, and magister manolo scarce looked seaworthy. as they made their way toward the next quay, ser jorah laid a hand against the small of her back. your grace. you are being followed. no, do not turn. he guided her gently toward a brass-seller's booth. this is a noble work, my queen, he proclaimed loudly, lifting a large platter for her inspection. see how it shines in the sun? the brass was polished to a high sheen. dany could see her face in it... and when ser jo rah angled it to the right, she could see behind her. i see a fat brown man and an older man with a staff. which is it? both of them, ser jorah said. they have been following us since we left quicksilver. the ripples in the brass stretched the strangers queerly, making one man seem long and gaunt, the other immensely squat and broad. a most excellent brass, great lady, the merchant exclaimed. bright as the sun! and for the mother of dragons, only thirty honors. the platter was worth no more than three. where are my guards? dany declared. this man is trying to rob me! for jorah, she lowered her voice and spoke in the common tongue. they may not mean me ill. men have looked at women since time began, perhaps it is no more than that. the brass-seller ignored their whispers. thirty? did i say thirty? such a fool i am. the price is twenty honors. all the brass in this booth is not worth twenty honors, dany told him as she studied the reflections. the old man had the look of westeros about him, and the brown-skinned one must weigh twenty stone. the usurper offered a lordship to the man who kills me, and these two are far from home. or could they be creatures of the warlocks, meant to take me unawares? ten, khaleesi, because you are so lovely. use it for a looking glass. only brass this fine could capture such beauty. it might serve to carry nightsoil. if you threw it away, i might pick it up, so long as i did not need to stoop. but pay for it? dany shoved the platter back into his hands. worms have crawled up your nose and eaten your wits. eight honors, he cried. my wives will beat me and call me fool, but i am a helpless child in your hands. come, eight, that is less than it is worth. what do i need with dull brass when xaro xhoan daxos feeds me off plates of gold? as she turned to walk off, dany let her glance sweep over the strangers. the brown man was near as wide as he'd looked in the platter, with a gleaming bald head and the smooth cheeks of a eunuch. a long curving arakh was thrust through the sweat-stained yellow silk of his bellyband. above the silk, he was naked but for an absurdly tiny iron-studded vest. old scars crisscrossed his tree- trunk arms, huge chest, and massive belly, pale against his nut-brown skin. the other man wore a traveler's cloak of undyed wool, the hood thrown back. long white hair fell to his shoulders, and a silky white beard covered the lower half of his face. he leaned his weight on a hardwood staff as tall as he was. only fools would stare so openly if they meant me harm. all the same, it might be prudent to head back toward jhogo and aggo. the old man does not wear a sword, she said to jorah in the common tongue as she drew him away. the brass merchant came hopping after them. five honors, for five it is yours, it was meant for you. ser jorah said, a hardwood staff can crack a skull as well as any mace. four! i know you want it! he danced in front of them, scampering backward as he thrust the platter at their faces. do they follow? lift that up a little higher, the knight told the merchant. yes. the old man pretends to linger at a potter's stall, but the brown one has eyes only for you. two honors! two! two! the merchant was panting heavily from the effort of running backward. pay him before he kills himself, dany told ser jo rah, wondering what she was going to do with a huge brass platter. she turned back as he reached for his coins, intending to put an end to this mummer's farce. the blood of the dragon would not be herded through the bazaar by an old man and a fat eunuch. a qartheen stepped into her path. mother of dragons, for you. he knelt and thrust a jewel box into her face. dany took it almost by reflex. the box was carved wood, its mother-of-pearl lid inlaid with jasper and chalcedony. you are too generous. she opened it. within was a glittering green scarab carved from onyx and emerald. beautiful, she thought. this will help pay for our passage. as she reached inside the box, the man said, i am so sorry, but she hardly heard. the scarab unfolded with a hiss. dany caught a glimpse of a malign black face, almost human, and an arched tail dripping venom... and then the box flew from her hand in pieces, turning end over end. sudden pain twisted her fingers. as she cried out and clutched her hand, the brass merchant let out a shriek, a woman screamed, and suddenly the qartheen were shouting and pushing each other aside. ser jorah slammed past her, and dany stumbled to one knee. she heard the hiss again. the old man drove the butt of his staff into the ground, aggo came riding through an eggseller's stall and vaulted from his saddle, jhogo's whip cracked overhead, ser jorah slammed the eunuch over the head with the brass platter, sailors and whores and merchants were fleeing or shouting or both... your grace, a thousand pardons. the old man knelt. it's dead. did i break your hand? she closed her fingers, wincing. i don't think so. i had to knock it away, he started, but her bloodriders were on him before he could finish. aggo kicked his staff away and jhogo seized him round the shoulders, forced him to his knees, and pressed a dagger to his throat. khaleesi, we saw him strike you. would you see the color of his blood?  release him. dany climbed to her feet. look at the bottom of his staff, blood of my blood. ser jorah had been shoved off his feet by the eunuch. she ran between them as arakh and longsword both came flashing from their sheaths. put down your steel! stop it! your grace? mormont lowered his sword only an inch. these men attacked you. they were defending me. dany snapped her hand to shake the sting from her fingers. it was the other one, the qartheen. when she looked around he was gone. he was a sorrowful man. there was a manticore in that jewel box he gave me. this man knocked it out of my hand. the brass merchant was still rolling on the ground. she went to him and helped him to his feet. were you stung? no, good lady, he said, shaking, or else i would be dead. but it touched me, aieeee, when it fell from the box it landed on my arm. he had soiled himself, she saw, and no wonder. she gave him a silver for his trouble and sent him on his way before she turned back to the old man with the white beard. who is it that i owe my life to? you owe me nothing, your grace. i am called arstan, though belwas named me whitebeard on the voyage here. though jhogo had released him the old man remained on one knee. aggo picked up his staff, turned it over, cursed softly in dothraki, scraped the remains of the manticore off on a stone, and handed it back. and who is belwas? she asked. the huge brown eunuch swaggered forward, sheathing his arakh. i am belwas. strong belwas they name me in the fighting pits of meereen. never did i lose. he slapped his belly, covered with scars. i let each man cut me once, before i kill him. count the cuts and you will know how many strong belwas has slain. dany had no need to count his scars; there were many, she could see at a glance. and why are you here, strong belwas? from meereen i am sold to qohor, and then to pentos and the fat man with sweet stink in his hair. he it was who send strong belwas back across the sea, and old whitebeard to serve him. the fat man with sweet stink in his hair illyrio? she said. you were sent by magister illyrio? we were, your grace, old whitebeard replied. the magister begs your kind indulgence for sending us in his stead, but he cannot sit a horse as he did in his youth, and sea travel upsets his digestion. earlier he had spoken in the valyrian of the free cities, but now he changed to the common tongue. i regret if we caused you alarm. if truth be told, we were not certain, we expected someone more... more... regal? dany laughed. she had no dragon with her, and her raiment was hardly queenly. you speak the common tongue well, arstan. are you of westeros? i am. i was born on the dornish marches, your grace. as a boy i squired for a knight of lord swann's household. he held the tall staff upright beside him like a lance in need of a banner. now i squire for belwas. a bit old for such, aren't you? ser jorah had shouldered his way to her side, holding the brass platter awkwardly under his arm. belwas's hard head had left it badly bent. not too old to serve my liege, lord mormont. you know me as well? i saw you fight a time or two. at lannisport where you near unhorsed the kingslayer. and on pyke, there as well. you do not recall, lord mormont? ser jorah frowned. your face seems familiar, but there were hundreds at lannisport and thousands on pyke. and i am no lord. bear island was taken from me. i am but a knight. a knight of my queensguard. dany took his arm. and my true friend and good counselor. she studied arstan's face. he had a great dignity to him, a quiet strength she liked. rise, arstan whitebeard. be welcome, strong belwas. ser jorah you know. ko aggo and ko jhogo are blood of my blood. they crossed the red waste with me, and saw my dragons born. horse boys. belwas grinned toothily. belwas has killed many horse boys in the fighting pits. they jingle when they die. aggo's arakh leapt to his hand. never have i killed a fat brown man. belwas will be the first. sheath your steel, blood of my blood, said dany, this man comes to serve me. belwas, you will accord all respect to my people, or you will leave my service sooner than you'd wish, and with more scars than when you came. the gap-toothed smile faded from the giant's broad brown face, replaced by a confused scowl. men did not often threaten belwas, it would seem, and less so girls a third his size. dany gave him a smile, to take a bit of the sting from the rebuke. now tell me, what would magister illyrio have of me, that he would send you all the way from pentos? he would have dragons, said belwas gruffly, and the girl who makes them. he would have you. belwas has the truth of us, your grace, said arstan. we were told to find you and bring you back to pentos. the seven kingdoms have need of you. robert the usurper is dead, and the realm bleeds. when we set sail from pentos there were four kings in the land, and no justice to be had. joy bloomed in her heart, but dany kept it from her face. i have three dragons, she said, and more than a hundred in my khalasar, with all their goods and horses. it is no matter, boomed belwas. we take all. the fat man hires three ships for his little silverhair queen. it is so, your grace, arstan whitebeard said. the great cog saduleon is berthed at the end of the quay, and the galleys summer sun and foso's prank are anchored beyond the breakwater. three heads has the dragon, dany thought, wondering. i shall tell my people to make ready to depart at once. but the ships that bring me home must bear different names. as you wish, said arstan. what names would you prefer? vhagar, daenerys told him. meraxes. and balerion. paint the names on their hulls in golden letters three feet high, arstan. i want every man who sees them to know the dragons are returned. 