the morning air was dark with the smoke of burning gods. they were all afire now, maid and mother, warrior and smith, the crone with her pearl eyes and the father with his gilded beard; even the stranger, carved to look more animal than human. the old dry wood and countless layers of paint and varnish blazed with a fierce hungry light. heat rose shimmering through the chill air; behind, the gargoyles and stone dragons on the castle walls seemed blurred, as if davos were seeing them through a veil of tears. or as if the beasts were trembling, stirring... an ill thing, allard declared, though at least he had the sense to keep his voice low. dale muttered agreement. silence, said davos. remember where you are. his sons were good men, but young, and allard especially was rash. had i stayed a smuggler, allard would have ended on the wall. stannis spared him from that end, something else i owe him... hundreds had come to the castle gates to bear witness to the burning of the seven. the smell in the air was ugly. even for soldiers, it was hard not to feel uneasy at such an affront to the gods most had worshiped all their lives. the red woman walked round the fire three times, praying once in the speech of asshai, once in high valyrian, and once in the common tongue. davos understood only the last. r'hllor, come to us in our darkness, she called. lord of light, we offer you these false gods, these seven who are one, and him the enemy. take them and cast your light upon us, for the night is dark and full of terrors. queen selyse echoed the words. beside her, stannis watched impassively, his jaw hard as stone under the blue-black shadow of his tight-cropped beard. he had dressed more richly than was his wont, as if for the sept. dragonstone's sept had been where aegon the conqueror knelt to pray the night before he sailed. that had not saved it from the queen's men. they had overturned the altars, pulled down the statues, and smashed the stained glass with warhammers. septon barre could only curse them, but ser hubard rambton led his three sons to the sept to defend their gods. the rambtons had slain four of the queen's men before the others overwhelmed them. afterward guncer sunglass, mildest and most pious of lords, told stannis he could no longer support his claim. now he shared a sweltering cell with the septon and ser hubard's two surviving sons. the other lords had not been slow to take the lesson. the gods had never meant much to davos the smuggler, though like most men he had been known to make offerings to the warrior before battle, to the smith when he launched a ship, and to the mother whenever his wife grew great with child. he felt ill as he watched them burn, and not only from the smoke. maester cressen would have stopped this. the old man had challenged the lord of light and been struck down for his impiety, or so the gossips told each other. davos knew the truth. he had seen the maester slip something into the wine cup. poison. what else could it be? he drank a cup of death to free stannis from melisandre, but somehow her god shielded her. he would gladly have killed the red woman for that, yet what chance would he have where a maester of the citadel had failed? he was only a smuggler raised high, davos of flea bottom, the onion knight. the burning gods cast a pretty light, wreathed in their robes of shifting flame, red and orange and yellow. septon barre had once told davos how they'd been carved from the masts of the ships that had carried the first targaryens from valyria. over the centuries, they had been painted and repainted, gilded, silvered, jeweled. their beauty will make them more pleasing to r'hllor, melisandre said when she told stannis to pull them down and drag them out the castle gates. the maiden lay athwart the warrior, her arms widespread as if to embrace him. the mother seemed almost to shudder as the flames came licking up her face. a longsword had been thrust through her heart, and its leather grip was alive with flame. the father was on the bottom, the first to fall. davos watched the hand of the stranger writhe and curl as the fingers blackened and fell away one by one, reduced to so much glowing charcoal. nearby, lord celtigar coughed fitfully and covered his wrinkled face with a square of linen embroidered in red crabs. the myrmen swapped jokes as they enjoyed the warmth of the fire, but young lord bar emmon had turned a splotchy grey, and lord velaryon was watching the king rather than the conflagration. davos would have given much to know what he was thinking, but one such as velaryon would never confide in him. the lord of the tides was of the blood of ancient valyria, and his house had thrice provided brides for targaryen princes; davos seaworth stank offish and onions. it was the same with the other lordlings. he could trust none of them, nor would they ever include him in their private councils. they scorned his sons as well. my grandsons will joust with theirs, though, and one day their blood may wed with mine. in time my little black ship will fly as high as velaryon' s seahorse or celtigar' s red crabs. that is, if stannis won his throne. if he lost... everything i am, i owe to him. stannis had raised him to knighthood. he had given him a place of honor at his table, a war galley to sail in place of a smuggler's skiff. dale and allard captained galleys as well, marie was oarmaster on the fury, matthos served his father on black betha, and the king had taken devan as a royal squire. one day he would be knighted, and the two little lads as well. marya was mistress of a small keep on cape wrath, with servants who called her m'lady, and davos could hunt red deer in his own woods. all this he had of stannis baratheon, for the price of a few finger joints. it was just, what he did to me. i had flouted the king's laws all my life. he has earned my loyalty. davos touched the little pouch that hung from the leather thong about his neck. his fingers were his luck, and he needed luck now. as do we all. lord stannis most of all. pale flames licked at the grey sky. dark smoke rose, twisting and curling. when the wind pushed it toward them, men blinked and wept and rubbed their eyes. allard turned his head away, coughing and cursing. a taste of things to come, thought davos. many and more would burn before this war was done. melisandre was robed all in scarlet satin and blood velvet, her eyes as red as the great ruby that glistened at her throat as if it too were afire. in ancient books of asshai it is written that there will come a day after a long summer when the stars bleed and the cold breath of darkness falls heavy on the world. in this dread hour a warrior shall draw from the fire a burning sword. and that sword shall be lightbringer, the red sword of heroes, and he who clasps it shall be azor ahai come again, and the darkness shall flee before him. she lifted her voice, so it carried out over the gathered host.'azor ahai, beloved of r'hllor! the warrior of light, the son of fire! come forth, your sword awaits you! come forth and take it into your hand! stannis baratheon strode forward like a soldier marching into battle. his squires stepped up to attend him. davos watched as his son devan pulled a long padded glove over the king's right hand. the boy wore a cream-colored doublet with a fiery heart sewn on the breast. bryen farring was similarly garbed as he tied a stiff leather cape around his grace's neck. behind, davos heard a faint clank and clatter of bells. under the sea, smoke rises in bubbles, and flames burn green and blue and black, patchface sang somewhere. i know, i know, oh, oh, oh. the king plunged into the fire with his teeth clenched, holding the leather cloak before him to keep off the flames. he went straight to the mother, grasped the sword with his gloved hand, and wrenched it free of the burning wood with a single hard jerk. then he was retreating, the sword held high, jade-green flames swirling around cherry-red steel. guards rushed to beat out the cinders that clung to the king's clothing. a sword of fire! shouted queen selyse. ser axell florent and the other queen's men took up the cry. a sword of fire! it bums! it burns! a sword of fire! melisandre lifted her hands above her head. beholdl a sign was promised, and now a sign is seen! behold lightbringer! azor ahai has come again! all hail the warrior of light! all hail the son of fire! a ragged wave of shouts gave answer, just as stannis's glove began to smolder. cursing, the king thrust the point of the sword into the damp earth and beat out the flames against his leg. lord, cast your light upon us! melisandre called out. for the night is dark and full of terrors, selyse and her queen's men replied. should i speak the words as well? davos wondered. do i owe stannis that much? is this fiery god truly his own? his shortened fingers twitched. stannis peeled off the glove and let it fall to the ground. the gods in the pyre were scarcely recognizable anymore. the head fell off the smith with a puff of ash and embers. melisandre sang in the tongue of asshai, her voice rising and falling like the tides of the sea. stannis untied his singed leather cape and listened in silence. thrust in the ground, lightbringer still glowed ruddy hot, but the flames that clung to the sword were dwindling and dying. by the time the song was done, only charwood remained of the gods, and the king's patience had run its course. he took the queen by the elbow and escorted her back into dragonstone, leaving lightbringer where it stood. the red woman remained a moment to watch as devan knelt with byren farring and rolled up the burnt and blackened sword in the king's leather cloak. the red sword of heroes looks a proper mess, thought davos. a few of the lords lingered to speak in quiet voices upwind of the fire. they fell silent when they saw davos looking at them. should stannis fall, they will pull me down in an instant. neither was he counted one of the queen's men, that group of ambitious knights and minor lordlings who had given themselves to this lord of light and so won the favor and patronage of lady-no, queen, remember?- selyse. the fire had started to dwindle by the time melisandre and the squires departed with the precious sword. davos and his sons joined the crowd making its way down to the shore and the waiting ships. devan acquitted himself well, he said as they went. he fetched the glove without dropping it, yes, said dale. allard nodded. that badge on devan' s doublet, the fiery heart, what was that? the baratheon sigil is a crowned stag. a lord can choose more than one badge, davos said. dale smiled. a black ship and an onion, father? allard kicked at a stone. the others take our onion... and that flaming heart. it was an ill thing to burn the seven. when did you grow so devout? davos said. what does a smuggler's son know of the doings of gods? i'm a knight's son, father. if you won't remember, why should they?  a knight's son, but not a knight, said davos. nor will you ever be, if you meddle in affairs that do not concern you. stannis is our rightful king, it is not for us to question him. we sail his ships and do his bidding. that is all. as to that, father, dale said, i mislike these water casks they've given me for wraith. green pine. the water will spoil on a voyage of any length. i got the same for lady marya, said allard. the queen's men have laid claim to all the seasoned wood. i will speak to the king about it, davos promised. better it come from him than from allard. his sons were good fighters and better sailors, but they did not know how to talk to lords. they were lowborn, even as i was, but they do not like to recall that. when they look at our banner, all they see is a tall black ship flying on the wind. they close their eyes to the onion. the port was as crowded as davos had ever known it. every dock teemed with sailors loading provisions, and every inn was packed with soldiers dicing or drinking or looking for a whore... a vain search, since stannis permitted none on his island. ships lined the strand; war galleys and fishing vessels, stout carracks and fat-bottomed cogs. the best berths had been taken by the largest vessels: stannis's flagship fury rocking between lord steffon and stag of the sea, lord velaryon's silverhulled pride of driftmark and her three sisters, lord celtigar's ornate red claw, the ponderous swordfish with her long iron prow. out to sea at anchor rode salladhor saan's great valyrian amongst the striped hulls of two dozen smaller lysene galleys. a weathered little inn sat on the end of the stone pier where black betha, wraith, and lady marya shared mooring space with a half-dozen other galleys of one hundred oars or less. davos had a thirst. he took his leave of his sons and turned his steps toward the inn. out front squatted a waist-high gargoyle, so eroded by rain and salt that his features were all but obliterated. he and davos were old friends, though. he gave a pat to the stone head as he went in. luck, he murmured. across the noisy common room, salladhor saan sat eating grapes from a wooden bowl. when he spied davos, he beckoned him closer. ser knight, come sit with me. eat a grape. eat two. they are marvelously sweet. the lyseni was a sleek, smiling man whose flamboyance was a byword on both sides of the narrow sea. today he wore flashing cloth-ofsilver, with dagged sleeves so long the ends of them pooled on the floor. his buttons were carved jade monkeys, and atop his wispy white curls perched a jaunty green cap decorated with a fan of peacock feathers. davos threaded his way through the tables to a chair. in the days before his knighthood, he had often bought cargoes from salladhor saan. the lyseni was a smuggler himself, as well as a trader, a banker, a notorious pirate, and the self-styled prince of the narrow sea. when a pirate grows rich enough, they make him a prince. it had been davos who had made the journey to lys to recruit the old rogue to lord stannis's cause. you did not see the gods burn, my lord? he asked. the red priests have a great temple on lys. always they are burning this and burning that, crying out to their r'hllor. they bore me with their fires. soon they will bore king stannis too, it is to be hoped. he seemed utterly unconcerned that someone might overhear him, eating his grapes and dribbling the seeds out onto his lip, flicking them off with a finger. my bird of thousand colors came in yesterday, good ser. she is not a warship, no, but a trader, and she paid a call on king's landing. are you sure you will not have a grape? children go hungry in the city, it is said. he dangled the grapes before davos and smiled. it's ale i need, and news. the men of westeros are ever rushing, complained salladhor saan. what good is this, i ask you? he who hurries through life hurries to his grave. he belched. the lord of casterly rock has sent his dwarf to see to king's landing. perhaps he hopes that his ugly face will frighten off attackers, eh? or that we will laugh ourselves dead when the imp capers on the battlements, who can say? the dwarf has chased off the lout who ruled the gold cloaks and put in his place a knight with an iron hand. he plucked a grape, and squeezed it between thumb and forefinger until the skin burst, juice ran down between his fingers. a serving girl pushed her way through, swatting at the hands that groped her as she passed. davos ordered a tankard of ale, turned back to saan, and said, how well is the city defended? the other shrugged. the walls are high and strong, but who will man them? they are building scorpions and spitfires, oh, yes, but the men in the golden cloaks are too few and too green, and there are no others. a swift strike, like a hawk plummeting at a hare, and the great city will be ours. grant us wind to fill our sails, and your king could sit upon his iron throne by evenfall on the morrow. we could dress the dwarf in motley and prick his little cheeks with the points of our spears to make him dance for us, and mayhaps your goodly king would make me a gift of the beautiful queen cersei to warm my bed for a night. i have been too long away from my wives, and all in his service. pirate, said davos. you have no wives, only concubines, and you have been well paid for every day and every ship. only in promises, said salladhor saan mournfully. good ser, it is gold i crave, not words on papers. he popped a grape into his mouth. you'll have your gold when we take the treasury in king's landing. no man in the seven kingdoms is more honorable than stannis baratheon. he will keep his word. even as davos spoke, he thought, this world is twisted beyond hope, when lowborn smugglers must vouch for the honor of kings. so he has said and said. and so i say, let us do this thing. even these grapes could be no more ripe than that city, my old friend. the serving girl returned with his ale. davos gave her a copper. might be we could take king's landing, as you say, he said as he lifted the tankard, but how long would we hold it? tywin lannister is known to be at harrenhal with a great host, and lord renly... ah, yes, the young brother, said salladhor saan. that part is not so good, my friend. king renly bestirs himself. no, here he is lord renly, my pardons. so many kings, my tongue grows weary of the word. the brother renly has left highgarden with his fair young queen, his flowered lords and shining knights, and a mighty host of foot. he marches up your road of roses toward the very same great city we were speaking of. he takes his bride? the other shrugged. he did not tell me why. perhaps he is loath to part with the warm burrow between her thighs, even for a night. or perhaps he is that certain of his victory. the king must be told. i have attended to it, good ser. though his grace frowns so whenever he does see me that i tremble to come before him. do you think he would like me better if i wore a hair shirt and never smiled? well, i will not do it. i am an honest man, he must suffer me in silk and samite. or else i shall take my ships where i am better loved. that sword was not lightbringer, my friend. the sudden shift in subject left davos uneasy. sword? a sword plucked from fire, yes. men tell me things, it is my pleasant smile. how shall a burnt sword serve stannis? a burning sword, corrected davos. burnt, said salladhor saan, and be glad of that, my friend. do you know the tale of the forging of lightbringer? i shall tell it to you. it was a time when darkness lay heavy on the world. to oppose it, the hero must have a hero's blade, oh, like none that had ever been. and so for thirty days and thirty nights azor ahai labored sleepless in the temple, forging a blade in the sacred fires. heat and hammer and fold, heat and hammer and fold, oh, yes, until the sword was done. yet when he plunged it into water to temper the steel it burst asunder. being a hero, it was not for him to shrug and go in search of excellent grapes such as these, so again he began. the second time it took him fifty days and fifty nights, and this sword seemed even finer than the first. azor ahai captured a lion, to temper the blade by plunging it through the beast's red heart, but once more the steel shattered and split. great was his woe and great was his sorrow then, for he knew what he must do. a hundred days and a hundred nights he labored on the third blade, and as it glowed white-hot in the sacred fires, he summoned his wife.'nissa nissa' he said to her, for that was her name, 'bare your breast, and know that i love you best of all that is in this world.' she did this thing, why i cannot say, and azor ahai thrust the smoking sword through her living heart. it is said that her cry of anguish and ecstasy left a crack across the face of the moon, but her blood and her soul and her strength and her courage all went into the steel. such is the tale of the forging of lightbringer, the red sword of heroes. now do you see my meaning? be glad that it is just a burnt sword that his grace pulled from that fire. too much light can hurt the eyes, my friend, and fire bums. salladhor saan finished the last grape and smacked his lips. when do you think the king will bid us sail, good ser?  soon, i think, said davos, if his god wills it. his god, ser friend? not yours? where is the god of ser davos seaworth, knight of the onion ship? davos sipped his ale to give himself a moment. the inn is crowded, and you are not salladhor saan, he reminded himself. be careful how you answer. king stannis is my god. he made me and blessed me with his trust. i will remember. salladhor saan got to his feet. my pardons. these grapes have given me a hunger, and dinner awaits on my valyrian. minced lamb with pepper and roasted gull stuffed with mushrooms and fennel and onion. soon we shall eat together in king's landing, yes? in the red keep we shall feast, while the dwarf sings us a jolly tune. when you speak to king stannis, mention if you would that he will owe me another thirty thousand dragons come the black of the moon. he ought to have given those gods to me. they were too beautiful to burn, and might have brought a noble price in pentos or myr. well, if he grants me queen cersei for a night i shall forgive him. the lyseni clapped davos on the back, and swaggered from the inn as if he owned it. ser davos seaworth lingered over his tankard for a good while, thinking. a year ago, he had been with stannis in king's landing when king robert staged a tourney for prince joffrey's name day. he remembered the red priest thoros of myr, and the flaming sword he had wielded in the melee. the man had made for a colorful spectacle, his red robes flapping while his blade writhed with pale green flames, but everyone knew there was no true magic to it, and in the end his fire had guttered out and bronze yohn royce had brained him with a common mace. a true sword of fire, now, that would be a wonder to behold. yet at such a cost... when he thought of nissa nissa, it was his own marya he pictured, a good-natured plump woman with sagging breasts and a kindly smile, the best woman in the world. he tried to picture himself driving a sword through her, and shuddered. i am not made of the stuff of heroes, he decided. if that was the price of a magic sword, it was more than he cared to pay. davos finished his ale, pushed away the tankard, and left the inn. on the way out he patted the gargoyle on the head and muttered, luck. they would all need it. it was well after dark when devan came down to black betha, leading a snow-white palfrey. my lord father, he announced, his grace commands you to attend him in the chamber of the painted table. you are to ride the horse and come at once. it was good to see devan looking so splendid in his squire's raiment, but the summons made davos uneasy. will he bid us sail? he wondered. salladhor saan was not the only captain who felt that king's landing was ripe for an attack, but a smuggler must learn patience. we have no hope of victory. i said as much to maester cressen, the day i returned to dragonstone, and nothing has changed. we are too few, the foes too many. if we dip our oars, we die. nonetheless, he climbed onto the horse. when davos arrived at the stone drum, a dozen highborn knights and great bannermen were just leaving. lords celtigar and velaryon each gave him a curt nod and walked on while the others ignored him utterly, but ser axell florent stopped for a word. queen selyse's uncle was a keg of a man with thick arms and bandy legs. he had the prominent ears of a florent, even larger than his niece's. the coarse hair that sprouted from his did not stop him hearing most of what went on in the castle. for ten years ser axell had served as castellan of dragonstone while stannis sat on robert's council in king's landing, but of late he had emerged as the foremost of the queen's men. ser davos, it is good to see you, as ever, he said. and you, my lord. i made note of you this morning as well. the false gods burned with a merry light, did they not? they burned brightly. davos did not trust this man, for all his courtesy. house florent had declared for renly. the lady melisandre tells us that sometimes r'hllor permits his faithful servants to glimpse the future in flames. it seemed to me as i watched the fire this morning that i was looking at a dozen beautiful dancers, maidens garbed in yellow silk spinning and swirling before a great king. i think it was a true vision, ser. a glimpse of the glory that awaits his grace after we take king's landing and the throne that is his by rights. stannis has no taste for such dancing, davos thought, but he dared not offend the queen's uncle. i saw only fire, he said, but the smoke was making my eyes water. you must pardon me, ser, the king awaits. he pushed past, wondering why ser axell had troubled himself. he is a queen's man and i am the king's. stannis sat at his painted table with maester pylos at his shoulder, an untidy pile of papers before them. ser, the king said when davos entered, come have a look at this letter. obediently, he selected a paper at random. it looks handsome enough, your grace, but i fear i cannot read the words. davos could decipher maps and charts as well as any, but letters and other writings were beyond his powers. but my devan has learned his letters, and young steffon and stannis as well. i'd forgotten. a furrow of irritation showed between the king's brows. pylos, read it to him. your grace. the maester took up one of the parchments and cleared his throat. all men know me for the trueborn son of steffon baratheon, lord of storm's end, by his lady wife cassana of house estermont. i declare upon the honor of my house that my beloved brother robert, our late king, left no trueborn issue of his body, the boy joffrey, the boy tommen, and the girl myrcella being abominations born of incest between cersei lannister and her brother jaime the kingslayer. by right of birth and blood, i do this day lay claim to the iron throne of the seven kingdoms of westeros. let all true men declare their loyalty. done in the light of the lord, under the sign and seal of stannis of house baratheon, the first of his name, king of the andals, the rhoynar, and the first men, and lord of the seven kingdoms. the parchment rustled softly as pylos laid it down. make it ser jaime the kingslayer henceforth, stannis said, frowning. whatever else the man may be, he remains a knight. i don't know that we ought to call robert my beloved brother either. he loved me no more than he had to, nor i him. a harmless courtesy, your grace, pylos said. a lie. take it out. stannis turned to davos. the maester tells me that we have one hundred seventeen ravens on hand. i mean to use them all. one hundred seventeen ravens will carry one hundred seventeen copies of my letter to every corner of the realm, from the arbor to the wall. perhaps a hundred will win through against storm and hawk and arrow. if so, a hundred maesters will read my words to as many lords in as many solars and bedchambers... and then the letters will like as not be consigned to the fire, and lips pledged to silence. these great lords love joffrey, or renly, or robb stark. i am their rightful king, but they will deny me if they can. so i have need of you. i am yours to command, my king. as ever. stannis nodded. i mean for you to sail black betha north, to gulltown, the fingers, the three sisters, even white harbor. your son dale will go south in wraith, past cape wrath and the broken arm, all along the coast of dome as far as the arbor. each of you will carry a chest of letters, and you will deliver one to every port and holdfast and fishing village. nail them to the doors of septs and inns for every man to read who can. davos said, that will be few enough. ser davos speaks truly, your grace, said maester pylos. it would be better to have the letters read aloud. better, but more dangerous, said stannis. these words will not be kindly received. give me knights to do the reading, davos said. that will carry more weight than anything i might say. stannis seemed well satisfied with that. i can give you such men, yes. i have a hundred knights who would sooner read than fight. be open where you can and stealthy where you must. use every smuggler's trick you know, the black sails, the hidden coves, whatever it requires. if you run short of letters, capture a few septons and set them to copying out more. i mean to use your second son as well. he will take lady marya across the narrow sea, to braavos and the other free cities, to deliver other letters to the men who rule there. the world will know of my claim, and of cersei's infamy. you can tell them, davos thought, but will they believe? he glanced thoughtfully at maester pylos. the king caught the look. maester, perhaps you ought get to your writing. we will need a great many letters, and soon. as you will. pylos bowed, and took his leave. the king waited until he was gone before he said, what is it you would not say in the presence of my maester, davos? my liege, pylos is pleasant enough, but i cannot see the chain about his neck without mourning for maester cressen. is it his fault the old man died? stannis glanced into the fire. i never wanted cressen at that feast. he'd angered me, yes, he'd given me bad counsel, but i did not want him dead. i'd hoped he might be granted a few years of ease and comfort. he had earned that much, at least, but he ground his teeth together- but he died. and pylos serves me ably. pylos is the least of it. the letter... what did your lords make of it, i wonder? stannis snorted. celtigar pronounced it admirable. if i showed him the contents of my privy, he would declare that admirable as well. the others bobbed their heads up and down like a flock of geese, all but velaryon, who said that steel would decide the matter, not words on parchment. as if i had never suspected. the others take my lords, i'll hear your views. your words were blunt and strong. and true. and true. yet you have no proof. of this incest. no more than you did a year ago. there's proof of a sort at storm's end. robert's bastard. the one he fathered on my wedding night, in the very bed they'd made up for me and my bride. delena was a florent, and a maiden when he took her, so robert acknowledged the babe. edric storm, they call him. he is said to be the very image of my brother. if men were to see him, and then look again at joffrey and tommen, they could not help but wonder, i would think... yet how are men to see him, if he is at storm's end? stannis drummed his fingers on the painted table. it is a difficulty. one of many. he raised his eyes. you have more to say about the letter. well, get on with it. i did not make you a knight so you could learn to mouth empty courtesies. i have my lords for that. say what you would say, davos. davos bowed his head. there was a phrase at the end. how did it go? done in the light of the lord... yes. the king's jaw was clenched. your people will mislike those words. as you did? said stannis sharply. if you were to say instead, done in the sight of gods and men, or by the grace of the gods old and new... have you gone devout on me, smuggler? that was to be my question for you, my liege. was it now? it sounds as though you love my new god no more than you love my new maester. i do not know this lord of light, davos admitted, but i knew the gods we burned this morning. the smith has kept my ships safe, while the mother has given me seven strong sons. your wife has given you seven strong sons. do you pray to her? it was wood we burned this morning. that may be so, davos said, but when i was a boy in flea bottom begging for a copper, sometimes the septons would feed me. i feed you now. you have given me an honored place at your table. and in return i give you truth. your people will not love you if you take from them the gods they have always worshiped, and give them one whose very name sounds queer on their tongues. stannis stood abruptly. r'hllor. why is that so hard? they will not love me, you say? when have they ever loved me? how can i lose something i have never owned? he moved to the south window to gaze out at the moonlit sea. i stopped believing in gods the day i saw the windproud break up across the bay. any gods so monstrous as to drown my mother and father would never have my worship, i vowed. in king's landing, the high septon would prattle at me of how all justice and goodness flowed from the seven, but all i ever saw of either was made by men. if you do not believe in gods- -why trouble with this new one? stannis broke in. i have asked myself as well. i know little and care less of gods, but the red priestess has power. yes, but what sort of power? cressen had wisdom. i trusted in his wisdom and your wiles, and what did they avail me, smuggler? the storm lords sent you packing. i went to them a beggar and they laughed at me. well, there will be no more begging, and no more laughing either. the iron throne is mine by rights, but how am i to take it? there are four kings in the realm, and three of them have more men and more gold than i do. i have ships... and i have her. the red woman. half my knights are afraid even to say her name, did you know? if she can do nothing else, a sorceress who can inspire such dread in grown men is not to be despised. a frightened man is a beaten man. and perhaps she can do more. i mean to find out. when i was a lad i found an injured goshawk and nursed her back to health. proudwing, i named her. she would perch on my shoulder and flutter from room to room after me and take food from my hand, but she would not soar. time and again i would take her hawking, but she never flew higher than the treetops. robert called her weakwing. he owned a gyrfalcon named thunderclap who never missed her strike. one day our great-uncle ser harbert told me to try a different bird. i was making a fool of myself with proudwing, he said, and he was right. stannis baratheon turned away from the window, and the ghosts who moved upon the southern sea. the seven have never brought me so much as a sparrow. it is time i tried another hawk, davos. a red hawk. ser cortnay penrose wore no armor. he sat a sorrel stallion, his standard-bearer a dapple grey. above them flapped baratheon's crowned stag and the crossed quills of penrose, white on a russet field. ser cortnay's spade-shaped beard was russet as well, though he'd gone wholly bald on top. if the size and splendor of the king's party impressed him, it did not show on that weathered face. they trotted up with much clinking of chain and rattle of plate. even davos wore mail, though he could not have said why; his shoulders and lower back ached from the unaccustomed weight. it made him feel cumbered and foolish, and he wondered once more why he was here. it is not for me to question the king's commands, and yet... every man of the party was of better birth and higher station than davos seaworth, and the great lords glittered in the morning sun. silvered steel and gold inlay brightened their armor, and their warhelms were crested in a riot of silken plumes, feathers, and cunningly wrought heraldic beasts with gemstone eyes. stannis himself looked out of place in this rich and royal company. like davos, the king was plainly garbed in wool and boiled leather, though the circlet of red gold about his temples lent him a certain grandeur. sunlight flashed off its flame-shaped points whenever he moved his head. this was the closest davos had come to his grace in the eight days since black betha had joined the rest of the fleet off storm's end. he'd sought an audience within an hour of his arrival, only to be told that the king was occupied. the king was often occupied, davos learned from his son devan, one of the royal squires. now that stannis baratheon had come into his power, the lordlings buzzed around him like flies round a corpse. he looks half a corpse too, years older than when i left dragonstone. devan said the king scarcely slept of late. since lord renly died, he has been troubled by terrible nightmares, the boy had confided to his father. maester's potions do not touch them. only the lady melisandre can soothe him to sleep. is that why she shares his pavilion now? davos wondered. to pray with him? or does she have another way to soothe him to sleep? it was an unworthy question, and one he dared not ask, even of his own son. devan was a good boy, but he wore the flaming heart proudly on his doublet, and his father had seen him at the nightfires as dusk fell, beseeching the lord of light to bring the dawn. he is the king's squire, he told himself, it is only to be expected that he would take the king's god. davos had almost forgotten how high and thick the walls of storm's end loomed up close. king stannis halted beneath them, a few feet from ser cortnay and his standard-bearer. ser, he said with stiff courtesy. he made no move to dismount. my lord. that was less courteous, but not unexpected. it is customary to grant a king the style your grace, announced lord florent. a red gold fox poked its shining snout out from his breastplate through a circle of lapis lazuli flowers. very tall, very courtly, and very rich, the lord of brightwater keep had been the first of renly' s bannermen to declare for stannis, and the first to renounce his old gods and take up the lord of light. stannis had left his queen on dragonstone along with her uncle axell, but the queen's men were more numerous and powerful than ever, and alester florent was the foremost. ser cortnay penrose ignored him, preferring to address stannis. this is a notable company. the great lords estermont, errol, and varner. ser jon of the green-apple fossoways and ser bryan of the red. lord caron and ser guyard of king renly's rainbow guard... and the puissant lord alester florent of brightwater, to be sure. is that your onion knight i spy to the rear? well met, ser davos. i fear i do not know the lady. i am named melisandre, ser. she alone came unarmored, but for her flowing red robes. at her throat the great ruby drank the daylight. i serve your king, and the lord of light. i wish you well of them, my lady, ser cortnay answered, but i bow to other gods, and a different king. there is but one true king, and one true god, announced lord florent. are we here to dispute theology, my lord? had i known, i would have brought a septon. you know full well why we are here, said stannis. you have had a fortnight to consider my offer. you sent your ravens. no help has come. nor will it. storm's end stands alone, and i am out of patience. one last time, ser, i command you to open your gates, and deliver me that which is mine by rights. and the terms? asked ser cortnay. remain as before, said stannis. i will pardon you for your treason, as i have pardoned these lords you see behind me. the men of your garrison will be free to enter my service or to return unmolested to their homes. you may keep your weapons and as much property as a man can carry. i will require your horses and pack animals, however. and what of edric storm? my brother's bastard must be surrendered to me. then my answer is still no, my lord. the king clenched his jaw. he said nothing. melisandre spoke instead. may the lord of light protect you in your darkness, ser cortnay. may the others bugger your lord of light, penrose spat back, and wipe his arse with that rag you bear. lord alester florent cleared his throat. ser cortnay, mind your tongue. his grace means the boy no harm. the child is his own blood, and mine as well. my niece delena was the mother, as all men know. if you will not trust to the king, trust to me. you know me for a man of honor- i know you for a man of ambition, ser cortnay broke in. a man who changes kings and gods the way i change my boots. as do these other turncloaks i see before me. an angry clamor went up from the king's men. he is not far wrong, davos thought. only a short time before, the fossoways, guyard mon rigen, and the lords caron, varner, errol, and estermont had all belonged to renly. they had sat in his pavilion, helped him make his battle plans, plotted how stannis might be brought low. and lord florent had been with them-he might be queen selyse's own uncle, but that had not kept the lord of brightwater from bending his knee to renly when renly's star was rising. bryce caron walked his horse forward a few paces, his long rainbowstriped cloak twisting in the wind off the bay. no man here is a turncloak, ser. my fealty belongs to storm's end, and king stannis is its rightful lord... and our true king. he is the last of house baratheon, robert's heir and renly's. if that is so, why is the knight of flowers not among you? and where is mathis rowan? randyll tarly? lady oakheart? why are they not here in your company, they who loved renly best? where is brienne of tarth, i ask you? that one? ser guyard morrigen laughed harshly. she ran. as well she might. hers was the hand that slew the king. a lie, ser cortnay said. i knew brienne when she was no more than a girl playing at her father's feet in evenfall hall, and i knew her still better when the evenstar sent her here to storm's end. she loved renly baratheon from the first moment she laid eyes on him, a blind man could see it. to be sure, declared lord florent airily, and she would scarcely be the first maid maddened to murder by a man who spurned her. though for my own part, i believe it was lady stark who slew the king. she had journeyed all the way from riverrun to plead for an alliance, and renly had refused her. no doubt she saw him as a danger to her son, and so removed him. it was brienne, insisted lord caron. ser emmon cuy swore as much before he died. you have my oath on that, ser cortnay. contempt thickened ser cortnay's voice. and what is that worth? you wear your cloak of many colors, i see. the one renly gave you when you swore your oath to protect him. if he is dead, how is it you are not? he turned his scorn on guyard morrigen. i might ask the same of you, ser. guyard the green, yes? of the rainbow guard? sworn to give his own life for his king's? if i had such a cloak, i would be ashamed to wear it. morrigen bristled. be glad this is a parley, penrose, or i would have your tongue for those words. and cast it in the same fire where you left your manhood? enough! stannis said. the lord of light willed that my brother die for his treason. who did the deed matters not. not to you, perhaps, said ser cortnay. i have heard your proposal, lord stannis. now here is mine. he pulled off his glove and flung it full in the king's face. single combat. sword, lance, or any weapon you care to name. or if you fear to hazard your magic sword and royal skin against an old man, name you a champion, and i shall do the same. he gave guyard morrigen and bryce caron a scathing look. either of these pups would do nicely, i should think. ser guyard morrigen grew dark with fury. i will take up the gage, if it please the king. as would i bryce caron looked to stannis. the king ground his teeth. no. ser cortnay did not seem surprised. is it the justice of your cause you doubt, my lord, or the strength of your arm? are you afraid i'll piss on your burning sword and put it out? do you take me for an utter fool, ser? asked stannis. i have twenty thousand men. you are besieged by land and sea. why would i choose single combat when my eventual victory is certain? the king pointed a finger at him. i give you fair warning. if you force me to take my castle by storm, you may expect no mercy. i will hang you for traitors, every one of you. as the gods will it. bring on your storm, my lord-and recall, if you do, the name of this castle. ser cortnay gave a pull on his reins and rode back toward the gate. stannis said no word, but turned his horse around and started back toward his camp. the others followed. if we storm these walls thousands will die, fretted ancient lord estermont, who was the king's grandfather on his mother's side. better to hazard but a single life, surely? our cause is righteous, so the gods must surely bless our champion's arms with victory. god, old man, thought davos. you forget, we have only one now, melisandre's lord of light. ser jon fossoway said, i would gladly take this challenge myself, though i'm not half the swordsman lord caron is, or ser guyard. renly left no notable knights at storm's end. garrison duty is for old men and green boys. lord caron agreed. an easy victory, to be sure. and what glory, to win storm's end with a single stroke! stannis raked them all with a look. you chatter like magpies, and with less sense. i will have quiet. the king's eyes fell on davos. ser. ride with me. he spurred his horse away from his followers. only melisandre kept pace, bearing the great standard of the fiery heart with the crowned stag within. as if it had been swallowed whole. davos saw the looks that passed between the lordlings as he rode past them to join the king. these were no onion knights, but proud men from houses whose names were old in honor. somehow he knew that renly had never chided them in such a fashion. the youngest of the baratheons had been born with a gift for easy courtesy that his brother sadly lacked. he eased back to a slow trot when his horse came up beside the king's. your grace. seen at close hand, stannis looked worse than davos had realized from afar. his face had grown haggard, and he had dark circles under his eyes. a smuggler must be a fair judge of men, the king said. what do you make of this ser cortnay penrose? a stubborn man, said davos carefully. hungry for death, i call it. he throws my pardon in my face. aye, and throws his life away in the bargain, and the lives of every man inside those walls. single combat? the king snorted in derision. no doubt he mistook me for robert. more like he was desperate. what other hope does he have? none. the castle will fall. but how to do it quickly? stannis brooded on that for a moment. under the steady clop-clop of hooves, davos could hear the faint sound of the king grinding his teeth. lord alester urges me to bring old lord penrose here. ser cortnay's father. you know the man, i believe? when i came as your envoy, lord penrose received me more courteously than most, davos said. he is an old done man, sire. sickly and failing. flo rent would have him fail more visibly. in his son's sight, with a noose about his neck. it was dangerous to oppose the queen's men, but davos had vowed always to tell his king the truth. i think that would be ill done, my liege. ser cortnay will watch his father die before he would ever betray his trust. it would gain us nothing, and bring dishonor to our cause. what dishonor? stannis bristled. would you have me spare the lives of traitors? you have spared the lives of those behind us. do you scold me for that, smuggler? it is not my place. davos feared he had said too much. the king was relentless. you esteem this penrose more than you do my lords bannermen. why? he keeps faith. a misplaced faith in a dead usurper. yes, davos admitted, but still, he keeps faith. as those behind us do not? davos had come too far with stannis to play coy now. last year they were robert's men. a moon ago they were renly's. this morning they are yours. whose will they be on the morrow? and stannis laughed. a sudden gust, rough and full of scorn. i told you, melisandre, he said to the red woman, my onion knight tells me the truth. i see you know him well, your grace, the red woman said. davos, i have missed you sorely, the king said. aye, i have a tail of traitors, your nose does not deceive you. my lords bannermen are inconstant even in their treasons. i need them, but you should know how it sickens me to pardon such as these when i have punished better men for lesser crimes. you have every right to reproach me, ser davos. you reproach yourself more than i ever could, your grace. you must have these great lords to win your throne- fingers and all, it seems. stannis smiled grimly. unthinking, davos raised his maimed hand to the pouch at his throat, and felt the fingerbones within. luck. the king saw the motion. are they still there, onion knight? you have not lost them? no... why do you keep them? i have often wondered. they remind me of what i was. where i came from. they remind me of your justice, my liege. it was justice, stannis said. a good act does not wash out the bad, nor a bad act the good. each should have its own reward. you were a hero and a smuggler. he glanced behind at lord florent and the others, rainbow knights and turncloaks, who were following at a distance. these pardoned lords would do well to reflect on that. good men and true will fight for joffrey, wrongly believing him the true king. a northman might even say the same of robb stark. but these lords who flocked to my brother's banners knew him for a usurper. they turned their backs on their rightful king for no better reason than dreams of power and glory, and i have marked them for what they are. pardoned them, yes. forgiven. but not forgotten. he fell silent for a moment, brooding on his plans for justice. and then, abruptly, he said, what do the smallfolk say of renly's death?  they grieve. your brother was well loved. fools love a fool, grumbled stannis, but i grieve for him as well. for the boy he was, not the man he grew to be. he was silent for a time, and then he said, how did the commons take the news of cersei's incest? while we were among them they shouted for king stannis. i cannot speak for what they said once we had sailed. so you do not think they believed? when i was smuggling, i learned that some men believe everything and some nothing. we met both sorts. and there is another tale being spread as well- yes. stannis bit off the word. selyse has given me horns, and tied a fool's bells to the end of each. my daughter fathered by a halfwit jester! a tale as vile as it is absurd. renly threw it in my teeth when we met to parley. you would need to be as mad as patchface to believe such a thing. that may be so, my liege... but whether they believe the story or no, they delight to tell it. in many places it had come before them, poisoning the well for their own true tale. robert could piss in a cup and men would call it wine, but i offer them pure cold water and they squint in suspicion and mutter to each other about how queer it tastes. stannis ground his teeth. if someone said i had magicked myself into a boar to kill robert, likely they would believe that as well. you cannot stop them talking, my liege, davos said, but when you take your vengeance on your brothers' true killers, the realm will know such tales for lies. stannis only seemed to half hear him. i have no doubt that cersei had a hand in robert's death. i will have justice for him. aye, and for ned stark and jon arryn as well. and for renly? the words were out before davos could stop to consider them. for a long time the king did not speak. then, very softly, he said, i dream of it sometimes. of renly's dying. a green tent, candles, a woman screaming. and blood. stannis looked down at his hands. i was still abed when he died. your devan will tell you. he tried to wake me. dawn was nigh and my lords were waiting, fretting. i should have been ahorse, armored. i knew renly would attack at break of day. devan says i thrashed and cried out, but what does it matter? it was a dream. i was in my tent when renly died, and when i woke my hands were clean. ser davos seaworth could feel his phantom fingertips start to itch. something is wrong here, the onetime smuggler thought. yet he nodded and said, i see. renly offered me a peach. at our parley. mocked me, defied me, threatened me, and offered me a peach. i thought he was drawing a blade and went for mine own. was that his purpose, to make me show fear? or was it one of his pointless jests? when he spoke of how sweet the peach was, did his words have some hidden meaning? the king gave a shake of his head, like a dog shaking a rabbit to snap its neck. only renly could vex me so with a piece of fruit. he brought his doom on himself with his treason, but i did love him, davos. i know that now. i swear, i will go to my grave thinking of my brother's peach. by then they were in amongst the camp, riding past the ordered rows of tents, the blowing banners, and the stacks of shields and spears. the stink of horse dung was heavy in the air, mingled with the woodsmoke and the smell of cooking meat. stannis reined up long enough to bark a brusque dismissal to lord florent and the others, commanding them to attend him in his pavilion one hour hence for a council of war. they bowed their heads and dispersed, while davos and melisandre rode to the king's pavilion. the tent had to be large, since it was there his lords bannermen came to council. yet there was nothing grand about it. it was a soldier's tent of heavy canvas, dyed the dark yellow that sometimes passed for gold. only the royal banner that streamed atop the center pole marked it as a king's. that, and the guards without; queen's men leaning on tall spears, with the badge of the fiery heart sewn over their own. grooms came up to help them dismount. one of the guards relieved melisandre of her cumbersome standard, driving the staff deep into the soft ground. devan stood to one side of the door, waiting to lift the flap for the king. an older squire waited beside him. stannis took off his crown and handed it to devan. cold water, cups for two. davos, attend me. my lady, i shall send for you when i require you. as the king commands. melisandre bowed. after the brightness of the morning, the interior of the pavilion seemed cool and dim. stannis seated himself on a plain wooden camp stool and waved davos to another. one day i may make you a lord, smuggler. if only to irk celtigar and florent. you will not thank me, though. it will mean you must suffer through these councils, and feign interest in the braying of mules. why do you have them, if they serve no purpose? the mules love the sound of their own braying, why else? and i need them to haul my cart. oh, to be sure, once in a great while some useful notion is put forth. but not today, i think-ah, here's your son with our water. devan set the tray on the table and filled two clay cups. the king sprinkled a pinch of salt in his cup before he drank; davos took his water straight, wishing it were wine. you were speaking of your council? let me tell you how it will go. lord velaryon will urge me to storm the castle walls at first light, grapnels and scaling ladders against arrows and boiling oil. the young mules will think this a splendid notion. estermont will favor settling down to starve them out, as tyrell and redwyne once tried with me. that might take a year, but old mules are patient. and lord caron and the others who like to kick will want to take up ser cortnay's gauntlet and hazard all upon a single combat. each one imagining he will be my champion and win undying fame. the king finished his water. what would you have me do, smuggler? davos considered a moment before he answered. strike for king's landing at once. the king snorted. and leave storm's end untaken? ser cortnay does not have the power to harm you. the lannisters do. a siege would take too long, single combat is too chancy, and an assault would cost thousands of lives with no certainty of success. and there is no need. once you dethrone joffrey this castle must come to you with all the rest. it is said about the camp that lord tywin lannister rushes west to rescue lannisport from the vengeance of the northmen... you have a passing clever father, devan, the king told the boy standing by his elbow. he makes me wish i had more smugglers in my service. and fewer lords. though you are wrong in one respect, davos. there is a need. if i leave storm's end untaken in my rear, it will be said i was defeated here. and that i cannot permit. men do not love me as they loved my brothers. they follow me because they fear me... and defeat is death to fear. the castle must fall. his jaw ground side to side. aye, and quickly. doran martell has called his banners and fortified the mountain passes. his dornishmen are poised to sweep down onto the marches. and highgarden is far from spent. my brother left the greater part of his power at bitterbridge, near sixty thousand foot. i sent my wife's brother ser errol with ser parmen crane to take them under my command, but they have not returned. i fear that ser loras tyrell reached bitterbridge before my envoys, and took that host for his own. all the more reason to take king's landing as soon as we may. salladhor saan told me- salladhor saan thinks only of gold! stannis exploded. his head is full of dreams of the treasure he fancies lies under the red keep, so let us hear no more of salladhor saan. the day i need military counsel from a lysene brigand is the day i put off my crown and take the black. the king made a fist. are you here to serve me, smuggler? or to vex me with arguments? i am yours, davos said. then hear me. ser cortnay's lieutenant is cousin to the fossoways. lord meadows, a green boy of twenty. should some ill chance strike down penrose, command of storm's end would pass to this stripling, and his cousins believe he would accept my terms and yield up the castle. i remember another stripling who was given command of storm's end. he could not have been much more than twenty. lord meadows is not as stonehead stubborn as i was. stubborn or craven, what does it matter? ser cortnay penrose seemed hale and hearty to me. so did my brother, the day before his death. the night is dark and full of terrors, davos. davos seaworth felt the small hairs rising on the back of his neck. my lord, i do not understand you. i do not require your understanding. only your service. ser cortnay will be dead within the day. melisandre has seen it in the flames of the future. his death and the manner of it. he will not die in knightly combat, needless to say. stannis held out his cup, and devan filled it again from the flagon. her flames do not lie. she saw renly's doom as well. on dragonstone she saw it, and told selyse. lord velaryon and your friend salladhor saan would have had me sail against joffrey, but melisandre told me that if i went to storm's end, i would win the best part of my brother's power, and she was right. b-but, davos stammered, lord renly only came here because you had laid siege to the castle. he was marching toward king's landing before, against the lannisters, he would have- stannis shifted in his seat, frowning. was, would have, what is that? he did what he did. he came here with his banners and his peaches, to his doom... and it was well for me he did. melisandre saw another day in her flames as well. a morrow where renly rode out of the south in his green armor to smash my host beneath the walls of king's landing. had i met my brother there, it might have been me who died in place of him. or you might have joined your strength to his to bring down the lannisters, davos protested. why not that? if she saw two futures, well... both cannot be true. king stannis pointed a finger. there you err, onion knight. some lights cast more than one shadow. stand before the nightfire and you'll see for yourself. the flames shift and dance, never still. the shadows grow tall and short, and every man casts a dozen. some are fainter than others, that's all. well, men cast their shadows across the future as well. one shadow or many. melisandre sees them all. you do not love the woman. i know that, davos, i am not blind. my lords mislike her too. estermont thinks the flaming heart ill-chosen and begs to fight beneath the crowned stag as of old. ser guyard says a woman should not be my standard-bearer. others whisper that she has no place in my war councils, that i ought to send her back to asshai, that it is sinful to keep her in my tent of a night. aye, they whisper... while she serves. serves how? davos asked, dreading the answer. as needed. the king looked at him. and you? i... davos licked his lips. i am yours to command. what would you have me do? nothing you have not done before. only land a boat beneath the castle, unseen, in the black of night. can you do that? yes. tonight? the king gave a curt nod.'you will need a small boat. not black betha. no one must know what you do. davos wanted to protest. he was a knight now, no longer a smuggler, and he had never been an assassin. yet when he opened his mouth, the words would not come. this was stannis, his just lord, to whom he owed all he was. and he had his sons to consider as well. gods be good, what has she done to him? you are quiet, stannis observed. and should remain so, davos told himself, yet instead he said, my liege, you must have the castle, i see that now, but surely there are other ways. cleaner ways. let ser cortnay keep the bastard boy and he may well yield. i must have the boy, davos. must. melisandre has seen that in the flames as well. davos groped for some other answer. storm's end holds no knight who can match ser guyard or lord caron, or any of a hundred others sworn to your service. this single combat... could it be that ser cortnay seeks for a way to yield with honor? even if it means his own life?  a troubled look crossed the king's face like a passing cloud. more like he plans some treachery. there will be no combat of champions. ser cortnay was dead before he ever threw that glove. the flames do not lie, davos. yet they require me to make them true, he thought. it had been a long time since davos seaworth felt so sad. and so it was that he found himself once more crossing shipbreaker bay in the dark of night, steering a tiny boat with a black sail. the sky was the same, and the sea. the same salt smell was in the air, and the water chuckling against the hull was just as he remembered it. a thousand flickering camp fires burned around the castle, as the fires of the tyrells and redwynes had sixteen years before. but all the rest was different. the last time it was life i brought to storm's end, shaped to look like onions. this time it is death, in the shape of melisandre of asshai. sixteen years ago, the sails had cracked and snapped with every shift of wind, until he'd pulled them down and gone on with muffled oars. even so, his heart had been in his gullet. the men on the redwyne galleys had grown lax after so long, however, and they had slipped through the cordon smooth as black satin. this time, the only ships in sight belonged to stannis, and the only danger would come from watchers on the castle walls. even so, davos was taut as a bowstring. melisandre huddled upon a thwart, lost in the folds of a dark red cloak that covered her from head to heels, her face a paleness beneath the cowl. davos loved the water. he slept best when he had a deck rocking beneath him, and the sighing of the wind in his rigging was a sweeter sound to him than any a singer could make with his harp strings. even the sea brought him no comfort tonight, though. i can smell the fear on you, ser knight, the red woman said softly. someone once told me the night is dark and full of terrors. and tonight i am no knight. tonight i am davos the smuggler again. would that you were an onion. she laughed. is it me you fear? or what we do? what you do. i'll have no part of it. your hand raised the sail. your hand holds the tiller. silent, davos tended to his course. the shore was a snarl of rocks, so he was taking them well out across the bay. he would wait for the tide to turn before coming about. storm's end dwindled behind them, but the red woman seemed unconcerned. are you a good man, davos seaworth? she asked. would a good man be doing this? i am a man, he said. i am kind to my wife, but i have known other women. i have tried to be a father to my sons, to help make them a place in this world. aye, i've broken laws, but i never felt evil until tonight. i would say my parts are mixed, m'lady. good and bad. a grey man, she said. neither white nor black, but partaking of both. is that what you are, ser davos? what if i am? it seems to me that most men are grey. if half of an onion is black with rot, it is a rotten onion. a man is good, or he is evil. the fires behind them had melted into one vague glow against the black sky, and the land was almost out of sight. it was time to come about. watch your head, my lady. he pushed on the tiller, and the small boat threw up a curl of black water as she turned. melisandre leaned under the swinging yard, one hand on the gunwale, calm as ever. wood creaked, canvas cracked, and water splashed, so loudly a man might swear the castle was sure to hear. davos knew better. the endless crash of wave on rock was the only sound that ever penetrated the massive seaward walls of storm's end, and that but faintly. a rippling wake spread out behind as they swung back toward the shore. you speak of men and onions, davos said to melisandre. what of women? is it not the same for them? are you good or evil, my lady? that made her chuckle. oh, good. i am a knight of sorts myself, sweet ser. a champion of light and life. yet you mean to kill a man tonight, he said. as you killed maester cressen. your maester poisoned himself. he meant to poison me, but i was protected by a greater power and he was not. and renly baratheon? who was it who killed him? her head turned. beneath the shadow of the cowl, her eyes burned like pale red candle flames. not i. liar. davos was certain now. melisandre laughed again. you are lost in darkness and confusion, ser davos. and a good thing. davos gestured at the distant lights flickering along the walls of storm's end. feel how cold the wind is? the guards will huddle close to those torches. a little warmth, a little light, they're a comfort on a night like this. yet that will blind them, so they will not see us pass. i hope. the god of darkness protects us now, my lady. even you. the flames of her eyes seemed to burn a little brighter at that. speak not that name, ser. lest you draw his black eye upon us. he protects no man, i promise you. he is the enemy of all that lives. it is the torches that hide us, you have said so yourself. fire. the bright gift of the lord of light... have it your way. his way, rather. the wind was shifting, davos could feel it, see it in the way the black canvas rippled. he reached for the halyards. help me bring in the sail. i'll row us the rest of the way. together they tied off the sail as the boat rocked beneath them. as davos unshipped the oars and slid them into the choppy black water, he said, who rowed you to renly? there was no need, she said. he was unprotected. but here... this storm's end is an old place. there are spells woven into the stones. dark walls that no shadow can pass-ancient, forgotten, yet still in place. shadow? davos felt his flesh prickling. a shadow is a thing of darkness. you are more ignorant than a child, ser knight. there are no shadows in the dark. shadows are the servants of light, the children of fire. the brightest flame casts the darkest shadows. frowning, davos hushed her then. they were coming close to shore once more, and voices carried across the water. he rowed, the faint sound of his oars lost in the rhythm of the waves. the seaward side of storm's end perched upon a pale white cliff, the chalky stone sloping up steeply to half again the height of the massive curtain wall. a mouth yawned in the cliff, and it was that davos steered for, as he had sixteen years before. the tunnel opened on a cavern under the castle, where the storm lords of old had built their landing. the passage was navigable only during high tide, and was never less than treacherous, but his smuggler's skills had not deserted him. davos threaded their way deftly between the jagged rocks until the cave mouth loomed up before them. he let the waves carry them inside. they crashed around him, slamming the boat this way and that and soaking them to the skin. a half- seen finger of rock came rushing up out of the gloom, snarling foam, and davos barely kept them off it with an oar. then they were past, engulfed in darkness, and the waters smoothed. the little boat slowed and swirled. the sound of their breathing echoed until it seemed to surround them. davos had not expected the blackness. the last time, torches had burned all along the tunnel, and the eyes of starving men had peered down through the murder holes in the ceiling. the portcullis was somewhere ahead, he knew. davos used the oars to slow them, and they drifted against it almost gently. this is as far as we go, unless you have a man inside to lift the gate for us. his whispers scurried across the lapping water like a line of mice on soft pink feet. have we passed within the walls? yes. beneath. but we can go no farther. the portcullis goes all the way to the bottom. and the bars are too closely spaced for even a child to squeeze through. there was no answer but a soft rustling. and then a light bloomed amidst the darkness. davos raised a hand to shield his eyes, and his breath caught in his throat. melisandre had thrown back her cowl and shrugged out of the smothering robe. beneath, she was naked, and huge with child. swollen breasts hung heavy against her chest, and her belly bulged as if near to bursting. gods preserve us, he whispered, and heard her answering laugh, deep and throaty. her eyes were hot coals, and the sweat that dappled her skin seemed to glow with a light of its own. melisandre shone. panting, she squatted and spread her legs. blood ran down her thighs, black as ink. her cry might have been agony or ecstasy or both. and davos saw the crown of the child's head push its way out of her. two arms wriggled free, grasping, black fingers coiling around melisandre's straining thighs, pushing, until the whole of the shadow slid out into the world and rose taller than davos, tall as the tunnel, towering above the boat. he had only an instant to look at it before it was gone, twisting between the bars of the portcullis and racing across the surface of the water, but that instant was long enough. he knew that shadow. as he knew the man who'd cast it. blackwater bay was rough and choppy, whitecaps everywhere. black betha rode the flood tide, her sail cracking and snapping at each shift of wind. wraith and lady marya sailed beside her, no more than twenty yards between their hulls. his sons could keep a line. davos took pride in that. across the sea warhorns boomed, deep throaty moans like the calls of monstrous serpents, repeated ship to ship. bring down the sail, davos commanded. lower mast. oarsmen to your oars. his son matthos relayed the commands. the deck of black betha churned as crewmen ran to their tasks, pushing through the soldiers who always seemed to be in the way no matter where they stood. ser imry had decreed that they would enter the river on oars alone, so as not to expose their sails to the scorpions and spitfires on the walls of king's landing. davos could make out fury well to the southeast, her sails shimmering golden as they came down, the crowned stag of baratheon blazoned on the canvas. from her decks stannis baratheon had commanded the assault on dragonstone sixteen years before, but this time he had chosen to ride with his army, trusting fury and the command of his fleet to his wife's brother ser imry, who'd come over to his cause at storm's end with lord alester and all the other florents. davos knew fury as well as he knew his own ships. above her three hundred oars was a deck given over wholly to scorpions, and topside she mounted catapults fore and aft, large enough to fling barrels of burning pitch. a most formidable ship, and very swift as well, although ser irnry had packed her bow to stern with armored knights and men-at-arms, at some cost to her speed. the warhorns sounded again, commands drifting back from the fury. davos felt a tingle in his missing fingertips. out oars, he shouted. form line. a hundred blades dipped down into the water as the oarmaster's drum began to boom. the sound was like the beating of a great slow heart, and the oars moved at every stroke, a hundred men pulling as one. wooden wings had sprouted from the wraith and lady marya as well. the three galleys kept pace, their blades churning the water. slow cruise, davos called. lord velaryon's silver-hulled pride of driftmark had moved into her position to port of wraith, and bold laughter was coming up fast, but harridan was only now getting her oars into the water and seahorse was still struggling to bring down her mast. davos looked astern. yes, there, far to the south, that could only be swordfish, lagging as ever. she dipped two hundred oars and mounted the largest ram in the fleet, though davos had grave doubts about her captain. he could hear soldiers shouting encouragement to each other across the water. they'd been little more than ballast since storm's end, and were eager to get at the foe, confident of victory. in that, they were of one mind with their admiral, lord high captain ser imry flo rent. three days past, he had summoned all his captains to a war council aboard the fury while the fleet lay anchored at the mouth of the wendwater, in order to acquaint them with his dispositions. davos and his sons had been assigned a place in the second line of battle, well out on the dangerous starboard wing. a place of honor, allard had declared, well satisfied with the chance to prove his valor. a place of peril, his father had pointed out. his sons had given him pitying looks, even young marie. the onion knight has become an old woman, he could hear them thinking, still a smuggler at heart. well, the last was true enough, he would make no apologies for it. seaworth had a lordly ring to it, but down deep he was still davos of flea bottom, coming home to his city on its three high hills. he knew as much of ships and sails and shores as any man in the seven kingdoms, and had fought his share of desperate fights sword to sword on a wet deck. but to this sort of battle he came a maiden, nervous and afraid. smugglers do not sound warhorns and raise banners. when they smell danger, they raise sail and run before the wind. had he been admiral, he might have done it all differently. for a start, he would have sent a few of his swiftest ships to probe upriver and see what awaited them, instead of smashing in headlong. when he had suggested as much to ser imry, the lord high captain had thanked him courteously, but his eyes were not as polite. who is this lowborn craven? those eyes asked. is he the one who bought his knighthood with an onion? with four times as many ships as the boy king, ser imry saw no need for caution or deceptive tactics. he had organized the fleet into ten lines of battle, each of twenty ships. the first two lines would sweep up the river to engage and destroy joffrey's little fleet, or the boy's toys as ser imry dubbed them, to the mirth of his lordly captains. those that followed would land companies of archers and spearmen beneath the city walls, and only then join the fight on the river. the smaller, slower ships to the rear would ferry over the main part of stannis's host from the south bank, protected by salladhor saan and his lyseni, who would stand out in the bay in case the lannisters had other ships hidden up along the coast, poised to sweep down on their rear. to be fair, there was reason for ser imry's haste. the winds had not used them kindly on the voyage up from storm's end. they had lost two cogs to the rocks of shipbreaker bay on the very day they set sail, a poor way to begin. one of the myrish galleys had foundered in the straits of tarth, and a storm had overtaken them as they were entering the gullet, scattering the fleet across half the narrow sea. all but twelve ships had finally regrouped behind the sheltering spine of massey's hook, in the calmer waters of blackwater bay, but not before they had lost considerable time. stannis would have reached the rush days ago. the kingsroad ran from storm's end straight to king's landing, a much shorter route than by sea, and his host was largely mounted; near twenty thousand knights, light horse, and freeriders, renly's unwilling legacy to his brother. they would have made good time, but armored destriers and twelve-foot lances would avail them little against the deep waters of the blackwater rush and the high stone walls of the city. stannis would be camped with his lords on the south bank of the river, doubtless seething with impatience and wondering what ser imry had done with his fleet. off merling rock two days before, they had sighted a half-dozen fishing skiffs. the fisherfolk had fled before them, but one by one they had been overtaken and boarded. a small spoon of victory is just the thing to settle the stomach before battle, ser imry had declared happily. it makes the men hungry for a larger helping. but davos had been more interested in what the captives had to say about the defenses at king's landing. the dwarf had been busy building some sort of boom to close off the mouth of the river, though the fishermen differed as to whether the work had been completed or not. he found himself wishing it had. if the river was closed to them, ser imry would have no choice but to pause and take stock. the sea was full of sound: shouts and calls, warhorns and drums and the trill of pipes, the slap of wood on water as thousands of oars rose and fell. keep line, davos shouted. a gust of wind tugged at his old green cloak. a jerkin of boiled leather and a pothelm at his feet were his only armor. at sea, heavy steel was as like to cost a man his life as to save it, he believed. ser imry and the other highborn captains did not share his view; they glittered as they paced their decks. harridan and seahorse had slipped into their places now, and lord celtigar's red claw beyond them. to starboard of allard's lady marya were the three galleys that stannis had seized from the unfortunate lord sunglass, piety, prayer, and devotion, their decks crawling with archers. even swordfish was closing, lumbering and rolling through a thickening sea under both oars and sail. a ship of that many oars ought to be much faster, davos reflected with disapproval. it's that ram she carries, it's too big, she has no balance. the wind was gusting from the south, but under oars it made no matter. they would be sweeping in on the flood tide, but the lannisters would have the river current to their favor, and the blackwater rush flowed strong and swift where it met the sea. the first shock would inevitably favor the foe. we are fools to meet them on the blackwater, davos thought. in any encounter on the open sea, their battle lines would envelop the enemy fleet on both flanks, driving them inward to destruction. on the river, though, the numbers and weight of ser imry's ships would count for less. they could not dress more than twenty ships abreast, lest they risk tangling their oars and colliding with each other. beyond the line of warships, davos could see the red keep up on aegon's high hill, dark against a lemon sky, with the mouth of the rush opening out below. across the river the south shore was black with men and horses, stirring like angry ants as they caught sight of the approaching ships. stannis would have kept them busy building rafts and fletching arrows, yet even so the waiting would have been a hard thing to bear. trumpets sounded from among them, tiny and brazen, soon swallowed by the roar of a thousand shouts. davos closed his stubby hand around the pouch that held his fingerbones, and mouthed a silent prayer for luck. fury herself would center the first line of battle, flanked by the lord steffon and the stag of the sea, each of two hundred oars. on the port and starboard wings were the hundreds: lady harra, brightfish, laughing lord, sea demon, horned honor, ragged jenna, trident three, swift sword, princess rhaenys, dog's nose, sceptre, faithful, red raven, queen alysanne, cat, courageous, and dragonsbane. from every stern streamed the fiery heart of the lord of light, red and yellow and orange. behind davos and his sons came another line of hundreds commanded by knights and lordly captains, and then the smaller, slower myrish contingent, none dipping more than eighty oars. farther back would come the sailed ships, carracks and lumbering great cogs, and last of all salladhor saan in his proud valyrian, a towering three-hundred, paced by the rest of his galleys with their distinctive striped hulls. the flamboyant lyseni princeling had not been pleased to be assigned the rear guard, but it was clear that ser imry trusted him no more than stannis did. too many complaints, and too much talk of the gold he was owed. davos was sorry nonetheless. salladhor saan was a resourceful old pirate, and his crews were born seamen, fearless in a fight. they were wasted in the rear. ahooooooooooooooooooooooooo. the call rolled across whitecaps and churning oars from the forecastle of the fury: ser imry was sounding the attack. ahoooooooooooooooooooo, ahooooooooooooooooooooo. swordfish had joined the line at last, though she still had her sail raised. fast cruise, davos barked. the drum began to beat more quickly, and the stroke picked up, the blades of the oars cutting water, splash-swoosh, splash-swoosh, splash-swoosh. on deck, soldiers banged sword against shield, while archers quietly strung their bows and pulled the first arrow from the quivers at their belts. the galleys of the first line of battle obscured his vision, so davos paced the deck searching for a better view. he saw no sign of any boom; the mouth of the river was open, as if to swallow them all. except... in his smuggling days, davos had often jested that he knew the waterfront at king's landing a deal better than the back of his hand, since he had not spent a good part of his life sneaking in and out of the back of his hand. the squat towers of raw new stone that stood opposite one another at the mouth of the blackwater might mean nothing to ser imry flo rent, but to him it was as if two extra fingers had sprouted from his knuckles. shading his eyes against the westering sun, he peered at those towers more closely. they were too small to hold much of a garrison. the one on the north bank was built against the bluff with the red keep frowning above; its counterpart on the south shore had its footing in the water. they dug a cut through the bank, he knew at once. that would make the tower very difficult to assault; attackers would need to wade through the water or bridge the little channel. stannis had posted bowmen below, to fire up at the defenders whenever one was rash enough to lift his head above the ramparts, but otherwise had not troubled. something flashed down low where the dark water swirled around the base of the tower. it was sunlight on steel, and it told davos seaworth all he needed to know. a chain boom... and yet they have not closed the river against us. why? he could make a guess at that as well, but there was no time to consider the question. a shout went up from the ships ahead, and the warhorns blew again: the enemy was before them. between the flashing oars of sceptre and faithful, davos saw a thin line of galleys drawn across the river, the sun glinting off the gold paint that marked their hulls. he knew those ships as well as he knew his own. when he had been a smuggler, he'd always felt safer knowing whether the sail on the horizon marked a fast ship or a slow one, and whether her captain was a young man hungry for glory or an old one serving out his days. ahooooooooooooooooooooooooooo, the warhorns called. battle speed, davos shouted. on port and starboard he heard dale and allard giving the same command. drums began to beat furiously, oars rose and fell, and black betha surged forward. when he glanced toward wraith, dale gave him a salute. swordfish was lagging once more, wallowing in the wake of the smaller ships to either side; elsewise the line was straight as a shield wall. the river that had seemed so narrow from a distance now stretched wide as a sea, but the city had grown gigantic as well. glowering down from aegon's high hill, the red keep commanded the approaches. its iron-crowned battlements, massive towers, and thick red walls gave it the aspect of a ferocious beast hunched above river and streets. the bluffs on which it crouched were steep and rocky, spotted with lichen and gnarled thorny trees. the fleet would have to pass below the castle to reach the harbor and city beyond. the first line was in the river now, but the enemy galleys were backing water. they mean to draw us in. they want us jammed close, constricted, no way to sweep around their flanks... and with that boom behind us. he paced his deck, craning his neck for a better look at joffrey's fleet. the boy's toys included the ponderous godsgrace, he saw, the old slow prince aemon, the lady of silk and her sister lady's shame, wildwind, kingslander, white hart, lance, seaflower. but where was the lionstar? where was the beautiful lady lyanna that king robert had named in honor of the maid he'd loved and lost? and where was king robert's hammer? she was the largest war galley in the royal fleet, four hundred oars, the only warship the boy king owned capable of overmatching fury. by rights she should have formed the heart of any defense. davos tasted a trap, yet he saw no sign of any foes sweeping in behind them, only the great fleet of stannis baratheon in their ordered ranks, stretching back to the watery horizon. will they raise the chain and cut us in two? he could not see what good that would serve. the ships left out in the bay could still land men north of the city; a slower crossing, but safer. a flight of flickering orange birds took wing from the castle, twenty or thirty of them; pots of burning pitch, arcing out over the river trailing threads of flame. the waters ate most, but a few found the decks of galleys in the first line of battle, spreading flame when they shattered. men- at-arms were scrambling on queen alysanne's deck, and he could see smoke rising from three different spots on dragonsbane, nearest the bank. by then a second flight was on its way, and arrows were falling as well, hissing down from the archers' nests that studded the towers above. a soldier tumbled over cat's gunwale, crashed off the oars, and sank. the first man to die today, davos thought, but he will not be the last. atop the red keep's battlements streamed the boy king's banners: the crowned stag of baratheon on its gold field, the lion of lannister on crimson. more pots of pitch came flying. davos heard men shriek as fire spread across courageous. her oarsmen were safe below, protected from missiles by the half deck that sheltered them, but the men-at-arms crowded topside were not so fortunate. the starboard wing was taking all the damage, as he had feared. it will be our turn soon, he reminded himself, uneasy. black betha was well in range of the firepots, being the sixth ship out from the north bank. to starboard, she had only allard's lady marya, the ungainly swordfish-so far behind now that she was nearer the third line than the second-and piety, prayer, and devotion, who would need all the godly intervention they could get, placed as vulnerably as they were. as the second line swept past the twin towers, davos took a closer look. he could see three links of a huge chain snaking out from a hole no bigger than a man's head and disappearing under the water. the towers had a single door, set a good twenty feet off the ground. bowmen on the roof of the northern tower were firing down at prayer and devotion. the archers on devotion fired back, and davos heard a man scream as the arrows found him. captain ser. his son matthos was at his elbow. your helm. davos took it with both hands and slid it over his head. the pothelm. was visorless; he hated having his vision impeded. by then the pitch pots were raining down around them. he saw one shatter on the deck of lady marya, but allard's crew quickly beat it out. to port, warhorns sounded from the pride of driftmark. the oars flung up sprays of water with every stroke. the yard- long shaft of a scorpion came down not two feet from matthos and sank into the wood of the deck, thrumming. ahead, the first line was within bowshot of the enemy; flights of arrows flew between the ships, hissing like striking snakes. south of the blackwater, davos saw men dragging crude rafts toward the water while ranks and columns formed up beneath a thousand streaming banners. the fiery heart was everywhere, though the tiny black stag imprisoned in the flames was too small to make out. we should be flying the crowned stag, he thought. the stag was king robert's sigil, the city would rejoice to see it. this stranger's standard serves only to set men against us. he could not behold the fiery heart without thinking of the shadow melisandre had birthed in the gloom beneath storm's end. at least we fight this battle in the light, with the weapons of honest men, he told himself. the red woman and her dark children would have no part of it. stannis had shipped her back to dragonstone with his bastard nephew edric storm. his captains and bannermen had insisted that a battlefield was no place for a woman, only the queen's men had dissented, and then not loudly. all the same, the king had been on the point of refusing them until lord bryce caron said, your grace, if the sorceress is with us, afterward men will say it was her victory, not yours. they will say you owe your crown to her spells. that had turned the tide. davos himself had held his tongue during the arguments, but if truth be told, he had not been sad to see the back of her. he wanted no part of melisandre or her god. to starboard, devotion drove toward shore, sliding out a plank. archers scrambled into the shallows, holding their bows high over their heads to keep the strings dry. they splashed ashore on the narrow strand beneath the bluffs. rocks came bouncing down from the castle to crash among them, and arrows and spears as well, but the angle was steep and the missiles seemed to do little damage. prayer landed two dozen yards upstream and piety was slanting toward the bank when the defenders came pounding down the riverside, the hooves of their warhorses sending up gouts of water from the shallows. the knights fell among the archers like wolves among chickens, driving them back toward the ships and into the river before most could notch an arrow. men-at-arms rushed to defend them with spear and axe, and in three heartbeats the scene had turned to blood- soaked chaos. davos recognized the dog's-head helm of the hound. a white cloak streamed from his shoulders as he rode his horse up the plank onto the deck of prayer, hacking down anyone who blundered within reach. beyond the castle, king's landing rose on its hills behind the encircling walls. the riverfront was a blackened desolation; the lannisters had burned everything and pulled back within the mud gate. the charred spars of sunken hulks sat in the shallows, forbidding access to the long stone quays. we shall have no landing there. he could see the tops of three huge trebuchets behind the mud gate. high on visenya's hill, sunlight blazed off the seven crystal towers of the great sept of baelor. davos never saw the battle joined, but he heard it; a great rending crash as two galleys came together. he could not say which two. another impact echoed over the water an instant later, and then a third. beneath the screech of splintering wood, he heard the deep thrum-thump of the fury's fore catapult. stag of the sea split one of joffrey's galleys clean in two, but dog's nose was afire and queen alysanne was locked between lady of silk and lady's shame, her crew fighting the boarders rail-to-rail. directly ahead, davos saw the enemy's kingslander drive between faithful and sceptre. the former slid her starboard oars out of the way before impact, but sceptre's portside oars snapped like so much kindling as kingslander raked along her side. loose, davos commanded, and his bowmen sent a withering rain of shafts across the water. he saw kingslander' s captain fall, and tried to recall the man's name. ashore, the arms of the great trebuchets rose one, two, three, and a hundred stones climbed high into the yellow sky. each one was as large as a man's head; when they fell they sent up great gouts of water, smashed through oak planking, and turned living men into bone and pulp and gristle. all across the river the first line was engaged. grappling hooks were flung out, iron rams crashed through wooden hulls, boarders swarmed, flights of arrows whispered through each other in the drifting smoke, and men died... but so far, none of his. black betha swept upriver, the sound of her oarmaster's drum thundering in her captain's head as he looked for a likely victim for her ram. the beleaguered queen alysanne was trapped between two lannister warships, the three made fast by hooks and lines. ramming speed! davos shouted. the drumbeats blurred into a long fevered hammering, and black betha flew, the water turning white as milk as it parted for her prow. allard had seen the same chance; lady marya ran beside them. the first line had been transformed into a confusion of separate struggles. the three tangled ships loomed ahead, turning, their decks a red chaos as men hacked at each other with sword and axe. a little more, davos seaworth beseeched the warrior, bring her around a little more, show me her broadside. the warrior must have been listening. black betha and lady marya slammed into the side of lady's shame within an instant of each other, ramming her fore and aft with such force that men were thrown off the deck of lady of silk three boats away. davos almost bit his tongue off when his teeth jarred together. he spat out blood. next time close your mouth, you fool. forty years at sea, and yet this was the first time he'd rammed another ship. his archers were loosing arrows at will. back water, he commanded. when black betha reversed her oars, the river rushed into the splintered hole she left, and lady's shame fell to pieces before his eyes, spilling dozens of men into the river. some of the living swam; some of the dead floated; the ones in heavy mail and plate sank to the bottom, the quick and the dead alike. the pleas of drowning men echoed in his ears. a flash of green caught his eye, ahead and off to port, and a nest of writhing emerald serpents rose burning and hissing from the stern of queen alysanne. an instant later davos heard the dread cry of wildfire! he grimaced. burning pitch was one thing, wildfire quite another. evil stuff, and well-nigh unquenchable. smother it under a cloak and the cloak took fire; slap at a fleck of it with your palm and your hand was aflame. piss on wildfire and your cock burns off, old seamen liked to say. still, ser imry had warned them to expect a taste of the alchemists' vile substance. fortunately, there were few true pyromancers left. they will soon run out, ser imry had assured them. davos reeled off commands; one bank of oars pushed off while the other backed water, and the galley came about. lady marya had won clear too, and a good thing; the fire was spreading over queen alysanne and her foes faster than he would have believed possible. men wreathed in green flame leapt into the water, shrieking like nothing human, on the walls of king's landing, spitfires were belching death, and the great trebuchets behind the mud gate were throwing boulders. one the size of an ox crashed down between black betha and wraith, rocking both ships and soaking every man on deck. another, not much smaller, found bold laughter. the velaryon galley exploded like a child's toy dropped from a tower, spraying splinters as long as a man's arm. through black smoke and swirling green fire, davos glimpsed a swarm of small boats bearing downriver: a confusion of ferries and wherries, barges, skiffs, rowboats, and hulks that looked too rotten to float. it stank of desperation; such driftwood could not turn the tide of a fight, only get in the way. the lines of battle were hopelessly ensnarled, he saw. off to port, lord steffon, ragged fenna, and swift sword had broken through and were sweeping upriver. the starboard wing was heavily engaged, however, and the center had shattered under the stones of those trebuchets, some captains turning downstream, others veering to port, anything to escape that crushing rain. fury had swung her aft catapult to fire back at the city, but she lacked the range; the barrels of pitch were shattering under the walls. sceptre had lost most of her oars, and faithful had been rammed and was starting to list. he took black betha between them, and struck a glancing blow at queen cersei's ornate carved-and-gilded pleasure barge, laden with soldiers instead of sweetmeats now. the collision spilled a dozen of them into the river, where betha's archers picked them off as they tried to stay afloat. matthos's shout alerted him to the danger from port; one of the lannister galleys was coming about to ram. hard to starboard, davos shouted. his men used their oars to push free of the barge, while others turned the galley so her prow faced the onrushing white hart. for a moment he feared he'd been too slow, that he was about to be sunk, but the current helped swing black betha, and when the impact came it was only a glancing blow, the two hulls scraping against each other, both ships snapping oars. a jagged piece of wood flew past his head, sharp as any spear. davos flinched. board her! he shouted. grappling lines were flung. he drew his sword and led them over the rail himself. the crew of the white hart met them at the rail, but black betha's men-at-arms swept over them in a screaming steel tide. davos fought through the press, looking for the other captain, but the man was dead before he reached him. as he stood over the body, someone caught him from behind with an axe, but his helm turned the blow, and his skull was left ringing when it might have been split. dazed, it was all he could do to roll. his attacker charged screaming. davos grasped his sword in both hands and drove it up point first into the man's belly. one of his crewmen pulled him back to his feet. captain ser, the hart is ours. it was true, davos saw. most of the enemy were dead, dying, or yielded. he took off his helm, wiped blood from his face, and made his way back to his own ship, trodding carefully on boards slimy with men's guts. matthos lent him a hand to help him back over the rail. for those few instants, black betha and white hart were the calm eye in the midst of the storm. queen alysanne and lady of silk, still locked together, were a ranging green inferno, drifting downriver and dragging pieces of lady's shame. one of the myrish galleys had slammed into them and was now afire as well. cat was taking on men from the fastsinking courageous. the captain of dragonsbane had driven her between two quays, ripping out her bottom; her crew poured ashore with the archers and men-at-arms to join the assault on the walls. red raven, rammed, was slowly listing. stag of the sea was fighting fires and boarders both, but the fiery heart had been raised over joffrey's loyal man. fury, her proud bow smashed in by a boulder, was engaged with godsgrace. he saw lord velaryon's pride of driftmark crash between two lannister river runners, overturning one and lighting the other up with fire arrows. on the south bank, knights were leading their mounts aboard the cogs, and some of the smaller galleys were already making their way across, laden with men-at-arms. they had to thread cautiously between sinking ships and patches of drifting wildfire. the whole of king stannis's fleet was in the river now, save for salladhor saan's lyseni. soon enough they would control the blackwater. ser imry will have his victory, davos thought, and stannis will bring his host across, but gods be good, the cost of this... captain ser! matthos touched his shoulder. it was swordfish, her two banks of oars lifting and falling. she had never brought down her sails, and some burning pitch had caught in her rigging. the flames spread as davos watched, creeping out over ropes and sails until she trailed a head of yellow flame. her ungainly iron ram, fashioned after the likeness of the fish from which she took her name, parted the surface of the river before her. directly ahead, drifting toward her and swinging around to present a tempting plump target, was one of the lannister hulks, floating low in the water. slow green blood was leaking out between her boards. when he saw that, davos seaworth's heart stopped beating. no, he said. no, noooooooo! above the roar and crash of battle, no one heard him but matthos. certainly the captain of the swordfish did not, intent as he was on finally spearing something with his ungainly fat sword. the swordfish went to battle speed. davos lifted his maimed hand to clutch at the leather pouch that held his fingerbones. with a grinding, splintering, tearing crash, swordfish split the rotted hulk asunder. she burst like an overripe fruit, but no fruit had ever screamed that shattering wooden scream. from inside her davos saw green gushing from a thousand broken jars, poison from the entrails of a dying beast, glistening, shining, spreading across the surface of the river... back water, he roared. away. get us off her, back water, back water! the grappling lines were cut, and davos felt the deck move under his feet as black betha pushed free of white hart. her oars slid down into the water. then he heard a short sharp woof, as if someone had blown in his ear. haifa heartbeat later came the roar. the deck vanished beneath him, and black water smashed him across the face, filling his nose and mouth. he was choking, drowning. unsure which way was up, davos wrestled the river in blind panic until suddenly he broke the surface. he spat out water, sucked in air, grabbed hold of the nearest chunk of debris, and held on. swordfish and the hulk were gone, blackened bodies were floating downstream beside him, and choking men clinging to bits of smoking wood. fifty feet high, a swirling demon of green flame danced upon the river. it had a dozen hands, in each a whip, and whatever they touched burst into fire. he saw black betha burning, and white hart and loyal man to either side. piety, cat, courageous, sceptre, red raven, harridan, faithful, fury, they had all gone up, kingslander and godsgrace as well, the demon was eating his own. lord velaryon's shining pride of driftmark was trying to turn, but the demon ran a lazy green finger across her silvery oars and they flared up like so many tapers. for an instant she seemed to be stroking the river with two banks of long bright torches. the current had him in its teeth by then, spinning him around and around. he kicked to avoid a floating patch of wildfire. my sons, davos thought, but there was no way to look for them amidst the roaring chaos. another hulk heavy with wildfire went up behind him. the blackwater itself seemed to boil in its bed, and burning spars and burning men and pieces of broken ships filled the air. i'm being swept out into the bay. it wouldn't be as bad there; he ought to be able to make shore, he was a strong swimmer. salladhor saan's galleys would be out in the bay as well, ser imry had commanded them to stand off... and then the current turned him about again, and davos saw what awaited him downstream. the chain. gods save us, they've raised the chain. where the river broadened out into blackwater bay, the boom stretched taut, a bare two or three feet above the water. already a dozen galleys had crashed into it, and the current was pushing others against them. almost all were aflame, and the rest soon would be. davos could make out the striped hulls of salladhor saan's ships beyond, but he knew he would never reach them. a wall of red-hot steel, blazing wood, and swirling green flame stretched before him. the mouth of the blackwater rush had turned into the mouth of hell. 