sam? jon called softly. the air smelled of paper and dust and years. before him, tall wooden shelves rose up into dimness, crammed with leather-bound books and bins of ancient scrolls. a faint yellow glow filtered through the stacks from some hidden lamp. jon blew out the taper he carried, preferring not to risk an open flame amidst so much old dry paper. instead he followed the light, wending his way down the narrow aisles beneath barrel-vaulted ceilings. all in black, he was a shadow among shadows, dark of hair, long of face, grey of eye. black moleskin gloves covered his hands; the right because it was burned, the left because a man felt half a fool wearing only one glove. samwell tarly sat hunched over a table in a niche carved into the stone of the wall. the glow came from the lamp hung over his head. he looked up at the sound of jon's steps. have you been here all night? have i? sam looked startled. you didn't break your fast with us, and your bed hadn't been slept in. rast suggested that maybe sam had deserted, but jon never believed it. desertion required its own sort of courage, and sam had little enough of that. is it morning? down here there's no way to know. sam, you're a sweet fool, jon said. you'll miss that bed when we're sleeping on the cold hard ground, i promise you. sam yawned. maester aemon sent me to find maps for the lord commander. i never thought... jon, the books, have you ever seen their like? there are thousands! he gazed about him. the library at winterfell has more than a hundred. did you find the maps? oh, yes. sam's hand swept over the table, fingers plump as sausages indicating the clutter of books and scrolls before him. a dozen, at the least. he unfolded a square of parchment. the paint has faded, but you can see where the mapmaker marked the sites of wildling villages, and there's another book... where is it now? i was reading it a moment ago. he shoved some scrolls aside to reveal a dusty volume bound in rotted leather. this, he said reverently, is the account of a journey from the shadow tower all the way to lorn point on the frozen shore, written by a ranger named redwyn. it's not dated, but he mentions a dorren stark as king in the north, so it must be from before the conquest. jon, they fought giants! redwyn even traded with the children of the forest, it's all here. ever so delicately, he turned pages with a finger. he drew maps as well, see... maybe you could write an account of our ranging, sam. he'd meant to sound encouraging, but it was the wrong thing to say. the last thing sam needed was to be reminded of what faced them on the morrow. he shuffled the scrolls about aimlessly. there's more maps. if i had time to search... everything's a jumble. i could set it all to order, though; i know i could, but it would take time... well, years, in truth. mormont wanted those maps a little sooner than that. jon plucked a scroll from a bin, blew off the worst of the dust. a corner flaked off between his fingers as he unrolled it. look, this one is crumbling, he said, frowning over the faded script. be gentle. sam came around the table and took the scroll from his hand, holding it as if it were a wounded animal. the important books used to be copied over when they needed them. some of the oldest have been copied half a hundred times, probably. well, don't bother copying that one. twenty-three barrels of pickled cod, eighteen jars offish oil, a cask of salt... an inventory, sam said, or perhaps a bill of sale. who cares how much pickled cod they ate six hundred years ago? jon wondered. i would. sam carefully replaced the scroll in the bin from which jon had plucked it. you can learn so much from ledgers like that, truly you can. it can tell you how many men were in the night's watch then, how they lived, what they ate... they ate food, said jon, and they lived as we live. you'd be surprised. this vault is a treasure, jon. if you say so. jon was doubtful. treasure meant gold, silver, and jewels, not dust, spiders, and rotting leather. i do, the fat boy blurted. he was older than jon, a man grown by law, but it was hard to think of him as anything but a boy. i found drawings of the faces in the trees, and a book about the tongue of the children of the forest... works that even the citadel doesn't have, scrolls from old valyria, counts of the seasons written by maesters dead a thousand years... the books will still be here when we return. if we return... the old bear is taking two hundred seasoned men, three-quarters of them rangers. qhorin halfhand will be bringing another hundred brothers from the shadow tower. you'll be as safe as if you were back in your lord father's castle at horn hill. samwell tarly managed a sad little smile. i was never very safe in my father's castle either. the gods play cruel jests, jon thought. pyp and toad, all a lather to be a part of the great ranging, were to remain at castle black, it was samwell tarly, the self-proclaimed coward, grossly fat, timid, and near as bad a rider as he was with a sword, who must face the haunted forest. the old bear was taking two cages of ravens, so they might send back word as they went. maester aemon was blind and far too frail to ride with them, so his steward must go in his place. we need you for the ravens, sam. and someone has to help me keep grenn humble. sam's chins quivered. you could care for the ravens, or grenn could, or anyone, he said with a thin edge of desperation in his voice. i could show you how. you know your letters too, you could write down lord mormont 's messages as well as i i'm the old bear's steward. i'll need to squire for him, tend his horse, set up his tent; i won't have time to watch over birds as well. sam, you said the words. you're a brother of the night's watch now. a brother of the night's watch shouldn't be so scared. we're all scared. we'd be fools if we weren't. too many rangers had been lost the past two years, even benjen stark, jon's uncle. they had found two of his uncle's men in the wood, slain, but the corpses had risen in the chill of night. jon's burnt fingers twitched as he remembered. he still saw the wight in his dreams, dead othor with the burning blue eyes and the cold black hands, but that was the last thing sam needed to be reminded of. there's no shame in fear, my father told me, what matters is how we face it. come, i'll help you gather up the maps. sam nodded unhappily. the shelves were so closely spaced that they had to walk single file as they left. the vault opened onto one of the tunnels the brothers called the wormwalks, winding subterranean passages that linked the keeps and towers of castle black under the earth. in summer the wormwalks were seldom used, save by rats and other vermin, but winter was a different matter. when the snows drifted forty and fifty feet high and the ice winds came howling out of the north, the tunnels were all that held castle black together. soon, jon thought as they climbed. he'd seen the harbinger that had come to maester aemon with word of summer's end, the great raven of the citadel, white and silent as ghost. he had seen a winter once, when he was very young, but everyone agreed that it had been a short one, and mild. this one would be different. he could feel it in his bones. the steep stone steps had sam puffing like a blacksmith's bellows by the time they reached the surface. they emerged into a brisk wind that made jon's cloak swirl and snap. ghost was stretched out asleep beneath the wattle-and-daub wall of the granary, but he woke when jon appeared, bushy white tail held stiffly upright as he trotted to them. sam squinted up at the wall. it loomed above them, an icy cliff seven hundred feet high. sometimes it seemed to jon almost a living thing, with moods of its own. the color of the ice was wont to change with every shift of the light. now it was the deep blue of frozen rivers, now the dirty white of old snow, and when a cloud passed before the sun it darkened to the pale grey of pitted stone. the wall stretched east and west as far as the eye could see, so huge that it shrunk the timbered keeps and stone towers of the castle to insignificance, it was the end of the world. and we are going beyond it. the morning sky was streaked by thin grey clouds, but the pale red line was there behind them. the black brothers had dubbed the wanderer mormont's torch, saying (only half in jest) that the gods must have sent it to light the old man's way through the haunted forest. the comet's so bright you can see it by day now, sam said, shading his eyes with a fistful of books. never mind about comets, it's maps the old bear wants. ghost loped ahead of them. the grounds seemed deserted this morning, with so many rangers off at the brothel in mole's town, digging for buried treasure and drinking themselves blind. grenn had gone with them. pyp and haider and toad had offered to buy him his first woman to celebrate his first ranging. they'd wanted jon and sam to come as well, but sam was almost as frightened of whores as he was of the haunted forest, and jon had wanted no part of it. do what you want, he told toad, i took a vow. as they passed the sept, he heard voices raised in song. some men want whores on the eve of battle, and some want gods. jon wondered who felt better afterward. the sept tempted him no more than the brothel; his own gods kept their temples in the wild places, where the weirwoods spread their bone-white branches. the seven have no power beyond the wall, he thought, but my gods will be waiting. outside the armory, ser endrew tarth was working with some raw recruits. they'd come in last night with conwy, one of the wandering crows who roamed the seven kingdoms collecting men for the wall. this new crop consisted of a greybeard leaning on a staff, two blond boys with the look of brothers, a foppish youth in soiled satin, a raggy man with a clubfoot, and some grinning loon who must have fancied himself a warrior. ser endrew was showing him the error of that presumption. he was a gentler master-at-arms than ser alliser thorne had been, but his lessons would still raise bruises. sam winced at every blow, but jon snow watched the swordplay closely. what do you make of them, snow? donalnoye stood in the door of his armory, bare-chested under a leather apron, the stump of his left arm uncovered for once. with his big gut and barrel chest, his flat nose and bristly black jaw, noye did not make a pretty sight, but he was a welcome one nonetheless. the armorer had proved himself a good friend. they smell of summer, jon said as ser endrew bullrushed his foe and knocked him sprawling. where did conwy find them? a lord's dungeon near gulltown, the smith replied. a brigand, a barber, a beggar, two orphans, and a boy whore. with such do we defend the realms of men. they'll do. jon gave sam a private smile. we did. noye drew him closer. you've heard these tidings of your brother? last night. conwy and his charges had brought the news north with them, and the talk in the common room had been of little else. jon was still not certain how he felt about it. robb a king? the brother he'd played with, fought with, shared his first cup of wine with? but not mother's milk, no. so now robb will sip summerwine from jeweled goblets, while i'm kneeling beside some stream sucking snowmelt from cupped hands. robb will make a good king, he said loyally. will he now? the smith eyed him frankly. i hope that's so, boy, but once i might have said the same of robert. they say you forged his warhammer, jon remembered. aye. i was his man, a baratheon man, smith and armorer at storm's end until i lost the arm. i'm old enough to remember lord steffon before the sea took him, and i knew those three sons of his since they got their names. i tell you this- robert was never the same after he put on that crown. some men are like swords, made for fighting. hang them up and they go to rust. and his brothers? jon asked. the armorer considered that a moment. robert was the true steel. stannis is pure iron, black and hard and strong, yes, but brittle, the way iron gets. he'll break before he bends. and renly, that one, he's copper, bright and shiny, pretty to look at but not worth all that much at the end of the day. and what metal is robb? jon did not ask. noye was a baratheon man; likely he thought joffrey the lawful king and robb a traitor. among the brotherhood of the night's watch, there was an unspoken pact never to probe too deeply into such matters. men came to the wall from all of the seven kingdoms, and old loves and loyalties were not easily forgotten, no matter how many oaths a man swore... as jon himself had good reason to know. even sam-his father's house was sworn to highgarden, whose lord tyre 11 supported king renly. best not to talk of such things. the night's watch took no sides. lord mormont awaits us, jon said. i won't keep you from the old bear. noye clapped him on the shoulder and smiled. may the gods go with you on the morrow, snow. you bring back that uncle of yours, you hear? we will, jon promised him. lord commander mormont had taken up residence in the king's tower after the fire had gutted his own. jon left ghost with the guards outside the door. more stairs, said sam miserably as they started up. i hate stairs. well, that's one thing we won't face in the wood. when they entered the solar, the raven spied them at once. snow! the bird shrieked. mormont broke off his conversation. took you long enough with those maps. he pushed the remains of breakfast out of the way to make room on the table. put them here. i'll have a look at them later. thoren smallwood, a sinewy ranger with a weak chin and a weaker mouth hidden under a thin scraggle of beard, gave jon and sam a cool look. he had been one of alliser thome's henchmen, and had no love for either of them. the lord commander's place is at castle black, lording and commanding, he told mormont, ignoring the newcomers, it seems to me. the raven flapped big black wings. me, me, me. if you are ever lord commander, you may do as you please, mormont told the ranger, but it seems to me that i have not died yet, nor have the brothers put you in my place. i'm first ranger now, with ben stark lost and ser jaremy killed, smallwood said stubbornly. the command should be mine. mormont would have none of it. i sent out ben stark, and ser waymar before him. i do not mean to send you after them and sit wondering how long i must wait before i give you up for lost as well. he pointed. and stark remains first ranger until we know for a certainty that he is dead. should that day come, it will be me who names his successor, not you. now stop wasting my time. we ride at first light, or have you forgotten? smallwood pushed to his feet. as my lord commands. on the way out, he frowned at jon, as if it were somehow his fault. first ranger! the old bear's eyes lighted on sam. i'd sooner name you first ranger. he has the effrontery to tell me to my face that i'm too old to ride with him. do i look old to you, boy? the hair that had retreated from mormont's spotted scalp had regrouped beneath his chin in a shaggy grey beard that covered much of his chest. he thumped it hard. do i look frail? sam opened his mouth, gave a little squeak. the old bear terrified him. no, my lord, jon offered quickly. you look strong as a... a... don't cozen me, snow, you know i won't have it. let me have a look at these maps. mormont pawed through them brusquely, giving each no more than a glance and a grunt. was this all you could find? i... m-m-my lord, sam stammered, there... there were more, b-b-but... the dis-disorder... these are old, mormont complained, and his raven echoed him with a sharp cry of old, old. the villages may come and go, but the hills and rivers will be in the same places, jon pointed out. true enough. have you chosen your ravens yet, tarly? m-m-maester aemon m-means to p-pick them come evenfall, after the f-f-feeding. i'll have his best. smart birds, and strong. strong, his own bird said, preening. strong, strong. if it happens that we're all butchered out there, i mean for my successor to know where and how we died. talk of butchery reduced samwell tarly to speechlessness. mormont leaned forward. tarly, when i was a lad half your age, my lady mother told me that if i stood about with my mouth open, a weasel was like to mistake it for his lair and run down my throat. if you have something to say, say it. otherwise, beware of weasels. he waved a brusque dismissal. off with you, i'm too busy for folly. no doubt the maester has some work you can do. sam swallowed, stepped back, and scurried out so quickly he almost tripped over the rushes. is that boy as big a fool as he seems? the lord commander asked when he'd gone. fool, the raven complained. mormont did not wait for jon to answer. his lord father stands high in king renly's councils, and i had half a notion to dispatch him... no, best not. renly is not like to heed a quaking fat boy. i'll send ser arnell. he's a deal steadier, and his mother was one of the green-apple fossoways. if it please my lord, what would you have of king renly? the same things i'd have of all of them, lad. men, horses, swords, armor, grain, cheese, wine, wool, nails... the night's watch is not proud, we take what is offered. his fingers drummed against the roughhewn planks of the table. if the winds have been kind, ser alliser should reach king's landing by the turn of the moon, but whether this boy joffrey will pay him any heed, i do not know. house lannister has never been a friend to the watch. thorne has the wight's hand to show them. a grisly pale thing with black fingers, it was, that twitched and stirred in its jar as if it were still alive. would that we had another hand to send to renly. dywen says you can find anything beyond the wall. aye, dywen says. and the last time he went ranging, he says he saw a bear fifteen feet tall. mormont snorted. my sister is said to have taken a bear for her lover. i'd believe that before i'd believe one fifteen feet tall. though in a world where dead come walking... ah, even so, a man must believe his eyes. i have seen the dead walk. i've not seen any giant bears. he gave jon a long, searching look. but we were speaking of hands. how is yours? better. jon peeled off his moleskin glove and showed him. scars covered his arm halfway to the elbow, and the mottled pink flesh still felt tight and tender, but it was healing. it itches, though. maester aemon says that's good. he gave me a salve to take with me when we ride. you can wield longclaw despite the pain? well enough. jon flexed his fingers, opening and closing his fist the way the maester had shown him. i'm to work the fingers every day to keep them nimble, as maester aemon said. blind he may be, but aemon knows what he's about. i pray the gods let us keep him another twenty years. do you know that he might have been king? jon was taken by surprise. he told me his father was king, but not... i thought him perhaps a younger son. so he was. his father's father was daeron targaryen, the second of his name, who brought dome into the realm. part of the pact was that he wed a dornish princess. she gave him four sons. aemon's father maekar was the youngest of those, and aemon was his third son. mind you, all this happened long before i was born, ancient as smallwood would make me. maester aemon was named for the dragonknight. so he was. some say prince aemon was king daeron's true father, not aegon the unworthy. be that as it may, our aemon lacked the dragonknight 's martial nature. he likes to say he had a slow sword but quick wits. small wonder his grandfather packed him off to the citadel. he was nine or ten, i believe... and ninth or tenth in the line of succession as well. maester aemon had counted more than a hundred name days, jon knew. frail, shrunken, wizened, and blind, it was hard to imagine him as a little boy no older than arya. mormont continued. aemon was at his books when the eldest of his uncles, the heir apparent, was slain in a tourney mishap. he left two sons, but they followed him to the grave not long after, during the great spring sickness. king daeron was also taken, so the crown passed to daeron's second son, aerys. the mad king? jon was confused. aerys had been king before robert, that wasn't so long ago. no, this was aerys the first. the one robert deposed was the second of that name. how long ago was this? eighty years or close enough, the old bear said, and no, i still hadn't been born, though aemon had forged half a dozen links of his maester's chain by then. aerys wed his own sister, as the targaryens were wont to do, and reigned for ten or twelve years. aemon took his vows and left the citadel to serve at some lordling's court... until his royal uncle died without issue. the iron throne passed to the last of king daeron's four sons. that was maekar, aemon's father. the new king summoned all his sons to court and would have made aemon part of his councils, but he refused, saying that would usurp the place rightly belonging to the grand maester. instead he served at the keep of his eldest brother, another daeron. well, that one died too, leaving only a feeble-witted daughter as heir. some pox he caught from a whore, i believe. the next brother was aerion. aerion the monstrous? jon knew that name. the prince who thought he was a dragon was one of old nan's more gruesome tales. his little brother bran had loved it. the very one, though he named himself aerion brightflame. one night, in his cups, he drank a jar of wildfire, after telling his friends it would transform him into a dragon, but the gods were kind and it transformed him into a corpse. not quite a year after, king maekar died in battle against an outlaw lord. jon was not entirely innocent of the history of the realm; his own maester had seen to that. that was the year of the great council, he said. the lords passed over prince aerion's infant son and prince daeron's daughter and gave the crown to aegon. yes and no. first they offered it, quietly, to aemon. and quietly he refused. the gods meant for him to serve, not to rule, he told them. he had sworn a vow and would not break it, though the high septon himself offered to absolve him. well, no sane man wanted any blood of aerion's on the throne, and daeron's girl was a lackwit besides being female, so they had no choice but to turn to aemon's younger brother-aegon, the fifth of his name. aegon the unlikely, they called him, born the fourth son of a fourth son. aemon knew, and rightly, that if he remained at court those who disliked his brother's rule would seek to use him, so he came to the wall. and here he has remained, while his brother and his brother's son and his son each reigned and died in turn, until jaime lannister put an end to the line of the dragonkings. king, croaked the raven. the bird flapped across the solar to land on mormont's shoulder. king, it said again, strutting back and forth. he likes that word, jon said, smiling. an easy word to say. an easy word to like. king, the bird said again. i think he means for you to have a crown, my lord. the realm has three kings already, and that's two too many for my liking. mormont stroked the raven under the beak with a finger, but all the while his eyes never left jon snow. it made him feel odd. my lord, why have you told me this, about maester aemon? must i have a reason? mormont shifted in his seat, frowning. your brother robb has been crowned king in the north. you and aemon have that in common. a king for a brother. and this too, said jon. a vow. the old bear gave a loud snort, and the raven took flight, flapping in a circle about the room, give me a man for every vow i've seen broken and the wall will never lack for defenders. i've always known that robb would be lord of winterfell. mormont gave a whistle, and the bird flew to him again and settled on his arm. a lord's one thing, a king's another. he offered the raven a handful of corn from his pocket. they will garb your brother robb in silks, satins, and velvets of a hundred different colors, while you live and die in black ringmail. he will wed some beautiful princess and father sons on her. you'll have no wife, nor will you ever hold a child of your own blood in your arms. robb will rule, you will serve. men will call you a crow. him they'll call your grace. singers will praise every little thing he does, while your greatest deeds all go unsung. tell me that none of this troubles you, jon... and i'll name you a liar, and know i have the truth of it. jon drew himself up, taut as a bowstring. and if it did trouble me, what might i do, bastard as i am? what will you do? mormont asked. bastard as you are? be troubled, said jon, and keep my vows. whitetree, the village was named on sam's old maps. jon did not think it much of a village. four tumbledown oneroom houses of unmortared stone surrounded an empty sheepfold and a well. the houses were roofed with sod, the windows shuttered with ragged pieces of hide. and above them loomed the pale limbs and dark red leaves of a monstrous great weirwood. it was the biggest tree jon snow had ever seen, the trunk near eight feet wide, the branches spreading so far that the entire village was shaded beneath their canopy. the size did not disturb him so much as the face... the mouth especially, no simple carved slash, but a jagged hollow large enough to swallow a sheep. those are not sheep bones, though. nor is that a sheep's skull in the ashes. an old tree. mormont sat his horse, frowning. old, his raven agreed from his shoulder. old, old, old.  and powerful. jon could feel the power. thoren smallwood dismounted beside the trunk, dark in his plate and mail. look at that face. small wonder men feared them, when they first came to westeros. i'd like to take an axe to the bloody thing myself. jon said, my lord father believed no man could tell a lie in front of a heart tree. the old gods know when men are lying. my father believed the same, said the old bear. let me have a look at that skull. jon dismounted. slung across his back in a black leather shoulder sheath was longclaw, the hand-and-a-half bastard blade the old bear had given him for saving his life. a bastard sword for a bastard, the men joked. the hilt had been fashioned new for him, adorned with a wolfs head pommel in pale stone, but the blade itself was valyrian steel, old and light and deadly sharp. he knelt and reached a gloved hand down into the maw. the inside of the hollow was red with dried sap and blackened by fire. beneath the skull he saw another, smaller, the jaw broken off. it was half-buried in ash and bits of bone. when he brought the skull to mormont, the old bear lifted it in both hands and stared into the empty sockets. the wildlings burn their dead. we've always known that. now i wished i'd asked them why, when there were still a few around to ask. jon snow remembered the wight rising, its eyes shining blue in the pale dead face. he knew why, he was certain. would that bones could talk, the old bear grumbled. this fellow could tell us much. how he died. who burned him, and why. where the wildlings have gone. he sighed. the children of the forest could speak to the dead, it's said. but i can't. he tossed the skull back into the mouth of the tree, where it landed with a puff of fine ash. go through all these houses. giant, get to the top of this tree, have a look. i'll have the hounds brought up too. perchance this time the trail will be fresher. his tone did not suggest that he held out much hope of the last. two men went through each house, to make certain nothing was missed. jon was paired with dour eddison tollett, a squire grey of hair and thin as a pike, whom the other brothers called dolorous edd. bad enough when the dead come walking, he said to jon as they crossed the village, now the old bear wants them talking as well? no good will come of that, i'll warrant. and who's to say the bones wouldn't lie? why should death make a man truthful, or even clever? the dead are likely dull fellows, full of tedious complaints-the ground's too cold, my gravestone should be larger, why does he get more worms than i do... jon had to stoop to pass through the low door. within he found a packed dirt floor. there were no furnishings, no sign that people had lived here but for some ashes beneath the smoke hole in the roof. what a dismal place to live, he said. i was born in a house much like this, declared dolorous edd. those were my enchanted years. later i fell on hard times. a nest of dry straw bedding filled one corner of the room. edd looked at it with longing. i'd give all the gold in casterly rock to sleep in a bed again. you call that a bed? if it's softer than the ground and has a roof over it, i call it a bed. dolorous edd sniffed the air. i smell dung. the smell was very faint. old dung, said jon. the house felt as though it had been empty for some time. kneeling, he searched through the straw with his hands to see if anything had been concealed beneath, then made a round of the walls. it did not take very long. there's nothing here. nothing was what he had expected; whitetree was the fourth village they had passed, and it had been the same in all of them. the people were gone, vanished with their scant possessions and whatever animals they may have had. none of the villages showed any signs of having been attacked. they were simply... empty. what do you think happened to them all? jon asked. something worse than we can imagine, suggested dolorous edd. well, i might be able to imagine it, but i'd sooner not. bad enough to know you're going to come to some awful end without thinking about it aforetime. two of the hounds were sniffing around the door as they reemerged. other dogs ranged through the village. chett was cursing them loudly, his voice thick with the anger he never seemed to put aside. the light filtering through the red leaves of the weirwood made the boils on his face look even more inflamed than usual. when he saw jon his eyes narrowed; there was no love lost between them. the other houses had yielded no wisdom. gone, cried mormont's raven, flapping up into the weirwood to perch above them. gone, gone, gone.  there were wildlings at whitetree only a year ago. thoren smallwood looked more a lord than mormont did, clad in ser jaremy rykker's gleaming black mail and embossed breastplate. his heavy cloak was richly trimmed with sable, and clasped with the crossed hammers of the rykkers, wrought in silver. ser jaremy' s cloak, once... but the wight had claimed ser jaremy, and the night's watch wasted nothing. a year ago robert was king, and the realm was at peace, declared jarman buckwell, the square stolid man who commanded the scouts. much can change in a year's time. one thing hasn't changed, ser mallador locke insisted. fewer wildlings means fewer worries. i won't mourn, whatever's become of them. raiders and murderers, the lot of them. jon heard a rustling from the red leaves above. two branches parted, and he glimpsed a little man moving from limb to limb as easily as a squirrel. bedwyck stood no more than five feet tall, but the grey streaks in his hair showed his age. the other rangers called him giant. he sat in a fork of the tree over their heads and said, there's water to the north. a lake, might be. a few flint hills rising to the west, not very high. nothing else to see, my lords. we might camp here tonight, smallwood suggested. the old bear glanced up, searching for a glimpse of sky through the pale limbs and red leaves of the weirwood. no, he declared. giant, how much daylight remains to us? three hours, my lord. we'll press on north, mormont decided. if we reach this lake, we can make camp by the shore, perchance catch a few fish. jon, fetch me paper, it's past time i wrote maester aemon. jon found parchment, quill, and ink in his saddlebag and brought them to the lord commander. at whitetree, mormont scrawled. the fourth village. all empty. the wildlings are gone. find tarly and see that he gets this on its way, he said as he handed jon the message. when he whistled, his raven came flapping down to land on his horse's head. corn, the raven suggested, bobbing. the horse whickered. jon mounted his garron, wheeled him about, and trotted off. beyond the shade of the great weirwood the men of the night's watch stood beneath lesser trees, tending their horses, chewing strips of salt beef, pissing, scratching, and talking. when the command was given to move out again, the talk died, and they climbed back into their saddles. jarman buckwell' s scouts rode out first, with the vanguard under thoren smallwood heading the column proper. then came the old bear with the main force, ser mallador locke with the baggage train and packhorses, and finally ser ottyn wythers and the rear guard. two hundred men all told, with half again as many mounts. by day they followed game trails and streambeds, the ranger's roads that led them ever deeper into the wilderness of leaf and root. at night they camped beneath a starry sky and gazed up at the comet. the black brothers had left castle black in good spirits, joking and trading tales, but of late the brooding silence of the wood seemed to have sombered them all. jests had grown fewer and tempers shorter. no one would admit to being afraid-they were men of the night's watch, after ail-but jon could feel the unease. four empty villages, no wildlings anywhere, even the game seemingly fled. the haunted forest had never seemed more haunted, even veteran rangers agreed. as he rode, jon peeled off his glove to air his burned fingers. ugly things. he remembered suddenly how he used to muss arya's hair. his little stick of a sister. he wondered how she was faring. it made him a little sad to think that he might never muss her hair again. he began to flex his hand, opening and closing the fingers. if he let his sword hand stiffen and grow clumsy, it well might be the end of him, he knew. a man needed his sword beyond the wall. jon found samwell tarly with the other stewards, watering his horses. he had three to tend: his own mount, and two packhorses, each bearing a large wire-and-wicker cage full of ravens. the birds flapped their wings at jon's approach and screamed at him through the bars. a few shrieks sounded suspiciously like words. have you been teaching them to talk? he asked sam. a few words. three of them can say snow one bird croaking my name was bad enough, said jon, and snow's nothing a black brother wants to hear about. snow often meant death in the north. was there anything in whitetree? bones, ashes, and empty houses. jon handed sam the roll of parchment. the old bear wants word sent back to aemon. sam took a bird from one of the cages, stroked its feathers, attached the message, and said, fly home now, brave one. home. the raven quorked something unintelligible back at him, and sam tossed it into the air. flapping, it beat its way skyward through the trees. i wish he could carry me with him. still? well, said sam, yes, but... i'm not as frightened as i was, truly. the first night, every time i heard someone getting up to make water, i thought it was wildlings creeping in to slit my throat. i was afraid that if i closed my eyes, i might never open them again, only... well... dawn came after all. he managed a wan smile. i may be craven, but i'm not stupid. i'm sore and my back aches from riding and from sleeping on the ground, but i'm hardly scared at all. look. he held out a hand for jon to see how steady it was. i've been working on my maps. the world is strange, jon thought. two hundred brave men had left the wall, and the only one who was not growing more fearful was sam, the self-confessed coward. we'll make a ranger of you yet, he joked. next thing, you'll want to be an outrider like grenn. shall i speak to the old bear? don't you dare! sam pulled up the hood of his enormous black cloak and clambered awkwardly back onto his horse. it was a plow horse, big and slow and clumsy, but better able to bear his weight than the little garrons the rangers rode. i had hoped we might stay the night in the village, he said wistfully. it would be nice to sleep under a roof again. too few roofs for all of us. jon mounted again, gave sam a parting smile, and rode off. the column was well under way, so he swung wide around the village to avoid the worst of the congestion. he had seen enough of whitetree. ghost emerged from the undergrowth so suddenly that the garron shied and reared. the white wolf hunted well away from the line of march, but he was not having much better fortune than the foragers smallwood sent out after game. the woods were as empty as the villages, dywen had told him one night around the fire. we're a large party, jon had said. the game's probably been frightened away by all the noise we make on the march. frightened away by something, no doubt, dywen said. once the horse had settled, ghost loped along easily beside him. jon caught up to mormont as he was wending his way around a hawthorn thicket. is the bird away? the old bear asked. yes, my lord. sam is teaching them to talk. the old bear snorted. he'll regret that. damned things make a lot of noise, but they never say a thing worth hearing. they rode in silence, until jon said, if my uncle found all these villages empty as well- --he would have made it his purpose to learn why, lord mormont finished for him, and it may well be someone or something did not want that known. well, we'll be three hundred when qhorin joins us. whatever enemy waits out here will not find us so easy to deal with. we will find them, jon, i promise you. or they will find us, thought jon. a blowing rain lashed at jon's face as he spurred his horse across the swollen stream. beside him, lord commander mormont gave the hood of his cloak a tug, muttering curses on the weather. his raven sat on his shoulder, feathers ruffled, as soaked and grumpy as the old bear himself. a gust of wind sent wet leaves flapping round them like a flock of dead birds. the haunted forest, jon thought ruefully. the drowned forest, more like it. he hoped sam was holding up, back down the column. he was not a good rider even in fair weather, and six days of rain had made the ground treacherous, all soft mud and hidden rocks. when the wind blew, it drove the water right into their eyes. the wall would be flowing off to the south, the melting ice mingling with warm rain to wash down in sheets and rivers. pyp and toad would be sitting near the fire in the common room, drinking cups of mulled wine before their supper. jon envied them. his wet wool clung to him sodden and itching, his neck and shoulders ached fiercely from the weight of mail and sword, and he was sick of salt cod, salt beef, and hard cheese. up ahead a hunting horn sounded a quavering note, half drowned beneath the constant patter of the rain. buckwell's horn, the old bear announced. the gods are good; craster's still there. his raven gave a single flap of his big wings, croaked corn, and ruffled his feathers up again. jon had often heard the black brothers tell tales of craster and his keep. now he would see it with his own eyes. after seven empty villages, they had all come to dread finding craster's as dead and desolate as the rest, but it seemed they would be spared that. perhaps the old bear will finally get some answers, he thought. anyway, we'll be out of the rain. thoren smallwood swore that craster was a friend to the watch, despite his unsavory reputation. the man's half-mad, i won't deny it, he'd told the old bear, but you'd be the same if you'd spent your life in this cursed wood. even so, he's never turned a ranger away from his fire, nor does he love mance rayder. he'll give us good counsel. so long as he gives us a hot meal and a chance to dry our clothes, i'll be happy. dywen said craster was a kinslayer, liar, raper, and craven, and hinted that he trafficked with slavers and demons. and worse, the old forester would add, clacking his wooden teeth. there's a cold smell to that one, there is. jon, lord mormont commanded, ride back along the column and spread the word. and remind the officers that i want no trouble about craster's wives. the men are to mind their hands and speak to these women as little as need be. aye, my lord. jon turned his horse back the way they'd come. it was pleasant to have the rain out of his face, if only for a little while. everyone he passed seemed to be weeping. the march was strung out through half a mile of woods. in the midst of the baggage train, jon passed samwell tarly, slumped in his saddle under a wide floppy hat. he was riding one dray horse and leading the others. the drumming of the rain against the hoods of their cages had the ravens squawking and fluttering. you put a fox in with them? jon called out. water ran off the brim of sam's hat as he lifted his head. oh, hullo, jon. no, they just hate the rain, the same as us. how are you faring, sam? wetly. the fat boy managed a smile. nothing has killed me yet, though. good. craster's keep is just ahead. if the gods are good, he'll let us sleep by his fire. sam looked dubious. dolorous edd says craster's a terrible savage. he marries his daughters and obeys no laws but those he makes himself. and dywen told grenn he's got black blood in his veins. his mother was a wildling woman who lay with a ranger, so he's a bas-. suddenly he realized what he was about to say. a bastard, jon said with a laugh. you can say it, sam. i've heard the word before. he put the spurs to his surefooted little garron. i need to hunt down ser ottyn. be careful around craster's women. as if samwell tarly needed warning on that score. we'll talk later, after we've made camp. jon carried the word back to ser ottyn wythers, plodding along with the rear guard. a small prune-faced man of an age with mormont, ser ottyn always looked tired, even at castle black, and the rain had beaten him down unmercifully. welcome tidings, he said. this wet has soaked my bones, and even my saddle sores complain of saddle sores. on his way back, jon swung wide of the column's line of march and took a shorter path through the thick of the wood. the sounds of man and horse diminished, swallowed up by the wet green wild, and soon enough he could hear only the steady wash of rain against leaf and tree and rock. it was midafternoon, yet the forest seemed as dark as dusk. jon wove a path between rocks and puddles, past great oaks, grey-green sentinels, and black-barked ironwoods. in places the branches wove a canopy overhead and he was given a moment's respite from the drumming of the rain against his head. as he rode past a lightning -blasted chestnut tree overgrown with wild white roses, he heard something rustling in the underbrush. ghost, he called out. ghost, to me. but it was dywen who emerged from the greenery, forking a shaggy grey garron with grenn ahorse beside him. the old bear had deployed outriders to either side of the main column, to screen their march and warn of the approach of any enemies, and even there he took no chances, sending the men out in pairs. ah, it's you, lord snow. dywen smiled an oaken smile; his teeth were carved of wood, and fit badly. thought me and the boy had us one o' them others to deal with. lose your wolf? he's off hunting. ghost did not like to travel with the column, but he would not be far. when they made camp for the night, he'd find his way to jon at the lord commander's tent. fishing, i'd call it, in this wet, dywen said. my mother always said rain was good for growing crops, grenn put in hopefully. aye, a good crop of mildew, dywen said. the best thing about a rain like this, it saves a man from taking baths. he made a clacking sound on his wooden teeth. buckwell's found craster, jon told them. had he lost him? dywen chuckled. see that you young bucks don't go nosing about craster's wives, you hear? jon smiled. want them all for yourself, dywen? dywen clacked his teeth some more. might be i do. craster's got ten fingers and one cock, so he don't count but to eleven. he'd never miss a couple. how many wives does he have, truly? grenn asked. more'n you ever will, brother. well, it's not so hard when you breed your own. there's your beast, snow. ghost was trotting along beside jon's horse with tail held high, his white fur ruffed up thick against the rain. he moved so silently jon could not have said just when he appeared. grenn' s mount shied at the scent of him; even now, after more than a year, the horses were uneasy in the presence of the direwolf with me, ghost. jon spurred off to craster's keep. he had never thought to find a stone castle on the far side of the wall, but he had pictured some sort of motte-and-bailey with a wooden palisade and a timber tower keep. what they found instead was a midden heap, a pigsty, an empty sheepfold, and a windowless daub-and-wattle hall scarce worthy of the name. it was long and low, chinked together from logs and roofed with sod. the compound stood atop a rise too modest to name a hill, surrounded by an earthen dike. brown rivulets flowed down the slope where the rain had eaten gaping holes in the defenses, to join a rushing brook that curved around to the north, its thick waters turned into a murky torrent by the rains. on the southwest, he found an open gate flanked by a pair of animal skulls on high poles: a bear to one side, a ram to the other. bits of flesh still clung to the bear skull, jon noted as he joined the line riding past. within, jarmen buckwell's scouts and men from thoren smallwood's van were setting up horse lines and struggling to raise tents. a host of piglets rooted about three huge sows in the sty. nearby, a small girl pulled carrots from a garden, naked in the rain, while two women tied a pig for slaughter. the animal's squeals were high and horrible, almost human in their distress. chett's hounds barked wildly in answer, snarling and snapping despite his curses, with a pair of craster's dogs barking back. when they saw ghost, some of the dogs broke off and ran, while others began to bay and growl. the direwolf ignored them, as did jon. well, thirty of us will be warm and dry, jon thought once he'd gotten a good look at the hall. perhaps as many as fifty. the place was much too small to sleep two hundred men, so most would need to remain outside. and where to put them? the rain had turned half the compound yard to ankle-deep puddles and the rest to sucking mud. another dismal night was in prospect. the lord commander had entrusted his mount to dolorous edd. he was cleaning mud out of the horse's hooves as jon dismounted. lord mormont's in the hall, he announced. he said for you to join him. best leave the wolf outside, he looks hungry enough to eat one of craster's children. well, truth be told, i'm hungry enough to eat one of craster's children, so long as he was served hot. go on, i'll see to your horse. if it's warm and dry inside, don't tell me, i wasn't asked in. he flicked a glob of wet mud out from under a horseshoe. does this mud look like shit to you? could it be that this whole hill is made of craster's shit? jon smiled. well, i hear he's been here a long time, you cheer me not. go see the old bear. ghost, stay, he commanded. the door to craster's keep was made of two flaps of deerhide. jon shoved between them, stooping to pass under the low lintel. two dozen of the chief rangers had preceded him, and were standing around the firepit in the center of the dirt floor while puddles collected about their boots. the hall stank of soot, dung, and wet dog. the air was heavy with smoke, yet somehow still damp. rain leaked through the smoke hole in the roof. it was all a single room, with a sleeping loft above reached by a pair of splintery ladders. jon remembered how he'd felt the day they had left the wall: nervous as a maiden, but eager to glimpse the mysteries and wonders beyond each new horizon. well, here's one of the wonders, he told himself, gazing about the squalid, foul-smelling hall. the acrid smoke was making his eyes water. a pity that pyp and toad can't see all they're missing. craster sat above the fire, the only man to enjoy his own chair. even lord commander mormont must seat himself on the common bench, with his raven muttering on his shoulder. jarman buckwell stood behind, dripping from patched mail and shiny wet leather, beside thoren smallwood in the late ser jaremy's heavy breastplate and sable-trimmed cloak. craster's sheepskin jerkin and cloak of sewn skins made a shabby contrast, but around one thick wrist was a heavy ring that had the glint of gold. he looked to be a powerful man, though well into the winter of his days now, his mane of hair grey going to white. a flat nose and a drooping mouth gave him a cruel look, and one of his ears was missing. so this is a wildling. jon remembered old nan's tales of the savage folk who drank blood from human skulls. craster seemed to be drinking a thin yellow beer from a chipped stone cup. perhaps he had not heard the stories. i've not seen benjen stark for three years, he was telling mormont. and if truth be told, i never once missed him. a half-dozen black puppies and the odd pig or two skulked among the benches, while women in ragged deerskins passed horns of beer, stirred the fire, and chopped carrots and onions into a kettle. he ought to have passed here last year, said thoren smallwood. a dog came sniffing round his leg. he kicked it and sent it off yipping. lord mormont said, ben was searching for ser waymar royce, who'd vanished with gared and young will. aye, those three i recall. the lordling no older than one of these pups. too proud to sleep under my roof, him in his sable cloak and black steel. my wives give him big cow eyes all the same. he turned his squint on the nearest of the women. gared says they were chasing raiders. i told him, with a commander that green, best not catch 'em. gared wasn't half-bad, for a crow. had less ears than me, that one. the 'bite took 'em, same as mine. craster laughed. now i hear he got no head neither. the 'bite do that too? jon remembered a spray of red blood on white snow, and the way theon greyjoy had kicked the dead man's head. the man was a deserter. on the way back to winterfell, jon and robb had raced, and found six direwolf pups in the snow. a thousand years ago. when ser waymar left you, where was he bound? craster gave a shrug. happens i have better things to do than tend to the comings and goings of crows. he drank a pull of beer and set the cup aside. had no good southron wine up here for a bear's night. i could use me some wine, and a new axe. mine's lost its bite, can't have that, i got me women to protect. he gazed around at his scurrying wives. you are few here, and isolated, mormont said. if you like, i'll detail some men to escort you south to the wall. the raven seemed to like the notion. wall, it screamed, spreading black wings like a high collar behind mormont's head. their host gave a nasty smile, showing a mouthful of broken brown teeth. and what would we do there, serve you at supper? we're free folk here. craster serves no man. these are bad times to dwell alone in the wild. the cold winds are rising. let them rise. my roots are sunk deep. craster grabbed a passing woman by the wrist. tell him, wife. tell the lord crow how well content we are. the woman licked at thin lips. this is our place. craster keeps us safe. better to die free than live a slave. slave, muttered the raven. mormont leaned forward. every village we have passed has been abandoned. yours are the first living faces we've seen since we left the wall. the people are gone... whether dead, fled, or taken, i could not say. the animals as well. nothing is left. and earlier, we found the bodies of two of ben stark's rangers only a few leagues from the wall. they were pale and cold, with black hands and black feet and wounds that did not bleed. yet when we took them back to castle black they rose in the night and killed. one slew ser jaremy rykker and the other came for me, which tells me that they remember some of what they knew when they lived, but there was no human mercy left in them. the woman's mouth hung open, a wet pink cave, but craster only gave a snort. we've had no such troubles here... and i'll thank you not to tell such evil tales under my roof. i'm a godly man, and the gods keep me safe. if wights come walking, i'll know how to send them back to their graves. though i could use me a sharp new axe. he sent his wife scurrying with a slap on her leg and a shout of more beer, and be quick about it. no trouble from the dead, jarmen buckwell said, but what of the living, my lord? what of your king? king! cried mormont's raven. king, king, king. that mance rayder? craster spit into the fire. king-beyond- the wall. what do free folk want with kings? he turned his squint on mormont. there's much i could tell you o' rayder and his doings, if i had a mind. this o' the empty villages, that's his work. you would have found this hall abandoned as well, if i were a man to scrape to such. he sends a rider, tells me i must leave my own keep to come grovel at his feet. i sent the man back, but kept his tongue. it's nailed to that wall there. he pointed. might be that i could tell you where to seek mance rayder. if i had a mind. the brown smile again. but we'll have time enough for that. you'll be wanting to sleep beneath my roof, belike, and eat me out of pigs. a roof would be most welcome, my lord, mormont said. we've had hard riding, and too much wet. then you'll guest here for a night. no longer, i'm not that fond o' crows. the loft's for me and mine, but you'll have all the floor you like. i've meat and beer for twenty, no more. the rest o' your black crows can peck after their own corn. we've packed in our own supplies, my lord, said the old bear. we should be pleased to share our food and wine. craster wiped his drooping mouth with the back of a hairy hand. i'll taste your wine, lord crow, that i will. one more thing. any man lays a hand on my wives, he loses the hand. your roof, your rule, said thoren smallwood, and lord mormont nodded stiffly, though he looked none too pleased. that's settled, then. craster grudged them a grunt. d'ya have a man can draw a map? sam tarly can. jon pushed forward. sam loves maps. mormont beckoned him closer. send him here after he's eaten. have him bring quill and parchment. and find tollett as well. tell him to bring my axe. a guest gift for our host. who's this one now? craster said before jon could go. he has the look of a stark. my steward and squire, jon snow. a bastard, is it? craster looked jon up and down. man wants to bed a woman, seems like he ought to take her to wife. that's what i do. he shooed jon off with a wave. well, run and do your service, bastard, and see that axe is good and sharp now, i've no use for dull steel. jon snow bowed stiffly and took his leave. ser ottyn wythers was coming in as he was leaving, and they almost collided at the deerhide door. outside, the rain seemed to have slackened. tents had gone up all over the compound. jon could see the tops of others under the trees. dolorous edd was feeding the horses. give the wildling an axe, why not? he pointed out mormont's weapon, a shorthafted battle-axe with gold scrollwork inlaid on the black steel blade. he'll give it back, i vow. buried in the old bear's skull, like as not. why not give him all our axes, and our swords as well? i mislike the way they clank and rattle as we ride. we'd travel faster without them, straight to hell's door. does it rain in hell, i wonder? perhaps craster would like a nice hat instead. jon smiled. he wants an axe. and wine as well. see, the old bear's clever, if we get the wildling well and truly drunk, perhaps he'll only cut off an ear when he tries to slay us with that axe. i have two ears but only one head. smallwood says craster is a friend to the watch. do you know the difference between a wildling who's a friend to the watch and one who's not? asked the dour squire. our enemies leave our bodies for the crows and the wolves. our friends bury us in secret graves. i wonder how long that bear's been nailed up on that gate, and what craster had there before we came hallooing? edd looked at the axe doubtfully, the rain running down his long face. is it dry in there? drier than out here. if i lurk about after, not too close to the fire, be like they'll take no note of me till morn. the ones under his roof will be the first he murders, but at least we'll die dry. jon had to laugh. craster's one man. we're two hundred. i doubt he'll murder anyone. you cheer me, said edd, sounding utterly morose. and besides, there's much to be said for a good sharp axe. i'd hate to be murdered with a maul. i saw a man hit in the brow with a maul once. scarce split the skin at all, but his head turned mushy and swelled up big as a gourd, only purply-red. a comely man, but he died ugly. it's good that we're not giving them mauls. edd walked away shaking his head, his sodden black cloak shedding rain behind him. jon got the horses fed before he stopped to think of his own supper. he was wondering where to find sam when he heard a shout of fear. wolf! he sprinted around the hall toward the cry, the earth sucking at his boots. one of craster's women was backed up against the mud-spattered wall of the keep. keep away, she was shouting at ghost. you keep away! the direwolf had a rabbit in his mouth and another dead and bloody on the ground before him. get it away, m'lord, she pleaded when she saw him. he won't hurt you. he knew at once what had happened; a wooden hutch, its slats shattered, lay on its side in the wet grass. he must have been hungry. we haven't seen much game. jon whistled. the direwolf bolted down the rabbit, crunching the small bones between his teeth, and padded over to him. the woman regarded them with nervous eyes. she was younger than he'd thought at first. a girl of fifteen or sixteen years, he judged, dark hair plastered across a gaunt face by the falling rain, her bare feet muddy to the ankles. the body under the sewn skins was showing in the early turns of pregnancy. are you one of craster's daughters? he asked. she put a hand over her belly. wife now. edging away from the wolf, she knelt mournfully beside the broken hutch. i was going to breed them rabbits. there's no sheep left. the watch will make good for them. jon had no coin of his own, or he would have offered it to her... though he was not sure what good a few coppers or even a silver piece would do her beyond the wall. i'll speak to lord mormont on the morrow. she wiped her hands on her skirt. mtord- i'm no lord. but others had come crowding round, drawn by the woman's scream and the crash of the rabbit hutch. don't you believe him, girl, called out lark the sisterman, a ranger mean as a cur. that's lord snow himself. bastard of winterfell and brother to kings, mocked chett, who'd left his hounds to see what the commotion was about. that wolfs looking at you hungry, girl, lark said. might be it fancies that tender bit in your belly. jon was not amused. you're scaring her. warning her, more like. chett's grin was as ugly as the boils that covered most of his face. we're not to talk to you, the girl remembered suddenly. wait, jon said, too late. she bolted, ran. lark made a grab for the second rabbit, but ghost was quicker. when he bared his teeth, the sisterman slipped in the mud and went down on his bony butt. the others laughed. the direwolf took the rabbit in his mouth and brought it to jon. there was no call to scare the girl, he told them. we'll hear no scolds from you, bastard. chett blamed jon for the loss of his comfortable position with maester aemon, and not without justice. if he had not gone to aemon about sam tarly, chett would still be tending an old blind man instead of a pack of ill-tempered hunting hounds. you may be the lord commander's pet, but you're not the lord commander... and you wouldn't talk so bloody bold without that monster of yours always about. i'll not fight a brother while we're beyond the wall, jon answered, his voice cooler than he felt. lark got to one knee. he's afraid of you, chett. on the sisters, we have a name for them like him. i know all the names. save your breath. he walked away, ghost at his side. the rain had dwindled to a thin drizzle by the time he reached the gate. dusk would be on them soon, followed by another wet dark dismal night. the clouds would hide moon and stars and mormont's torch, turning the woods black as pitch. every piss would be an adventure, if not quite of the sort jon snow had once envisioned. out under the trees, some rangers had found enough duff and dry wood to start a fire beneath a slanting ridge of slate. others had raised tents or made rude shelters by stretching their cloaks over low branches. giant had crammed himself inside the hollow of a dead oak. how dye like my castle, lord snow? it looks snug. you know where sam is? keep on the way you were. if you come on ser ottyn's pavilion, you've gone too far. giant smiled. unless sam's found him a tree too. what a tree that would be. it was ghost who found sam in the end. the direwolf shot ahead like a quarrel from a crossbow. under an outcrop of rock that gave some small degree of shelter from the rain, sam was feeding the ravens. his boots squished when he moved. my feet are soaked through, he admitted miserably. when i climbed off my horse, i stepped in a hole and went in up to my knees. take off your boots and dry your stockings. i'll find some dry wood. if the ground's not wet under the rock, we might be able to get a fire burning. jon showed sam the rabbit. and we'll feast. won't you be attending lord mormont in the hall? no, but you will. the old bear wants you to map for him. craster says he'll find mance rayder for us. oh. sam did not look anxious to meet craster, even if it meant a warm fire. he said eat first, though. dry your feet. jon went to gather fuel, digging down under deadfalls for the drier wood beneath and peeling back layers of sodden pine needles until he found likely kindling. even then, it seemed to take forever for a spark to catch. he hung his cloak from the rock to keep the rain off his smoky little fire, making them a small snug alcove. as he knelt to skin the rabbit, sam pulled off his boots. i think there's moss growing between my toes, he declared mournfully, wriggling the toes in question. the rabbit will taste good. i don't even mind about the blood and all. he looked away. well, only a little... jon spitted the carcass, banked the fire with a pair of rocks, and balanced their meal atop them. the rabbit had been a scrawny thing, but as it cooked it smelled like a king's feast. other rangers gave them envious looks. even ghost looked up hungrily, flames shining in his red eyes as he sniffed. you had yours before, jon reminded him. is craster as savage as the rangers say? sam asked. the rabbit was a shade underdone, but tasted wonderful. what's his castle like? a midden heap with a roof and a firepit. jon told sam what he had seen and heard in craster 's keep. by the time the telling was done, it was dark outside and sam was licking his fingers. that was good, but now i'd like a leg of lamb. a whole leg, just for me, sauced with mint and honey and cloves. did you see any lambs? there was a sheepfold, but no sheep. how does he feed all his men? i didn't see any men, just craster and his women and a few small girls. i wonder he's able to hold the place. his defenses were nothing to speak of, only a muddy dike. you had better go up to the hall and draw that map. can you find the way? if i don't fall in the mud. sam struggled back into his boots, collected quill and parchment, and shouldered out into the night, the rain pattering down on his cloak and floppy hat. ghost laid his head on his paws and went to sleep by the fire. jon stretched out beside him, grateful for the warmth. he was cold and wet, but not so cold and wet as he'd been a short time before. perhaps tonight the old bear will learn something that will lead us to uncle benjen. he woke to the sight of his own breath misting in the cold morning air. when he moved, his bones ached. ghost was gone, the fire burnt out. jon reached to pull aside the cloak he'd hung over the rock, and found it stiff and frozen. he crept beneath it and stood up in a forest turned to crystal. the pale pink light of dawn sparkled on branch and leaf and stone. every blade of grass was carved from emerald, every drip of water turned to diamond. flowers and mushrooms alike wore coats of glass. even the mud puddles had a bright brown sheen. through the shimmering greenery, the black tents of his brothers were encased in a fine glaze of ice. so there is magic beyond the wall after all. he found himself thinking of his sisters, perhaps because he'd dreamed of them last night. sansa would call this an enchantment, and tears would fill her eyes at the wonder of it, but arya would run out laughing and shouting, wanting to touch it all. lord snow? he heard. soft and meek. he turned. crouched atop the rock that had sheltered him during the night was the rabbit keeper, wrapped in a black cloak so large it drowned her. sam's cloak, jon realized at once. why is she wearing sam's cloak? the fat one told me i'd find you here, m'lord, she said. we ate the rabbit, if that's what you came for. the admission made him feel absurdly guilty. old lord crow, him with the talking bird, he gave craster a crossbow worth a hundred rabbits. her arms closed over the swell of her belly. is it true, m'lord? are you brother to a king? a half brother, he admitted. i'm ned stark's bastard. my brother robb is the king in the north. why are you here? the fat one, that sam, he said to see you. he give me his cloak, so no one would say i didn't belong. won't craster be angry with you? my father drank overmuch of the lord crow's wine last night. he'll sleep most of the day. her breath frosted the air in small nervous puffs. they say the king gives justice and protects the weak. she started to climb off the rock, awkwardly, but the ice had made it slippery and her foot went out from under her. jon caught her before she could fall, and helped her safely down. the woman knelt on the icy ground. m'lord, i beg you- don't beg me anything. go back to your hall, you shouldn't be here. we were commanded not to speak to craster's women. you don't have to speak with me, m'lord. just take me with you, when you go, that's all i ask. all she asks, he thought. as if that were nothing. i'll... i'll be your wife, if you like. my father, he's got nineteen now, one less won't hurt him none. black brothers are sworn never to take wives, don't you know that? and we're guests in your father's hall besides. not you, she said. i watched. you never ate at his board, nor slept by his fire. he never gave you guest-right, so you're not bound to him. it's for the baby i have to go. i don't even know your name. gilly, he called me. for the gillyflower. that's pretty. he remembered sansa telling him once that he should say that whenever a lady told him her name. he could not help the girl, but perhaps the courtesy would please her. is it craster who frightens you, gilly? for the baby, not for me. if it's a girl, that's not so bad, she'll grow a few years and he'll marry her. but nella says it's to be a boy, and she's had six and knows these things. he gives the boys to the gods. come the white cold, he does, and of late it comes more often. that's why he started giving them sheep, even though he has a taste for mutton. only now the sheep's gone too. next it will be dogs, till... she lowered her eyes and stroked her belly. what gods? jon was remembering that they'd seen no boys in craster's keep, nor men either, save craster himself. the cold gods, she said. the ones in the night. the white shadows. and suddenly jon was back in the lord commander's tower again. a severed hand was climbing his calf and when he pried it off with the point of his longsword, it lay writhing, fingers opening and closing. the dead man rose to his feet, blue eyes shining in that gashed and swollen face. ropes of torn flesh hung from the great wound in his belly, yet there was no blood. what color are their eyes? he asked her. blue. as bright as blue stars, and as cold. she has seen them, he thought. craster lied. will you take me? just so far as the wall- we do not ride for the wall. we ride north, after mance rayder and these others, these white shadows and their wights. we seek them, gilly. your babe would not be safe with us. her fear was plain on her face. you will come back, though. when your warring's done, you'll pass this way again. we may. if any of us still live. that's for the old bear to say, the one you call the lord crow. i'm only his squire. i do not choose the road i ride. no. he could hear the defeat in her voice. sorry to be of trouble, m'lord. i only... they said the king keeps people safe, and i thought... despairing, she ran, sam's cloak flapping behind her like great black wings. jon watched her go, his joy in the morning's brittle beauty gone. damn her, he thought resentfully, and damn sam twice for sending her to me. what did he think i could do for her? we're here to fight wildlings, not save them. other men were crawling from their shelters, yawning and stretching. the magic was already faded, icy brightness turning back to common dew in the light of the rising sun. someone had gotten a fire started; he could smell woodsmoke drifting through the trees, and the smoky scent of bacon. jon took down his cloak and snapped it against the rock, shattering the thin crust of ice that had formed in the night, then gathered up longclaw and shrugged an arm through a shoulder strap. a few yards away he made water into a frozen bush, his piss steaming in the cold air and melting the ice wherever it fell. afterward he laced up his black wool breeches and followed the smells. grenn and dywen were among the brothers who had gathered round the fire. hake handed jon a hollow heel of bread filled with burnt bacon and chunks of salt fish warmed in bacon grease. he wolfed it down while listening to dywen boast of having three of craster's women during the night. you did not, grenn said, scowling. i would have seen. dywen whapped him up alongside his ear with the back of his hand. you? seen? you're blind as maester aemon. you never even saw that bear. what bear? was there a bear? there's always a bear, declared dolorous edd in his usual tone of gloomy resignation. one killed my brother when i was young. afterward it wore his teeth around its neck on a leather thong. and they were good teeth too, better than mine. i've had nothing but trouble with my teeth. did sam sleep in the hall last night? jon asked him. i'd not call it sleeping. the ground was hard, the rushes ill-smelling, and my brothers snore frightfully. speak of bears if you will, none ever growled so fierce as brown bernarr. i was warm, though. some dogs crawled atop me during the night. my cloak was almost dry when one of them pissed in it. or perhaps it was brown bernarr. have you noticed that the rain stopped the instant i had a roof above me? it will start again now that i'm back out. gods and dogs alike delight to piss on me. i'd best go see to lord mormont, said jon. the rain might have stopped, but the compound was still a morass of shallow lakes and slippery mud. black brothers were folding their tents, feeding their horses, and chewing on strips of salt beef. jarman buckwell's scouts were tightening the girths on their saddles before setting out. jon, buckwell greeted him from horseback. keep a good edge on that bastard sword of yours. we'll be needing it soon enough. craster's hall was dim after daylight. inside, the night's torches had burned low, and it was hard to know that the sun had risen. lord mormont's raven was the first to spy him enter. three lazy flaps of its great black wings, and it perched atop longclaw's hilt. corn? it nipped at a strand of jon's hair. ignore that wretched beggar bird, jon, it's just had half my bacon. the old bear sat at craster's board, breaking his fast with the other officers on fried bread, bacon, and sheepgut sausage. craster's new axe was on the table its gold inlay gleaming faintly in the torchlight, its owner was sprawled unconscious in the sleeping loft above, but the women were all up, moving about and serving. what sort of day do we have?  cold, but the rain has stopped. very good. see that my horse is saddled and ready. i mean for us to ride within the hour. have you eaten? craster serves plain fare, but filling. i will not eat craster's food, he decided suddenly. i broke my fast with the men, my lord. jon shooed the raven off longclaw. the bird hopped back to mormont's shoulder, where it promptly shat. you might have done that on snow instead of saving it for me, the old bear grumbled. the raven quorked. he found sam behind the hall, standing with gilly at the broken rabbit hutch. she was helping him back into his cloak, but when she saw jon she stole away. sam gave him a look of wounded reproach. i thought you would help her. and how was i to do that? jon said sharply. take her with us, wrapped up in your cloak? we were commanded not to- i know, said sam guiltily, but she was afraid. i know what it is to be afraid. i told her... he swallowed. what? that we'd take her with us? sam's fat face blushed a deep red. on the way home. he could not meet jon's eyes. she's going to have a baby. sam, have you taken leave of all your sense? we may not even return this way. and if we do, do you think the old bear is going to let you pack off one of craster's wives? i thought... maybe by then i could think of a way. i have no time for this, i have horses to groom and saddle. jon walked away as confused as he was angry. sam's heart was a big as the rest of him, but for all his reading he could be as thick as grenn at times. it was impossible, and dishonorable besides. so why do i feel so ashamed? jon took his accustomed position at mormont's side as the night's watch streamed out past the skulls on craster's gate. they struck off north and west along a crooked game trail. melting ice dripped down all about them, a slower sort of rain with its own soft music. north of the compound, the brook was in full spate, choked with leaves and bits of wood, but the scouts had found where the ford lay and the column was able to splash across. the water ran as high as a horse's belly. ghost swam, emerging on the bank with his white fur dripping brown. when he shook, spraying mud and water in all directions, mormont said nothing, but on his shoulder the raven screeched. my lord, jon said quietly as the wood closed in around them once more. craster has no sheep. nor any sons. mormont made no answer. at winterfell one of the serving women told us stories, jon went on. she used to say that there were wildlings who would lay with the others to birth half- human children. hearth tales. does craster seem less than human to you? in half a hundred ways. he gives his sons to the wood. a long silence. then: yes. and yes, the raven muttered, strutting. yes, yes, yes. you knew? smallwood told me. long ago. all the rangers know, though few will talk of it. did my uncle know? all the rangers, mormont repeated. you think i ought to stop him. kill him if need be. the old bear sighed. were it only that he wished to rid himself of some mouths, i'd gladly send yoren or conwys to collect the boys. we could raise them to the black and the watch would be that much the stronger. but the wildlings serve crueler gods than you or i. these boys are craster's offerings. his prayers, if you will. his wives must offer different prayers, jon thought. how is it you came to know this? the old bear asked him. from one of craster's wives? yes, my lord, jon confessed. i would sooner not tell you which. she was frightened and wanted help. the wide world is full of people wanting help, jon. would that some could find the courage to help themselves. craster sprawls in his loft even now, stinking of wine and lost to sense. on his board below lies a sharp new axe. were it me, i'd name it 'answered prayer' and make an end. yes. jon thought of gilly. she and her sisters. they were nineteen, and craster was one, but... yet it would be an ill day for us if craster died. your uncle could tell you of the times craster's keep made the difference between life and death for our rangers. my father... he hesitated. go on, jon. say what you would say. my father once told me that some men are not worth having, jon finished. a bannerman who is brutal or unjust dishonors his liege lord as well as himself. craster is his own man. he has sworn us no vows. nor is he subject to our laws. your heart is noble, jon, but learn a lesson here. we cannot set the world to rights. that is not our purpose. the night's watch has other wars to fight. other wars. yes. i must remember. jarman buckwell said i might have need of my sword soon. did he? mormont did not seem pleased. craster said much and more last night, and confirmed enough of my fears to condemn me to a sleepless night on his floor. mance rayder is gathering his people together in the frostfangs. that's why the villages are empty. it is the same tale that ser denys mallister had from the wildling his men captured in the gorge, but craster has added the where, and that makes all the difference. is he making a city, or an army? now, that is the question. how many wildlings are there? how many men of fighting age? no one knows with certainty. the frostfangs are cruel, inhospitable, a wilderness of stone and ice. they will not long sustain any great number of people. i can see only one purpose in this gathering. mance rayder means to strike south, into the seven kingdoms. wildlings have invaded the realm before. jon had heard the tales from old nan and maester luwin both, back at winterfell. raymun redbeard led them south in the time of my grandfather's grandfather, and before him there was a king named bael the bard. aye, and long before them came the horned lord and the brother kings gendel and gorne, and in ancient days joramun, who blew the horn of winter and woke giants from the earth. each man of them broke his strength on the wall, or was broken by the power of winterfell on the far side... but the night's watch is only a shadow of what we were, and who remains to oppose the wildlings besides us? the lord of winterfell is dead, and his heir has marched his strength south to fight the lannisters. the wildlings may never again have such a chance as this. i knew mance rayder, jon. he is an oathbreaker, yes... but he has eyes to see, and no man has ever dared to name him faintheart. what will we do? asked jon. find him, said mormont. fight him. stop him. three hundred, thought jon, against the fury of the wild. his fingers opened and closed. the hill jutted above the dense tangle of forest, rising solitary and sudden, its windswept heights visible from miles off. the wildlings called it the fist of the first men, rangers said. it did look like a fist, jon snow thought, punching up through earth and wood, its bare brown slopes knuckled with stone. he rode to the top with lord mormont and the officers, leaving ghost below under the trees. the direwolf had run off three times as they climbed, twice returning reluctantly to jon's whistle. the third time, the lord commander lost patience and snapped, let him go, boy. i want to reach the crest before dusk. find the wolf later. the way up was steep and stony, the summit crowned by a chest-high wall of tumbled rocks. they had to circle some distance west before they found a gap large enough to admit the horses. this is good ground, thoren, the old bear proclaimed when at last they attained the top. we could scarce hope for better. we'll make our camp here to await halfhand. the lord commander swung down off his saddle, dislodging the raven from his shoulder. complaining loudly, the bird took to the air. the views atop the hill were bracing, yet it was the ringwall that drew jon's eye, the weathered grey stones with their white patches of lichen, their beards of green moss. it was said that the fist had been a ringfort of the first men in the dawn age. an old place, and strong, thoren smallwood said. old, mormont's raven screamed as it flapped in noisy circles about their heads. old, old, old. quiet, mormont growled up at the bird. the old bear was too proud to admit to weakness, but jon was not deceived. the strain of keeping up with younger men was taking its toll. these heights will be easy to defend, if need be, thoren pointed out as he walked his horse along the ring of stones, his sable-trimmed cloak stirring in the wind. yes, this place will do. the old bear lifted a hand to the wind, and raven landed on his forearm, claws scrabbling against his black ringmail. what about water, my lord? jon wondered. we crossed a brook at the foot of the hill. a long climb for a drink, jon pointed out, and outside the ring of stones. thoren said, are you too lazy to climb a hill, boy? when lord mormont said, we're not like to find another place as strong. we'll carry water, and make certain we are well supplied, jon knew better than to argue. so the command was given, and the brothers of the night's watch raised their camp behind the stone ring the first men had made. black tents sprouted like mushrooms after a rain, and blankets and bedrolls covered the bare ground. stewards tethered the garrons in long lines, and saw them fed and watered. foresters took their axes to the trees in the waning afternoon light to harvest enough wood to see them through the night. a score of builders set to clearing brush, digging latrines, and untying their bundles of fire-hardened stakes. i will have every opening in the ringwall ditched and staked before dark, the old bear had commanded. once he'd put up the lord commander's tent and seen to their horses, jon snow descended the hill in search of ghost. the direwolf came at once, all in silence. one moment jon was striding beneath the trees, whistling and shouting, alone in the green, pinecones and fallen leaves under his feet; the next, the great white direwolf was walking beside him, pale as morning mist. but when they reached the ringfort, ghost balked again. he padded forward warily to sniff at the gap in the stones, and then retreated, as if he did not like what he'd smelled. jon tried to grab him by the scruff of his neck and haul him bodily inside the ring, no easy task; the wolf weighed as much as he did, and was stronger by far. ghost, what's wrong with you? it was not like him to be so unsettled, in the end jon had to give it up. as you will, he told the wolf. go, hunt. the red eyes watched him as he made his way back through the mossy stones. they ought to be safe here. the hill offered commanding views, and the slopes were precipitous to the north and west and only slightly more gentle to the east. yet as the dusk deepened and darkness seeped into the hollows between the trees, jon's sense of foreboding grew. this is the haunted forest, he told himself. maybe there are ghosts here, the spirits of the first men. this was their place, once. stop acting the boy, he told himself. clambering atop the piled rocks, jon gazed off toward the setting sun. he could see the light shimmering like hammered gold off the surface of the milkwater as it curved away to the south. upriver the land was more rugged, the dense forest giving way to a series of bare stony hills that rose high and wild to the north and west. on the horizon stood the mountains like a great shadow, range on range of them receding into the blue- grey distance, their jagged peaks sheathed eternally in snow. even from afar they looked vast and cold and inhospitable. closer at hand, it was the trees that ruled. to south and east the wood went on as far as jon could see, a vast tangle of root and limb painted in a thousand shades of green, with here and there a patch of red where a weirwood shouldered through the pines and sentinels, or a blush of yellow where some broadleafs had begun to turn. when the wind blew, he could hear the creak and groan of branches older than he was. a thousand leaves fluttered, and for a moment the forest seemed a deep green sea, storm-tossed and heaving, eternal and unknowable. ghost was not like to be alone down there, he thought. anything could be moving under that sea, creeping toward the ringfort through the dark of the wood, concealed beneath those trees. anything. how would they ever know? he stood there for a long time, until the sun vanished behind the saw-toothed mountains and darkness began to creep through the forest. jon? samwell tarly called up. i thought it looked like you. are you well?  well enough. jon hopped down. how did you fare today? well. i fared well. truly. jon was not about to share his disquiet with his friend, not when samwell tarly was at last beginning to find his courage. the old bear means to wait here for qhorin halfhand and the men from the shadow tower. it seems a strong place, said sam. a ringfort of the first men. do you think there were battles fought here? no doubt. you'd best get a bird ready. mormont will want to send back word. i wish i could send them all. they hate being caged. you would too, if you could fly. if i could fly, i'd be back at castle black eating a pork pie, said sam. jon clapped him on the shoulder with his burned hand. they walked back through the camp together. cookfires were being lit all around them. overhead, the stars were coming out. the long red tail of mormont's torch burned as bright as the moon. jon heard the ravens before he saw them. some were calling his name. the birds were not shy when it came to making noise. they feel it too. i'd best see to the old bear, he said. he gets noisy when he isn't fed as well. he found mormont talking with thoren smallwood and half a dozen other officers. there you are, the old man said gruffly. bring us some hot wine, if you would. the night is chilly. yes, my lord. jon built a cookfire, claimed a small cask of mormont's favorite robust red from stores, and poured it into a kettle. he hung the kettle above the flames while he gathered the rest of his ingredients. the old bear was particular about his hot spiced wine. so much cinnamon and so much nutmeg and so much honey, not a drop more. raisins and nuts and dried berries, but no lemon, that was the rankest sort of southron heresy- which was queer, since he always took lemon in his morning beer. the drink must be hot to warm a man properly, the lord commander insisted, but the wine must never be allowed to come to a boil. jon kept a careful eye on the kettle. as he worked, he could hear the voices from inside the tent. jarman buckwell said, the easiest road up into the frostfangs is to follow the milkwater back to its source. yet if we go that path, rayder will know of our approach, certain as sunrise. the giant's stair might serve, said ser mallador locke, or the skirling pass, if it's clear. the wine was steaming. jon lifted the kettle off the fire, filled eight cups, and carried them into the tent. the old bear was peering at the crude map sam had drawn him that night back in craster's keep. he took a cup from jon's tray, tried a swallow of wine, and gave a brusque nod of approval. his raven hopped down his arm. com, it said. corn. corn.  ser ottyn wythers waved the wine away. i would not go into the mountains at all, he said in a thin, tired voice. the frostfangs have a cruel bite even in summer, and now... if we should be caught by a storm... i do not mean to risk the frostfangs unless i must, said mormont. wildlings can no more live on snow and stone than we can. they will emerge from the heights soon, and for a host of any size, the only route is along the milkwater. if so, we are strongly placed here. they cannot hope to slip by us. they may not wish to. they are thousands, and we will be three hundred when the halfhand reaches us. ser mallador accepted a cup from jon. if it comes to battle, we could not hope for better ground than here, declared mormont. we'll strengthen the defenses. pits and spikes, caltrops scattered on the slopes, every breach mended. jarman, i'll want your sharpest eyes as watchers. a ring of them, all around us and along the river, to warn of any approach. hide them up in trees. and we had best start bringing up water too, more than we need. we'll dig cisterns, it will keep the men occupied, and may prove needful later. my rangers- started thoren smallwood. your rangers will limit their ranging to this side of the river until the halfhand reaches us. after that, we'll see. i will not lose more of my men. mance rayder might be massing his host a day's ride from here, and we'd never know, smallwood complained. we know where the wildlings are massing, mormont came back. we had it from craster. i mislike the man, but i do not think he lied to us in this. as you say. smallwood took a sullen leave. the others finished their wine and followed, more courteously. shall i bring you supper, my lord? jon asked. corn, the raven cried. mormont did not answer at once. when he did he said only, did your wolf find game today? he's not back yet. we could do with fresh meat. mormont dug into a sack and offered his raven a handful of corn. you think i'm wrong to keep the rangers close?  that's not for me to say, my lord. it is if you're asked. if the rangers must stay in sight of the fist, i don't see how they can hope to find my uncle, jon admitted. they can't. the raven pecked at the kernels in the old bear's palm. two hundred men or ten thousand, the country is too vast. the corn gone, mormont turned his hand over. you would not give up the search? maester aemon thinks you clever. mormont moved the raven to his shoulder. the bird tilted its head to one side, little eyes a-glitter. the answer was there. is it... it seems to me that it might be easier for one man to find two hundred than for two hundred to find one. the raven gave a cackling scream, but the old bear smiled through the grey of his beard. this many men and horses leave a trail even aemon could follow. on this hill, our fires ought to be visible as far off as the foothills of the frostfangs. if ben stark is alive and free, he will come to us, i have no doubt. yes, said jon, but... what if. ...he's dead? mormont asked, not unkindly. jon nodded, reluctantly. dead, the raven said. dead. dead. he may come to us anyway, the old bear said. as othor did, and jafer flowers. i dread that as much as you, jon, but we must admit the possibility. dead, his raven cawed, ruffling its wings. its voice grew louder and more shrill. dead. mormont stroked the bird's black feathers, and stifled a sudden yawn with the back of his hand. i will forsake supper, i believe. rest will serve me better. wake me at first light. sleep well, my lord. jon gathered up the empty cups and stepped outside. he heard distant laughter, the plaintive sound of pipes. a great blaze was crackling in the center of the camp, and he could smell stew cooking. the old bear might not be hungry, but jon was. he drifted over toward the fire. dywen was holding forth, spoon in hand. i know this wood as well as any man alive, and i tell you, i wouldn't care to ride through it alone tonight. can't you smell it? grenn was staring at him with wide eyes, but dolorous edd said, all i smell is the shit of two hundred horses. and this stew. which has a similar aroma, now that i come to sniff it. i've got your similar aroma right here. hake patted his dirk. grumbling, he filled jon's bowl from the kettle. the stew was thick with barley, carrot, and onion, with here and there a ragged shred of salt beef, softened in the cooking. what is it you smell, dywen? asked grenn. the forester sucked on his spoon a moment. he had taken out his teeth. his face was leathery and wrinkled, his hands gnarled as old roots. seems to me like it smells... well... cold.  your head's as wooden as your teeth, hake told him. there's no smell to cold. there is, thought jon, remembering the night in the lord commander's chambers. it smells like death. suddenly he was not hungry anymore. he gave his stew to grenn, who looked in need of an extra supper to warm him against the night. the wind was blowing briskly when he left. by morning, frost would cover the ground, and the tent ropes would be stiff and frozen. a few fingers of spiced wine sloshed in the bottom of the kettle. jon fed fresh wood to the fire and put the kettle over the flames to reheat. he flexed his fingers as he waited, squeezing and spreading until the hand tingled. the first watch had taken up their stations around the perimeter of the camp. torches flickered all along the ringwall. the night was moonless, but a thousand stars shone overhead. a sound rose out of the darkness, faint and distant, but unmistakable: the howling of wolves. their voices rose and fell, a chilly song, and lonely. it made the hairs rise along the back of his neck. across the fire, a pair of red eyes regarded him from the shadows. the light of the flames made them glow. ghost, jon breathed, surprised. so you came inside after all, eh? the white wolf often hunted all night; he had not expected to see him again till daybreak. was the hunting so bad? he asked. here. to me, ghost. the direwo if circled the fire, sniffing jon, sniffing the wind, never still. it did not seem as if he were after meat right now. when the dead came walking, ghost knew he woke me, warned me. alarmed, he got to his feet, is something out there? ghost, do you have a scent? dywen said he smelled cold. the direwo if loped off, stopped, looked back. he wants me to follow. pulling up the hood of his cloak, jon walked away from the tents, away from the warmth of his fire, past the lines of shaggy little garrons. one of the horses whickered nervously when ghost padded by. jon soothed him with a word and paused to stroke his muzzle. he could hear the wind whistling through cracks in the rocks as they neared the ringwall. a voice called out a challenge. jon stepped into the torchlight. i need to fetch water for the lord commander. go on, then, the guard said. be quick about it. huddled beneath his black cloak, with his hood drawn up against the wind, the man never even looked to see if he had a bucket. jon slipped sideways between two sharpened stakes while ghost slid beneath them. a torch had been thrust down into a crevice, its flames flying pale orange banners when the gusts came. he snatched it up as he squeezed through the gap between the stones. ghost went racing down the hill. jon followed more slowly, the torch thrust out before him as he made his descent. the camp sounds faded behind him. the night was black, the slope steep, stony, and uneven. a moment's inattention would be a sure way to break an ankle... or his neck. what am i doing? he asked himself as he picked his way down. the trees stood beneath him, warriors armored in bark and leaf, deployed in their silent ranks awaiting the command to storm the hill. black, they seemed... it was only when his torchlight brushed against them that jon glimpsed a flash of green. faintly, he heard the sound of water flowing over rocks. ghost vanished in the underbrush. jon struggled after him, listening to the call of the brook, to the leaves sighing in the wind. branches clutched at his cloak, while overhead thick limbs twined together and shut out the stars. he found ghost lapping from the stream. ghost, he called, to me. now when the direwolf raised his head, his eyes glowed red and baleful, and water streamed down from his jaws like slaver. there was something fierce and terrible about him in that instant. and then he was off, bounding past jon, racing through the trees. ghost, no, stay, he shouted, but the wolf paid no heed. the lean white shape was swallowed by the dark, and jon had only two choices-to climb the hill again, alone, or to follow. he followed, angry, holding the torch out low so he could see the rocks that threatened to trip him with every step, the thick roots that seemed to grab as his feet, the holes where a man could twist an ankle. every few feet he called again for ghost, but the night wind was swirling amongst the trees and it drank the words. this is madness, he thought as he plunged deeper into the trees. he was about to turn back when he glimpsed a flash of white off ahead and to the right, back toward the hill. he jogged after it, cursing under his breath. a quarter way around the fist he chased the wolf before he lost him again. finally he stopped to catch his breath amidst the scrub, thorns, and tumbled rocks at the base of the hill. beyond the torchlight, the dark pressed close. a soft scrabbling noise made him turn. jon moved toward the sound, stepping carefully among boulders and thornbushes. behind a fallen tree, he came on ghost again. the direwolf was digging furiously, kicking up dirt. what have you found? jon lowered the torch, revealing a rounded mound of soft earth. a grave, he thought. but whose? he knelt, jammed the torch into the ground beside him. the soil was loose, sandy. jon pulled it out by the fistful. there were no stones, no roots. whatever was here had been put here recently. two feet down, his fingers touched cloth. he had been expecting a corpse, fearing a corpse, but this was something else. he pushed against the fabric and felt small, hard shapes beneath, unyielding. there was no smell, no sign of graveworms. ghost backed off and sat on his haunches, watching. jon brushed the loose soil away to reveal a rounded bundle perhaps two feet across. he jammed his fingers down around the edges and worked it loose. when he pulled it free, whatever was inside shifted and clinked. treasure, he thought, but the shapes were wrong to be coins, and the sound was wrong for metal. a length of frayed rope bound the bundle together. jon unsheathed his dagger and cut it, groped for the edges of the cloth, and pulled. the bundle turned, and its contents spilled out onto the ground, glittering dark and bright. he saw a dozen knives, leaf-shaped spearheads, numerous arrowheads. jon picked up a dagger blade, featherlight and shiny black, hiltless. torchlight ran along its edge, a thin orange line that spoke of razor sharpness. dragonglass. what the maesters call obsidian. had ghost uncovered some ancient cache of the children of the forest, buried here for thousands of years? the fist of the first men was an old place, only... beneath the dragonglass was an old warhorn, made from an auroch's horn and banded in bronze. jon shook the dirt from inside it, and a stream of arrowheads fell out. he let them fall, and pulled up a corner of the cloth the weapons had been wrapped in, rubbing it between his fingers. good wool, thick, a double weave, damp but not rotted. it could not have been long in the ground. and it was dark. he seized a handful and pulled it close to the torch. not dark. black. even before jon stood and shook it out, he knew what he had: the black cloak of a sworn brother of the night's watch. the call came drifting through the black of night. jon pushed himself onto an elbow, his hand reaching for longclaw by force of habit as the camp began to stir. the horn that wakes the sleepers, he thought. the long low note lingered at the edge of hearing. the sentries at the ringwall stood still in their footsteps, breath frosting and heads turned toward the west. as the sound of the horn faded, even the wind ceased to blow. men rolled from their blankets and reached for spears and swordbelts, moving quietly, listening. a horse whickered and was hushed. for a heartbeat it seemed as if the whole forest were holding its breath. the brothers of the night's watch waited for a second blast, praying they should not hear it, fearing that they would. when the silence had stretched unbearably long and the men knew at last that the horn would not wind again, they grinned at one another sheepishly, as if to deny that they had been anxious. jon snow fed a few sticks to the fire, buckled on his swordbelt, pulled on his boots, shook the dirt and dew from the cloak, and fastened it around his shoulders. the flames blazed up beside him, welcome heat beating against his face as he dressed. he could hear the lord commander moving inside the tent. after a moment mormont lifted the flap. one blast? on his shoulder, his raven sat fluffed and silent, looking miserable. one, my lord, jon agreed. brothers returning. mormont moved to the fire. the halfhand. and past time. he had grown more restive every day they waited; much longer and he would have been fit to whelp cubs. see that there's hot food for the men and fodder for the horses. i'll see qhorin at once. i'll bring him, my lord. the men from the shadow tower had been expected days ago. when they had not appeared, the brothers had begun to wonder. jon had heard gloomy mutterings around the cookfire, and not just from dolorous edd. ser ottyn wythers was for retreating to castle black as soon as possible. ser mallador locke would strike for the shadow tower, hoping to pick up qhorin' s trail and learn what had befallen him. and thoren smallwood wanted to push on into the mountains. mance rayder knows he must battle the watch, thoren had declared, but he will never look for us so far north. if we ride up the milkwater, we can take him unawares and cut his host to ribbons before he knows we are on him. the numbers would be greatly against us, ser ottyn had objected. craster said he was gathering a great host. many thousands. without qhorin, we are only two hundred. send two hundred wolves against ten thousand sheep, ser, and see what happens, said smallwood confidently. there are goats among these sheep, thoren, warned jarman buckwell. aye, and maybe a few lions. rattleshirt, harma the dogshead, alfyn crowkiller... i know them as well as you do, buckwell, thoren smallwood snapped back. and i mean to have their heads, every one. these are wildlings. no soldiers. a few hundred heroes, drunk most like, amidst a great horde of women, children, and thralls. we will sweep over them and send them howling back to their hovels. they had argued for many hours, and reached no agreement. the old bear was too stubborn to retreat, but neither would he rush headlong up the milkwater, seeking battle. in the end, nothing had been decided but to wait a few more days for the men from the shadow tower, and talk again if they did not appear. and now they had, which meant that the decision could be delayed no longer. jon was glad of that much, at least. if they must battle mance rayder, let it be soon. he found dolorous edd at the fire, complaining about how difficult it was for him to sleep when people insisted on blowing horns in the woods. jon gave him something new to complain about. together they woke hake, who received the lord commander's orders with a stream of curses, but got up all the same and soon had a dozen brothers cutting roots for a soup. sam came puffing up as jon crossed the camp. under the black hood his face was as pale and round as the moon. i heard the horn. has your uncle come back? it's only the men from the shadow tower. it was growing harder to cling to the hope of benjen stark's safe return. the cloak he had found beneath the fist could well have belonged to his uncle or one of his men, even the old bear admitted as much, though why they would have buried it there, wrapped around the cache of dragonglass, no one could say. sam, i have to go. at the ringwall, he found the guards sliding spikes from the half- frozen earth to make an opening. it was not long until the first of the brothers from the shadow tower began wending their way up the slope. all in leather and fur they were, with here and there a bit of steel or bronze; heavy beards covered hard lean faces, and made them look as shaggy as their garrons. jon was surprised to see some of them were riding two to a horse. when he looked more closely, it was plain that many of them were wounded. there has been trouble on the way. jon knew qhorin halfhand the instant he saw him, though they had never met. the big ranger was half a legend in the watch; a man of slow words and swift action, tall and straight as a spear, long-limbed and solemn. unlike his men, he was clean-shaven. his hair fell from beneath his helm in a heavy braid touched with hoarfrost, and the blacks he wore were so faded they might have been greys. only thumb and forefinger remained on the hand that held the reins; the other fingers had been sheared off catching a wildling's axe that would otherwise have split his skull. it was told that he had thrust his maimed fist into the face of the axeman so the blood spurted into his eyes, and slew him while he was blind. since that day, the wildlings beyond the wall had known no foe more implacable. jon hailed him. lord commander mormont would see you at once. i'll show you to his tent. qhorin swung down from his saddle. my men are hungry, and our horses require tending. they'll all be seen to. the ranger gave his horse into the care of one of his men and followed. you are jon snow. you have your father's look. did you know him, my lord? i am no lordling. only a brother of the night's watch. i knew lord eddard, yes. and his father before him. jon had to hurry his steps to keep up with qhorin's long strides. lord rickard died before i was born. he was a friend to the watch. qhorin glanced behind. it is said that a direwolf runs with you. ghost should be back by dawn. he hunts at night. they found dolorous edd frying a rasher of bacon and boiling a dozen eggs in a kettle over the old bear's cookfire. mormont sat in his woodand-leather camp chair. i had begun to fear for you. did you meet with trouble?  we met with alfyn crowkiller. mance had sent him to scout along the wall, and we chanced on him returning. qhorin removed his helm. alfyn will trouble the realm no longer, but some of his company escaped us. we hunted down as many as we could, but it may be that a few will win back to the mountains. and the cost? four brothers dead. a dozen wounded. a third as many as the foe. and we took captives. one died quickly from his wounds, but the other lived long enough to be questioned. best talk of this inside. jon will fetch you a horn of ale. or would you prefer hot spiced wine? boiled water will suffice. an egg and a bite of bacon. as you wish. mormont lifted the flap of the tent and qhorin halfhand stooped and stepped through. edd stood over the kettle swishing the eggs about with a spoon. i envy those eggs, he said. i could do with a bit of boiling about now. if the kettle were larger, i might jump in. though i would sooner it were wine than water. there are worse ways to die than warm and drunk. i knew a brother drowned himself in wine once. it was a poor vintage, though, and his corpse did not improve it. you drank the wine? it's an awful thing to find a brother dead. you'd have need of a drink as well, lord snow. edd stirred the kettle and added a pinch more nutmeg. restless, jon squatted by the fire and poked at it with a stick. he could hear the old bear's voice inside the tent, punctuated by the raven's squawks and qhorin halfhand's quieter tones, but he could not make out the words. alfyn crowkiller dead, that's good. he was one of the bloodiest of the wildling raiders, taking his name from the black brothers he'd slain. so why does qhorin sound so grave, after such a victory? jon had hoped that the arrival of men from the shadow tower would lift the spirits in the camp. only last night, he was coming back through the dark from a piss when he heard five or six men talking in low voices around the embers of a fire. when he heard chett muttering that it was past time they turned back, jon stopped to listen. it's an old man's folly, this ranging, he heard. we'll find nothing but our graves in them mountains. there's giants in the frostfangs, and wargs, and worse things, said lark the sisterman. i'll not be going there, i promise you. the old bear's not like to give you a choice. might be we won't give him one, said chett. just then one of the dogs had raised his head and growled, and he had to move away quickly, before he was seen. i was not meant to hear that, he thought. he considered taking the tale to mormont, but he could not bring himself to inform on his brothers, even brothers such as chett and the sisterman. it was just empty talk, he told himself. they are cold and afraid, we all are. it was hard waiting here, perched on the stony summit above the forest, wondering what the morrow might bring. the unseen enemy is always the most fearsome. jon slid his new dagger from its sheath and studied the flames as they played against the shiny black glass. he had fashioned the wooden hilt himself, and wound hempen twine around it to make a grip. ugly, but it served. dolorous edd opined that glass knives were about as useful as nipples on a knight's breastplate, but jon was not so certain. the dragonglass blade was sharper than steel, albeit far more brittle. it must have been buried for a reason. he had made a dagger for grenn as well, and another for the lord commander. the warhorn he had given to sam. on closer examination the horn had proved cracked, and even after he had cleaned all the dirt out, jon had been unable to get any sound from it. the rim was chipped as well, but sam liked old things, even worthless old things. make a drinking horn out of it, jon told him, and every time you take a drink you'll remember how you ranged beyond the wall, all the way to the fist of the first men. he gave sam a spearhead and a dozen arrowheads as well, and passed the rest out among his other friends for luck. the old bear had seemed pleased by the dagger, but he preferred a steel knife at his belt, jon had noticed. mormont could offer no answers as to who might have buried the cloak or what it might mean. perhaps qhorin will know the halfhand had ventured deeper into the wild than any other living man. you want to serve, or shall i? jon sheathed the dagger. i'll do it. he wanted to hear what they were saying. edd cut three thick slices off a stale round of oat bread, stacked them on a wooden platter, covered them with bacon and bacon drippings, and filled a bowl with hard-cooked eggs. jon took the bowl in one hand and the platter in the other and backed into the lord commander's tent, qhorin was seated cross-legged on the floor, his spine as straight as a spear. candlelight flickered against the hard flat planes of his cheeks as he spoke. ...rattleshirt, the weeping man, and every other chief great and small, he was saying. they have wargs as well, and mammoths, and more strength than we would have dreamed. or so he claimed. i will not swear as to the truth of it. ebben believes the man was telling us tales to make his life last a little longer. true or false, the wall must be warned, the old bear said as jon placed the platter between them. and the king. which king? all of them. the true and the false alike. if they would claim the realm, let them defend it. the halfhand helped himself to an egg and cracked it on the edge of the bowl. these kings will do what they will, he said, peeling away the shell. likely it will be little enough. the best hope is winterfell. the starks must rally the north. yes. to be sure. the old bear unrolled a map, frowned at it, tossed it aside, opened another. he was pondering where the hammer would fall, jon could see it. the watch had once manned seventeen castles along the hundred leagues of the wall, but they had been abandoned one by one as the brotherhood dwindled. only three were now garrisoned, a fact that mance rayder knew as well as they did. ser alliser thorne will bring back fresh levies from king's landing, we can hope. if we man greyguard from the shadow tower and the long barrow from eastwatch... greyguard has largely collapsed. stonedoor would serve better, if the men could be found. icemark and deep lake as well, mayhaps. with daily patrols along the battlements between. patrols, aye. twice a day, if we can. the wall itself is a formidable obstacle. undefended, it cannot stop them, yet it will delay them. the larger the host, the longer they'll require. from the emptiness they've left behind, they must mean to bring their women with them. their young as well, and beasts... have you ever seen a goat climb a ladder? a rope? they will need to build a stair, or a great ramp... it will take a moon's turn at the least, perhaps longer. mance will know his best chance is to pass beneath the wall. through a gate, or... a breach. mormont's head came up sharply. what? they do not plan to climb the wall nor to burrow beneath it, my lord. they plan to break it. the wall is seven hundred feet high, and so thick at the base that it would take a hundred men a year to cut through it with picks and axes. even so. mormont plucked at his beard, frowning. how? how else? sorcery. qhorin bit the egg in half. why else would mance choose to gather his strength in the frostfangs? bleak and hard they are, and a long weary march from the wall. i'd hoped he chose the mountains to hide his muster from the eyes of my rangers. perhaps, said qhorin, finishing the egg, but there is more, i think. he is seeking something in the high cold places. he is searching for something he needs. something? mormont's raven lifted its head and screamed. the sound was sharp as a knife in the closeness of the tent. some power. what it is, our captive could not say. he was questioned perhaps too sharply, and died with much unsaid. i doubt he knew in any case. jon could hear the wind outside. it made a high thin sound as it shivered through the stones of the ringwall and tugged at the tent ropes. mormont rubbed his mouth thoughtfully. some power, he repeated. i must know. then you must send scouts into the mountains. i am loath to risk more men. we can only die. why else do we don these black cloaks, but to die in defense of the realm? i would send fifteen men, in three parties of five. one to probe the milkwater, one the skirling pass, one to climb the giant's stair. jarman buckwell, thoren smallwood, and myself to command. to learn what waits in those mountains. waits, the raven cried. waits. lord commander mormont sighed deep in his chest. i see no other choice, he conceded, but if you do not return... someone will come down out of the frostfangs, my lord, the ranger said. if us, all well and good. if not, it will be mance rayder, and you sit square in his path. he cannot march south and leave you behind, to follow and harry his rear. he must attack. this is a strong place. not that strong, said mormont. belike we shall all die, then. our dying will buy time for our brothers on the wall. time to garrison the empty castles and freeze shut the gates, time to summon lords and kings to their aid, time to hone their axes and repair their catapults. our lives will be coin well spent. die, the raven muttered, pacing along mormont's shoulders. die, die, die, die. the old bear sat slumped and silent, as if the burden of speech had grown too heavy for him to bear. but at last he said, may the gods forgive me. choose your men. qhorin halfhand turned his head. his eyes met jon's, and held them for a long moment. very well. i choose jon snow. mormont blinked. he is hardly more than a boy. and my steward besides. not even a ranger. tollett can care for you as well, my lord. qhorin lifted his maimed, two-fingered hand. the old gods are still strong beyond the wall. the gods of the first men... and the starks. mormont looked at jon. what is your will in this? to go, he said at once. the old man smiled sadly. i thought it might be. dawn had broken when jon stepped from the tent beside qhorin halfhand. the wind swirled around them, stirring their black cloaks and sending a scatter of red cinders flying from the fire. we ride at noon, the ranger told him. best find that wolf of yours. they could see the fire in the night, glimmering against the side of the mountain like a fallen star. it burned redder than the other stars, and did not twinkle, though sometimes it flared up bright and sometimes dwindled down to no more than a distant spark, dull and faint. haifa mile ahead and two thousand feet up, jon judged, and perfectly placed to see anything moving in the pass below watchers in the skirling pass, wondered the oldest among them. in the spring of his youth, he had been squire to a king, so the black brothers still called him squire dalbridge. what is it mance rayder fears, i wonder?  if he knew they'd lit a fire, he'd flay the poor bastards, said ebben, a squat bald man muscled like a bag of rocks. fire is life up here, said qhorin halfhand, but it can be death as well. by his command, they'd risked no open flames since entering the mountains. they ate cold salt beef, hard bread, and harder cheese, and slept clothed and huddled beneath a pile of cloaks and furs, grateful for each other's warmth. it made jon remember cold nights long ago at winterfell, when he'd shared a bed with his brothers. these men were brothers too, though the bed they shared was stone and earth. they'll have a horn, said stonesnake. the halfhand said, a horn they must not blow. that's a long cruel climb by night, ebben said as he eyed the distant spark through a cleft in the rocks that sheltered them. the sky was cloudless, the jagged mountains rising black on black until the very top, where their cold crowns of snow and ice shone palely in the moonlight. and a longer fall, said qhorin halfhand. two men, i think. there are like to be two up there, sharing the watch. me. the ranger they called stonesnake had already shown that he was the best climber among them. it would have to be him. and me, said jon snow. qhorin halfhand looked at him. jon could hear the wind keening as it shivered through the high pass above them, one of the garrons whickered and pawed at the thin stony soil of the hollow where they had taken shelter. the wolf will remain with us, qhorin said. white fur is seen too easily by moonlight. he turned to stonesnake. when it's done, throw down a burning brand. we'll come when we see it fall. no better time to start than now, said stonesnake. they each took a long coil of rope. stonesnake carried a bag of iron spikes as well, and a small hammer with its head wrapped in thick felt. their garrons they left behind, along with their helms, mail, and ghost. jon knelt and let the direwolf nuzzle him before they set off. stay, he commanded. i'll be back for you. stonesnake took the lead. he was a short wiry man, near fifty and grey of beard but stronger than he seemed, and he had the best night eyes of anyone jon had ever known. he needed them tonight. by day the mountains were blue-grey, brushed with frost, but once the sun vanished behind the jagged peaks they turned black. now the rising moon had linmed them in white and silver. the black brothers moved through black shadows amidst black rocks, working their way up a steep, twisting trail as their breath frosted in the black air. jon felt almost naked without his mail, but he did not miss its weight. this was hard going, and slow. to hurry here was to risk a broken ankle or worse. stonesnake seemed to know where to put his feet as if by instinct, but jon needed to be more careful on the broken, uneven ground. the skirling pass was really a series of passes, a long twisting course that went up around a succession of icy wind-carved peaks and down through hidden valleys that seldom saw the sun. apart from his companions, jon had glimpsed no living man since they'd left the wood behind and begun to make their way upward. the frostfangs were as cruel as any place the gods had made, and as inimical to men. the wind cut like a knife up here, and shrilled in the night like a mother mourning her slain children. what few trees they saw were stunted, grotesque things growing sideways out of cracks and fissures. tumbled shelves of rock often overhung the trail, fringed with hanging icicles that looked like long white teeth from a distance. yet even so, jon snow was not sorry he had come. there were wonders here as well. he had seen sunlight flashing on icy thin waterfalls as they plunged over the lips of sheer stone cliffs, and a mountain meadow full of autumn wildflowers, blue coldsnaps and bright scarlet frostfires and stands of piper's grass in russet and gold. he had peered down ravines so deep and black they seemed certain to end in some hell, and he had ridden his garron over a wind-eaten bridge of natural stone with nothing but sky to either side. eagles nested in the heights and came down to hunt the valleys, circling effortlessly on great blue-grey wings that seemed almost part of the sky. once he had watched a shadowcat stalk a ram, flowing down the mountainside like liquid smoke until it was ready to pounce. now it is our turn to pounce. he wished he could move as sure and silent as that shadowcat, and kill as quickly. longclaw was sheathed across his back, but he might not have room to use it. he carried dirk and dagger for closer work. they will have weapons as well, and i am not armored. he wondered who would prove the shadowcat by night's end, and who the ram. for a long way they stayed to the trail, following its twists and turns as it snaked along the side of the mountain, upward, ever upward. sometimes the mountain folded back on itself and they lost sight of the fire, but soon or late it would always reappear. the path stonesnake chose would never have served for the horses. in places jon had to put his back to the cold stone and shuffle along sideways like a crab, inch by inch. even where the track widened it was treacherous; there were cracks big enough to swallow a man's leg, rubble to stumble over, hollow places where the water pooled by day and froze hard by night. one step and then another, jon told himself. one step and then another, and i will not fall. he had not shaved since leaving the fist of the first men, and the hair on his lip was soon stiff with frost. two hours into the climb, the wind kicked up so fiercely that it was all he could do to hunch down and cling to the rock, praying he would not be blown off the mountain. one step and then another, he resumed when the gale subsided. one step and then another, and i will not fall. soon they were high enough so that looking down was best not considered. there was nothing below but yawning blackness, nothing above but moon and stars. the mountain is your mother, stonesnake had told him during an easier climb a few days past. cling to her, press your face up against her teats, and she won't drop you. jon had made a joke of it, saying how he'd always wondered who his mother was, but never thought to find her in the frostfangs. it did not seem nearly so amusing now. one step and then another, he thought, clinging tight. the narrow track ended abruptly where a massive shoulder of black granite thrust out from the side of the mountain. after the bright moonlight, its shadow was so black that it felt like stepping into a cave. straight up here, the ranger said in a quiet voice. we want to get above them. he peeled off his gloves, tucked them through his belt, tied one end of his rope around his waist, the other end around jon. follow me when the rope grows taut. the ranger did not wait for an answer but started at once, moving upward with fingers and feet, faster than jon would have believed. the long rope unwound slowly. jon watched him closely, making note of how he went, and where he found each handhold, and when the last loop of hemp uncoiled, he took off his own gloves and followed, much more slowly. stonesnake had passed the rope around the smooth spike of rock he was waiting on, but as soon as jon reached him he shook it loose and was off again. this time there was no convenient cleft when he reached the end of their tether, so he took out his felt-headed hammer and drove a spike deep into a crack in the stone with a series of gentle taps. soft as the sounds were, they echoed off the stone so loudly that jon winced with every blow, certain that the wildlings must hear them too. when the spike was secure, stonesnake secured the rope to it, and jon started after him. suck on the mountain's teat, he reminded himself. don't look down. keep your weight above your feet. don't look down. look at the rock in front of you. there's a good handhold, yes. don't look down. i can catch a breath on that ledge there, all i need to do is reach it. never look down. once his foot slipped as he put his weight on it and his heart stopped in his chest, but the gods were good and he did not fall. he could feel the cold seeping off the rock into his fingers, but he dared not don his gloves; gloves would slip, no matter how tight they seemed, cloth and fur moving between skin and stone, and up here that could kill him. his burned hand was stiffening up on him, and soon it began to ache. then he ripped open his thumbnail somehow, and after that he left smears of blood wherever he put his hand. he hoped he still had all his fingers by the end of the climb. up they went, and up, and up, black shadows creeping across the moonlit wall of rock. anyone down on the floor of the pass could have seen them easily, but the mountain hid them from the view of the wildlings by their fire. they were close now, though. jon could sense it. even so, he did not think of the foes who were waiting for him, all unknowing, but of his brother at winterfell. bran used to love to climb. i wish i had a tenth part of his courage. the wall was broken two-thirds of the way up by a crooked fissure of icy stone. stonesnake reached down a hand to help him up. he had donned his gloves again, so jon did the same. the ranger moved his head to the left, and the two of them crawled along the shelf three hundred yards or more, until they could see the dull orange glow beyond the lip of the cliff. the wildlings had built their watchfire in a shallow depression above the narrowest part of the pass, with a sheer drop below and rock behind to shelter them from the worst of the wind. that same windbreak allowed the black brothers to crawl within a few feet of them, creeping along on their bellies until they were looking down on the men they must kill. one was asleep, curled up tight and buried beneath a great mound of skins. jon could see nothing of him but his hair, bright red in the firelight. the second sat close to the flames, feeding them twigs and branches and complaining of the wind in a querulous tone. the third watched the pass, though there was little to see, only a vast bowl of darkness ringed by the snowy shoulders of the mountains. it was the watcher who wore the horn. three. for a moment jon was uncertain. there was only supposed to be two. one was asleep, though. and whether there was two or three or twenty, he still must do what he had come to do. stonesnake touched his arm, pointed at the wildling with the horn. jon nodded toward the one by the fire. it felt queer, picking a man to kill. half the days of his life had been spent with sword and shield, training for this moment. did robb feel this way before his first battle? he wondered, but there was no time to ponder the question. stonesnake moved as fast as his namesake, leaping down on the wildlings in a rain of pebbles. jon slid longclaw from its sheath and followed. it all seemed to happen in a heartbeat. afterward jon could admire the courage of the wildling who reached first for his horn instead of his blade. he got it to his lips, but before he could sound it stonesnake knocked the horn aside with a swipe of his shortsword. jon's man leapt to his feet, thrusting at his face with a burning brand. he could feel the heat of the flames as he flinched back. out of the corner of his eye, he saw the sleeper stirring, and knew he must finish his man quick. when the brand swung again, he bulled into it, swinging the bastard sword with both hands. the valyrian steel sheared through leather, fur, wool, and flesh, but when the wildling fell he twisted, ripping the sword from jon's grasp. on the ground the sleeper sat up beneath his furs. jon slid his dirk free, grabbing the man by the hair and jamming the point of the knife up under his chin as he reached for his-no, her- his hand froze. a girl. a watcher, said stonesnake. a wildling. finish her. jon could see fear and fire in her eyes. blood ran down her white throat from where the point of his dirk had pricked her. one thrust and it's done, he told himself. he was so close he could smell onion on her breath. she is no older than i am. something about her made him think of arya, though they looked nothing at all alike. will you yield? he asked, giving the dirk a half turn. and if she doesn't? i yield. her words steamed in the cold air. you're our captive, then. he pulled the dirk away from the soft skin of her throat. qhorin said nothing of taking captives, said stonesnake. he never said not to. jon let go his grip on the girl's hair, and she scuttled backward, away from them. she's a spearwife. stonesnake gestured at the long-hafted axe that lay beside her sleeping furs. she was reaching for that when you grabbed her. give her half a chance and she'll bury it between your eyes. i won't give her half a chance. jon kicked the axe well out of the girl's reach. do you have a name? ygritte. her hand rubbed at her throat and came away bloody. she stared at the wetness. sheathing his dirk, he wrenched longclaw free from the body of the man he'd killed. you are my captive, ygritte. i gave you my name. i'm jon snow. she flinched. an evil name. a bastard name, he said. my father was lord eddard stark of winterfell. the girl watched him warily, but stonesnake gave a mordant chuckle. it's the captive supposed to tell things, remember? the ranger thrust a long branch into the fire. not that she will. i've known wildlings to bite off their own tongues before they'd answer a question. when the end of the branch was blazing merrily, he took two steps and flung it out over the pass. it fell through the night spinning until it was lost to sight. you ought to burn them you killed, said ygritte. need a bigger fire for that, and big fires burn bright. stonesnake turned, his eyes scanning the black distance for any spark of light. are there more wildlings close by, is that it? burn them, the girl repeated stubbornly, or it might be you'll need them swords again. jon remembered dead othor and his cold black hands. maybe we should do as she says. there are other ways. stonesnake knelt beside the man he'd slain, stripped him of cloak and boots and belt and vest, then hoisted the body over one thin shoulder and carried it to the edge. he grunted as he tossed it over. a moment later they heard a wet, heavy smack well below them. by then the ranger had the second body down to the skin and was dragging it by the arms. jon took the feet and together they flung the dead man out in the blackness of the night. ygritte watched and said nothing. she was older than he'd thought at first, jon realized; maybe as old as twenty, but short for her age, bandylegged, with a round face, small hands, and a pug nose. her shaggy mop of red hair stuck out in all directions. she looked plump as she crouched there, but most of that was layers of fur and wool and leather. underneath all that she could be as skinny as arya. were you sent to watch for us? jon asked her. you, and others. stonesnake warmed his hands over the fire. what waits beyond the pass? the free folk. how many? hundreds and thousands. more than you ever saw, crow. she smiled. her teeth were crooked, but very white. she doesn't know how many. why come here? ygritte fell silent. what's in the frostfangs that your king could want? you can't stay here, there's no food. she turned her face away from him. do you mean to march on the wall? when? she stared at the flames as if she could not hear him. do you know anything of my uncle, benjen stark? ygritte ignored him. stonesnake laughed, if she spits out her tongue, don't say i didn't warn you. a low rumbling growl echoed off the rock. shadowcat, jon knew at once. as he rose he heard another, closer at hand. he pulled his sword and turned, listening. they won't trouble us, ygritte said. it's the dead they've come for. cats can smell blood six miles off. they'll stay near the bodies till they've eaten every last stringy shred o' meat, and cracked the bones for the marrow. jon could hear the sounds of their feeding echoing off the rocks. it gave him an uneasy feeling. the warmth of the fire made him realize how bone-tired he was, but he dared not sleep. he had taken a captive, and it was on him to guard her. were they your kin? he asked her quietly. the two we killed? no more than you are. me? he frowned. what do you mean? you said you were the bastard o' winterfell. i am. who was your mother? some woman. most of them are. someone had said that to him once. he did not remember who. she smiled again, a flash of white teeth. and she never sung you the song o' the winter rose? i never knew my mother. or any such song. bael the bard made it, said ygritte. he was king-beyond- the wall a long time back. all the free folk know his songs, but might be you don't sing them in the south. winterfell's not in the south, jon objected. yes it is. everything below the wall's south to us. he had never thought of it that way. i suppose it's all in where you're standing. aye, ygritte agreed. it always is. tell me, jon urged her. it would be hours before qhorin came up, and a story would help keep him awake. i want to hear this tale of yours. might be you won't like it much. i'll hear it all the same. brave black crow, she mocked. well, long before he was king over the free folk, bael was a great raider. stonesnake gave a snort. a murderer, robber, and raper, is what you mean. that's all in where you're standing too, ygritte said. the stark in winterfell wanted bael's head, but never could take him, and the taste o' failure galled him. one day in his bitterness he called bael a craven who preyed only on the weak. when word o' that got back, bael vowed to teach the lord a lesson. so he scaled the wall, skipped down the kingsroad, and walked into winterfell one winter's night with harp in hand, naming himself sygerrik of skagos. sygerrik means 'deceiver' in the old tongue, that the first men spoke, and the giants still speak. north or south, singers always find a ready welcome, so bael ate at lord stark's own table, and played for the lord in his high seat until half the night was gone. the old songs he played, and new ones he'd made himself, and he played and sang so well that when he was done, the lord offered to let him name his own reward. 'all i ask is a flower' bael answered, 'the fairest flower that blooms in the gardens o' winterfell' now as it happened the winter roses had only then come into bloom, and no flower is so rare nor precious. so the stark sent to his glass gardens and commanded that the most beautiful o' the winter roses be plucked for the singer's payment. and so it was done. but when morning come, the singer had vanished... and so had lord brandon's maiden daughter. her bed they found empty, but for the pale blue rose that bael had left on the pillow where her head had lain. jon had never heard this tale before. which brandon was this supposed to be? brandon the builder lived in the age of heroes, thousands of years before bael. there was brandon the burner and his father brandon the shipwright, but- this was brandon the daughterless, ygritte said sharply. would you hear the tale, or no? he scowled. go on. lord brandon had no other children. at his behest, the black crows flew forth from their castles in the hundreds, but nowhere could they find any sign o' bael or this maid. for most a year they searched, till the lord lost heart and took to his bed, and it seemed as though the line o' starks was at its end. but one night as he lay waiting to die, lord brandon heard a child's cry. he followed the sound and found his daughter back in her bedchamber, asleep with a babe at her breast. bael had brought her back? no. they had been in winterfell all the time, hiding with the dead beneath the castle. the maid loved bael so dearly she bore him a son, the song says... though if truth be told, all the maids love bael in them songs he wrote. be that as it may, what's certain is that bael left the child in payment for the rose he'd plucked unasked, and that the boy grew to be the next lord stark. so there it is-you have bael's blood in you, same as me. it never happened, jon said. she shrugged. might be it did, might be it didn't. it is a good song, though. my mother used to sing it to me. she was a woman too, jon snow. like yours. she rubbed her throat where his dirk had cut her. the song ends when they find the babe, but there is a darker end to the story. thirty years later, when bael was king-beyond-the-wall and led the free folk south, it was young lord stark who met him at the frozen ford... and killed him, for bael would not harm his own son when they met sword to sword. so the son slew the father instead, said jon. aye, she said, but the gods hate kinslayers, even when they kill unknowing. when lord stark returned from the battle and his mother saw bael's head upon his spear, she threw herself from a tower in her grief. her son did not long outlive her. one o' his lords peeled the skin off him and wore him for a cloak. your bael was a liar, he told her, certain now. no, ygritte said, but a bard's truth is different than yours or mine. anyway, you asked for the story, so i told it. she turned away from him, closed her eyes, and seemed to sleep. dawn and qhorin halfhand arrived together. the black stones had turned to grey and the eastern sky had gone indigo when stonesnake spied the rangers below, wending their way upward. jon woke his captive and held her by the arm as they descended to meet them. thankfully, there was another way off the mountain to the north and west, along paths much gentler than the one that had brought them up here. they were waiting in a narrow defile when their brothers appeared, leading their garrons. ghost raced ahead at first scent of them. jon squatted to let the direwo if close his jaws around his wrist, tugging his hand back and forth. it was a game they played. but when he glanced up, he saw ygritte watching with eyes as wide and white as hen's eggs. qhorin halfhand made no comment when he saw the prisoner. there were three, stonesnake told him. no more than that. we passed two, ebben said, or what the cats had left of them. he eyed the girl sourly, suspicion plain on his face. she yielded, jon felt compelled to say. qhorin' s face was impassive. do you know who i am? qhorin halfhand. the girl looked half a child beside him, but she faced him boldly. tell me true. if i fell into the hands of your people and yielded myself, what would it win me? a slower death than elsewise. the big ranger looked to jon. we have no food to feed her, nor can we spare a man to watch her. the way before us is perilous enough, lad, said squire dalbridge. one shout when we need silence, and every man of us is doomed. ebben drew his dagger. a steel kiss will keep her quiet. jon's throat was raw. he looked at them all helplessly. she yielded herself to me. then you must do what needs be done, qhorin halfhand said. you are the blood of winterfell and a man of the night's watch. he looked at the others. come, brothers. leave him to it. it will go easier for him if we do not watch. and he led them up the steep twisting trail toward the pale pink glow of the sun where it broke through a mountain cleft, and before very long only jon and ghost remained with the wildling girl. he thought ygritte might try to run, but she only stood there, waiting, looking at him. you never killed a woman before, did you? when he shook his head, she said, we die the same as men. but you don't need to do it. mance would take you, i know he would. there's secret ways. them crows would never catch us. i'm as much a crow as they are, jon said. she nodded, resigned. will you burn me, after? i can't. the smoke might be seen. that's so. she shrugged. well, there's worse places to end up than the belly of a shadowcat. he pulled longclaw over a shoulder. aren't you afraid? last night i was, she admitted. but now the sun's up. she pushed her hair aside to bare her neck, and knelt before him. strike hard and true, crow, or i'll come back and haunt you. longclaw was not so long or heavy a sword as his father's ice, but it was valyrian steel all the same. he touched the edge of the blade to mark where the blow must fall, and ygritte shivered. that's cold, she said. go on, be quick about it. he raised longclaw over his head, both hands tight around the grip. one cut, with all my weight behind it. he could give her a quick clean death, at least. he was his father's son. wasn't he? wasn't he? do it, she urged him after a moment. bastard. do it. i can't stay brave forever. when the blow did not fall she turned her head to look at him. jon lowered his sword. go, he muttered. ygritte stared. now, he said, before my wits return. go. she went. it was dark in the skirling pass. the great stone flanks of the mountains hid the sun for most of the day, so they rode in shadow, the breath of man and horse steaming in the cold air. icy fingers of water trickled down from the snowpack above into small frozen pools that cracked and broke beneath the hooves of their garrons. sometimes they would see a few weeds struggling from some crack in the rock or a splotch of pale lichen, but there was no grass, and they were above the trees now. the track was as steep as it was narrow, wending its way ever upward. where the pass was so constricted that rangers had to go single file, squire dalbridge would take the lead, scanning the heights as he went, his longbow ever close to hand. it was said he had the keenest eyes in the night's watch. ghost padded restlessly by jon's side. from time to time he would stop and turn, his ears pricked, as if he heard something behind them. jon did not think the shadowcats would attack living men, not unless they were starving, but he loosened longclaw in its scabbard even so. a wind-carved arch of grey stone marked the highest point of the pass. here the way broadened as it began its long descent toward the valley of the milkwater. qhorin decreed that they would rest here until the shadows began to grow again. shadows are friends to men in black, he said. jon saw the sense of that. it would be pleasant to ride in the light for a time, to let the bright mountain sun soak through their cloaks and chase the chill from their bones, but they dared not. where there were three watchers there might be others, waiting to sound the alarm. stonesnake curled up under his ragged fur cloak and was asleep almost at once. jon shared his salt beef with ghost while ebben and squire dalbridge fed the horses. qhorin halfhand sat with his back to a rock, honing the edge of his longsword with long slow strokes. jon watched the ranger for a few moments, then summoned his courage and went to him. my lord, he said, you never asked me how it went. with the girl. i am no lord, jon snow. qhorin slid the stone smoothly along the steel with his two-fingered hand. she told me mance would take me, if i ran with her. she told you true. she even claimed we were kin. she told me a story... ...of bael the bard and the rose of winterfell. so stonesnake told me. it happens i know the song. mance would sing it of old, when he came back from a ranging. he had a passion for wildling music. aye, and for their women as well. you knew him? we all knew him. his voice was sad. they were friends as well as brothers, jon realized, and now they are sworn foes. why did he desert? for a wench, some say. for a crown, others would have it. qhorin tested the edge of his sword with the ball of his thumb. he liked women, mance did, and he was not a man whose knees bent easily, that's true. but it was more than that. he loved the wild better than the wall. it was in his blood. he was wildling born, taken as a child when some raiders were put to the sword. when he left the shadow tower he was only going home again. was he a good ranger? he was the best of us, said the halfhand, and the worst as well. only fools like thoren smallwood despise the wildlings. they are as brave as we are, jon. as strong, as quick, as clever. but they have no discipline. they name themselves the free folk, and each one thinks himself as good as a king and wiser than a maester. mance was the same. he never learned how to obey. no more than me, said jon quietly. qhorin's shrewd grey eyes seemed to see right through him. so you let her go? he did not sound the least surprised. you know? now. tell me why you spared her. it was hard to put into words. my father never used a headsman. he said he owed it to men he killed to look into their eyes and hear their last words. and when i looked into ygritte's eyes, i... jon stared down at his hands helplessly. i know she was an enemy, but there was no evil in her. no more than in the other two. it was their lives or ours jon said. if they had seen us, if they had sounded that horn... the wildlings would hunt us down and slay us, true enough. stonesnake has the horn now, though, and we took ygritte's knife and axe. she's behind us, afoot, unarmed... and not like to be a threat, qhorin agreed. if i had needed her dead, i would have left her with ebben, or done the thing myself. then why did you command it of me? i did not command it. i told you to do what needed to be done, and left you to decide what that would be. qhorin stood and slid his longsword back into its scabbard. when i want a mountain scaled, i call on stonesnake. should i need to put an arrow through the eye of some foe across a windy battlefield, i summon squire dalbridge. ebben can make any man give up his secrets. to lead men you must know them, jon snow. i know more of you now than i did this morning. and if i had slain her? asked jon. she would be dead, and i would know you better than i had before. but enough talk. you ought be sleeping. we have leagues to go, and dangers to face. you will need your strength. jon did not think sleep would come easily, but he knew the halfhand was right. he found a place out of the wind, beneath an overhang of rock, and took off his cloak to use it for a blanket. ghost, he called. here. to me. he always slept better with the great white wolf beside him; there was comfort in the smell of him, and welcome warmth in that shaggy pale fur. this time, though, ghost did no more than look at him. then he turned away and padded around the garrons, and quick as that he was gone. he wants to hunt, jon thought. perhaps there were goats in these mountains. the shadowcats must live on something. just don't try and bring down a 'cat, he muttered. even for a direwolf, that would be dangerous. he tugged his cloak over him and stretched out beneath the rock. when he closed his eyes, he dreamed of direwolves. there were five of them when there should have been six, and they were scattered, each apart from the others. he felt a deep ache of emptiness, a sense of incompleteness. the forest was vast and cold, and they were so small, so lost. his brothers were out there somewhere, and his sister, but he had lost their scent. he sat on his haunches and lifted his head to the darkening sky, and his cry echoed through the forest, a long lonely mournful sound. as it died away, he pricked up his ears, listening for an answer, but the only sound was the sigh of blowing snow. jon? the call came from behind him, softer than a whisper, but strong too. can a shout be silent? he turned his head, searching for his brother, for a glimpse of a lean grey shape moving beneath the trees, but there was nothing, only... a weirwood. it seemed to sprout from solid rock, its pale roots twisting up from a myriad of fissures and hairline cracks. the tree was slender compared to other weirwoods he had seen, no more than a sapling, yet it was growing as he watched, its limbs thickening as they reached for the sky. wary, he circled the smooth white trunk until he came to the face. red eyes looked at him. fierce eyes they were, yet glad to see him. the weirwood had his brother's face. had his brother always had three eyes? not always, came the silent shout. not before the crow. he sniffed at the bark, smelled wolf and tree and boy, but behind that there were other scents, the rich brown smell of warm earth and the hard grey smell of stone and something else, something terrible. death, he knew. he was smelling death. he cringed back, his hair bristling, and bared his fangs. don't be afraid, i like it in the dark. no one can see you, but you can see them. but first you have to open your eyes. see? like this. and the tree reached down and touched him. and suddenly he was back in the mountains, his paws sunk deep in a drift of snow as he stood upon the edge of a great precipice. before him the skirling pass opened up into airy emptiness, and a long vee-shaped valley lay spread beneath him like a quilt, awash in all the colors of an autumn afternoon. a vast blue- white wall plugged one end of the vale, squeezing between the mountains as if it had shouldered them aside, and for a moment he thought he had dreamed himself back to castle black. then he realized he was looking at a river of ice several thousand feet high. under that glittering cold cliff was a great lake, its deep cobalt waters reflecting the snowcapped peaks that ringed it. there were men down in the valley, he saw now; many men, thousands, a huge host. some were tearing great holes in the half- frozen ground, while others trained for war. he watched as a swarming mass of riders charged a shield wall, astride horses no larger than ants. the sound of their mock battle was a rustling of steel leaves, drifting faintly on the wind. their encampment had no plan to it; he saw no ditches, no sharpened stakes, no neat rows of horse lines. everywhere crude earthen shelters and hide tents sprouted haphazardly, like a pox on the face of the earth. he spied untidy mounds of hay, smelled goats and sheep, horses and pigs, dogs in great profusion. tendrils of dark smoke rose from a thousand cookfires. this is no army, no more than it is a town. this is a whole people come together. across the long lake, one of the mounds moved. he watched it more closely and saw that it was not dirt at all, but alive, a shaggy lumbering beast with a snake for a nose and tusks larger than those of the greatest boar that had ever lived. and the thing riding it was huge as well, and his shape was wrong, too thick in the leg and hips to be a man. then a sudden gust of cold made his fur stand up, and the air thrilled to the sound of wings. as he lifted his eyes to the ice- white mountain heights above, a shadow plummeted out of the sky. a shrill scream split the air. he glimpsed blue-grey pinions spread wide, shutting out the sun... ghost! jon shouted, sitting up. he could still feel the talons, the pain. ghost, to me! ebben appeared, grabbed him, shook him. quiet! you mean to bring the wildlings down on us? what's wrong with you, boy? a dream, said jon feebly. i was ghost, i was on the edge of the mountain looking down on a frozen river, and something attacked me. a bird... an eagle, i think... squire dalbridge smiled. it's always pretty women in my dreams. would that i dreamed more often. qhorin came up beside him. a frozen river, you say? the milkwater flows from a great lake at the foot of a glacier, stonesnake put in. there was a tree with my brother's face. the wildlings... there were thousands, more than i ever knew existed. and giants riding mammoths. from the way the light had shifted, jon judged that he had been asleep for four or five hours. his head ached, and the back of his neck where the talons had burned through him. but that was in the dream. tell me all that you remember, from first to last, said qhorin halfhand. jon was confused. it was only a dream. a wolf dream, the halfhand said. craster told the lord commander that the wildlings were gathering at the source of the milkwater. that may be why you dreamed it. or it may be that you saw what waits for us, a few hours farther on. tell me. it made him feel half a fool to talk of such things to qhorin and the other rangers, but he did as he was commanded. none of the black brothers laughed at him, however. by the time he was done, even squire dalbridge was no longer smiling. skinchanger? said ebben grimly, looking at the halfhand. does he mean the eagle- jon wondered. or me? skinchangers and wargs belonged in old nan's stories, not in the world he had lived in all his life. yet here, in this strange bleak wilderness of rock and ice, it was not hard to believe. the cold winds are rising. mormont feared as much. benjen stark felt it as well. dead men walk and the trees have eyes again. why should we balk at wargs and giants? does this mean my dreams are true as well? asked squire dalbridge. lord snow can keep his mammoths, i want my women. man and boy i've served the watch, and ranged as far as any, said ebben. i've seen the bones of giants, and heard many a queer tale, but no more. i want to see them with my own eyes. be careful they don't see you, ebben, stonesnake said. ghost did not reappear as they set out again. the shadows covered the floor of the pass by then, and the sun was sinking fast toward the jagged twin peaks of the huge mountain the rangers named forktop. if the dream was true... even the thought scared him. could the eagle have hurt ghost, or knocked him off the precipice? and what about the weirwood with his brother's face, that smelled of death and darkness? the last ray of sun vanished behind the peaks of forktop. twilight filled the skirling pass. it seemed to grow colder almost at once. they were no longer climbing. in fact, the ground had begun to descend, though as yet not sharply. it was littered with cracks and broken boulders and tumbled heaps of rock. it will be dark soon, and still no sight of ghost. it was tearing jon apart, yet he dare not shout for the direwolf as he would have liked. other things might be listening as well. qhorin, squire dalbridge called softly. there. look. the eagle was perched on a spine of rock far above them, outlined against the darkening sky. we've seen other eagles, jon thought. that need not be the one i dreamed of. even so, ebben would have loosed a shaft at it, but the squire stopped him. the bird's well out ofbowshot. i don't like it watching us. the squire shrugged. nor me, but you won't stop it. only waste a good arrow. qhorin sat in his saddle, studying the eagle for a long time. we press on, he finally said. the rangers resumed their descent. ghost, jon wanted to shout, where are you? he was about to follow qhorin and the others when he glimpsed a flash of white between two boulders. a patch of old snow, he thought, until he saw it stir. he was off his horse at once. as he went to his knees, ghost lifted his head. his neck glistened wetly, but he made no sound when jon peeled off a glove and touched him. the talons had torn a bloody path through fur and flesh, but the bird had not been able to snap his neck. qhorin halfhand was standing over him. how bad? as if in answer, ghost struggled to his feet. the wolf is strong, the ranger said. ebben, water. stonesnake, your skin of wine. hold him still, jon. together they washed the caked blood from the direwolf s fur. ghost struggled and bared his teeth when qhorm poured the wine into the ragged red gashes the eagle had left him, but jon wrapped his arms around him and murmured soothing words, and soon enough the wolf quieted. by the time they'd ripped a strip from jon's cloak to wrap the wounds, full dark had settled. only a dusting of stars set the black of sky apart from the black of stone. do we press on? stonesnake wanted to know. qhorin went to his garron. back, not on. back? jon was taken by surprise. eagles have sharper eyes than men. we are seen. so now we run. the halfhand wound a long black scarf around his face and swung up into the saddle. the other rangers exchanged a look, but no man thought to argue. one by one they mounted and turned their mounts toward home. ghost, come, he called, and the direwo if followed, a pale shadow moving through the night. all night they rode, feeling their way up the twisting pass and through the stretches of broken ground. the wind grew stronger. sometimes it was so dark that they dismounted and went ahead on foot, each man leading his garron. once ebben suggested that some torches might serve them well, but qhorin said, no fire, and that was the end of that. they reached the stone bridge at the summit and began to descend again. off in the darkness a shadowcat screamed in fury, its voice bouncing off the rocks so it seemed as though a dozen other 'cats were giving answer. once jon thought he saw a pair of glowing eyes on a ledge overhead, as big as harvest moons. in the black hour before dawn, they stopped to let the horses drink and fed them each a handful of oats and a twist or two of hay. we are not far from the place the wildlings died, said qhorin. from there, one man could hold a hundred. the right man. he looked at squire dalbridge. the squire bowed his head. leave me as many arrows as you can spare, brothers. he stroked his longbow. and see my garron has an apple when you're home. he's earned it, poor beastie. he's staying to die, jon realized. qhorin clasped the squire's forearm with a gloved hand. if the eagle flies down for a look at you... ...he'll sprout some new feathers. the last jon saw of squire dalbridge was his back as he clambered up the narrow path to the heights. when dawn broke, jon looked up into a cloudless sky and saw a speck moving through the blue. ebben saw it too, and cursed, but qhorin told him to be quiet. listen. jon held his breath, and heard it. far away and behind them, the call of a hunting horn echoed against the mountains. and now they come, said qhorin. when qhorin halfhand told him to find some brush for a fire, jon knew their end was near. it will be good to feel warm again, if only for a little while, he told himself while he hacked bare branches from the trunk of a dead tree. ghost sat on his haunches watching, silent as ever. will he howl for me when i'm dead, as bran's wolf howled when he fell? jon wondered. will shaggydog howl, far off in winterfell, and grey wind and nymeria, wherever they might be? the moon was rising behind one mountain and the sun sinking behind another as jon struck sparks from flint and dagger, until finally a wisp of smoke appeared. qhorin came and stood over him as the first flame rose up flickering from the shavings of bark and dead dry pine needles. as shy as a maid on her wedding night, the big ranger said in a soft voice, and near as fair. sometimes a man forgets how pretty a fire can be. he was not a man you'd expect to speak of maids and wedding nights. so far as jon knew, qhorin had spent his whole life in the watch. did he ever love a maid or have a wedding? he could not ask. instead he fanned the fire. when the blaze was all acrackle, he peeled off his stiff gloves to warm his hands, and sighed, wondering if ever a kiss had felt as good. the warmth spread through his fingers like melting butter. the halfhand eased himself to the ground and sat cross-legged by the fire, the flickering light playing across the hard planes of his face. only the two of them remained of the five rangers who had fled the skirling pass, back into the blue-grey wilderness of the frostfangs. at first jon had nursed the hope that squire dalbridge would keep the wildlings bottled up in the pass. but when they'd heard the call of a far off horn every man of them knew the squire had fallen. later they spied the eagle soaring through the dusk on great blue-grey wings and stonesnake unslung his bow, but the bird flew out of range before he could so much as string it. ebben spat and muttered darkly of wargs and skinchangers. they glimpsed the eagle twice more the day after, and heard the hunting horn behind them echoing against the mountains. each time it seemed a little louder, a little closer. when night fell, the halfhand told ebben to take the squire's garron as well as his own, and ride east for mormont with all haste, back the way they had come. the rest of them would draw off the pursuit. send jon, ebben had urged. he can ride as fast as me. jon has a different part to play. heishalfaboystill. no, said qhorin, he is a man of the night's watch. when the moon rose, ebben parted from them. stonesnake went east with him a short way, then doubled back to obscure their tracks, and the three who remained set off toward the southwest. after that the days and nights blurred one into the other. they slept in their saddles and stopped only long enough to feed and water the garrons, then mounted up again. over bare rock they rode, through gloomy pine forests and drifts of old snow, over icy ridges and across shallow rivers that had no names. sometimes qhorin or stonesnake would loop back to sweep away their tracks, but it was a futile gesture. they were watched. at every dawn and every dusk they saw the eagle soaring between the peaks, no more than a speck in the vastness of the sky. they were scaling a low ridge between two snowcapped peaks when a shadowcat came snarling from its lair, not ten yards away. the beast was gaunt and half-starved, but the sight of it sent stonesnake 's mare into a panic; she reared and ran, and before the ranger could get her back under control she had stumbled on the steep slope and broken a leg. ghost ate well that day, and qhorin insisted that the rangers mix some of the garron's blood with their oats, to give them strength. the taste of that foul porridge almost choked jon, but he forced it down. they each cut a dozen strips of raw stringy meat from the carcass to chew on as they rode, and left the rest for the shadowcats. there was no question of riding double. stonesnake offered to lay in wait for the pursuit and surprise them when they came. perhaps he could take a few of them with him down to hell. qhorin refused, if any man in the night's watch can make it through the frostfangs alone and afoot, it is you, brother. you can go over mountains that a horse must go around. make for the fist. tell mormont what jon saw, and how. tell him that the old powers are waking, that he faces giants and wargs and worse. tell him that the trees have eyes again. he has no chance, jon thought when he watched stonesnake vanish over a snow-covered ridge, a tiny black bug crawling across a rippling expanse of white. after that, every night seemed colder than the night before, and more lonely. ghost was not always with them, but he was never far either. even when they were apart, jon sensed his nearness. he was glad for that. the halfhand was not the most companionable of men. qhorin' s long grey braid swung slowly with the motion of his horse. often they would ride for hours without a word spoken, the only sounds the soft scrape of horseshoes on stone and the keening of the wind, which blew endlessly through the heights. when he slept, he did not dream; not of wolves, nor his brothers, nor anything. even dreams cannot live up here, he told himself. is your sword sharp, jon snow? asked qhorin halfhand across the flickering fire. my sword is valyrian steel. the old bear gave it to me. do you remember the words of your vow? yes. they were not words a man was like to forget. once said, they could never be unsaid. they changed your life forever. say them again with me, jon snow. if you like. their voices blended as one beneath the rising moon, while ghost listened and the mountains themselves bore witness. night gathers, and now my watch begins. it shall not end until my death. i shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children. i shall wear no crowns and win no glory. i shall live and die at my post. i am the sword in the darkness. i am the watcher on the walls. i am the fire that burns against the cold, the light that brings the dawn, the horn that wakes the sleepers, the shield that guards the realms of men. i pledge my life and honor to the night's watch, for this night and all the nights to come. when they were done, there was no sound but the faint crackle of the flames and a distant sigh of wind. jon opened and closed his burnt fingers, holding tight to the words in his mind, praying that his father's gods would give him the strength to die bravely when his hour came. it would not be long now. the garrons were near the end of their strength. qhorin's mount would not last another day, jon suspected. the flames were burning low by then, the warmth fading. the fire will soon go out, qhorin said, but if the wall should ever fall, all the fires will go out. there was nothing jon could say to that. he nodded. we may escape them yet, the ranger said. or not. i'm not afraid to die. it was only half a lie. it may not be so easy as that, jon. he did not understand. what do you mean? if we are taken, you must yield. yield? he blinked in disbelief. the wildlings did not make captives of the men they called the crows. they killed them, except for... they only spare oathbreakers. those who join them, like mance rayder. and you. no. he shook his head. never. i won't. you will. i command it of you. command it? but...  our honor means no more than our lives, so long as the realm is safe. are you a man of the night's watch? yes, but- there is no but, jon snow. you are, or you are not. jon sat up straight. i am. then hear me. if we are taken, you will go over to them, as the wildling girl you captured once urged you. they may demand that you cut your cloak to ribbons, that you swear them an oath on your father's grave, that you curse your brothers and your lord commander. you must not balk, whatever is asked of you. do as they bid you... but in your heart, remember who and what you are. ride with them, eat with them, fight with them, for as long as it takes. and watch. for what? jon asked. would that i knew, said qhorin. your wolf saw their diggings in the valley of the milkwater. what did they seek, in such a bleak and distant place? did they find it? that is what you must learn, before you return to lord mormont and your brothers. that is the duty i lay on you, jon snow. i'll do as you say, jon said reluctantly, but... you will tell them, won't you? the old bear, at least? you'll tell him that i never broke my oath. qhorin halfhand gazed at him across the fire, his eyes lost in pools of shadow. when i see him next. i swear it. he gestured at the fire. more wood. i want it bright and hot. jon went to cut more branches, snapping each one in two before tossing it into the flames. the tree had been dead a long time, but it seemed to live again in the fire, as fiery dancers woke within each stick of wood to whirl and spin in their glowing gowns of yellow, red, and orange. enough, qhorin said abruptly. now we ride. ride? it was dark beyond the fire, and the night was cold. ride where?  back. qhorin mounted his weary garron one more time. the fire will draw them past, i hope. come, brother. jon pulled on his gloves again and raised his hood. even the horses seemed reluctant to leave the fire. the sun was long gone, and only the cold silver shine of the half-moon remained to light their way over the treacherous ground that lay behind them. he did not know what qhorin had in mind, but perhaps it was a chance. he hoped so. i do not want to play the oathbreaker, even for good reason. they went cautiously, moving as silent as man and horse could move, retracing their steps until they reached the mouth of a narrow defile where an icy little stream emerged from between two mountains. jon remembered the place. they had watered the horses here before the sun went down. the water's icing up, qhorin observed as he turned aside, else we'd ride in the streambed. but if we break the ice, they are like to see. keep close to the cliffs. there's a crook a half mile on that will hide us. he rode into the defile. jon gave one last wistful look to their distant fire, and followed. the farther in they went, the closer the cliffs pressed to either side. they followed the moonlit ribbon of stream back toward its source. icicles bearded its stony banks, but jon could still hear the sound of rushing water beneath the thin hard crust. a great jumble of fallen rock blocked their way partway up, where a section of the cliff face had fallen, but the surefooted little garrons were able to pick their way through. beyond, the walls pinched in sharply, and the stream led them to the foot of a tall twisting waterfall. the air was full of mist, like the breath of some vast cold beast. the tumbling waters shone silver in the moonlight. jon looked about in dismay. there is no way out. he and qhorin might be able to climb the cliffs, but not with the horses. he did not think they would last long afoot. quickly now, the halfhand commanded. the big man on the small horse rode over the ice- slick stones, right into the curtain of water, and vanished. when he did not reappear, jon put his heels into his horse and went after. his garron did his best to shy away. the falling water slapped at them with frozen fists, and the shock of the cold seemed to stop jon's breath. then he was through; drenched and shivering, but through. the cleft in the rock was barely large enough for man and horse to pass, but beyond, the walls opened up and the floor turned to soft sand. jon could feel the spray freezing in his beard. ghost burst through the waterfall in an angry rush, shook droplets from his fur, sniffed at the darkness suspiciously, then lifted a leg against one rocky wall. qhorin had already dismounted. jon did the same. you knew this place was here. when i was no older than you, i heard a brother tell how he followed a shadowcat through these falls. he unsaddled his horse, removed her bit and bridle, and ran his fingers through her shaggy mane. there is a way through the heart of the mountain. come dawn, if they have not found us, we will press on. the first watch is mine, brother. qhorin seated himself on the sand, his back to a wall, no more than a vague black shadow in the gloom of the cave. over the rush of falling waters, jon heard a soft sound of steel on leather that could only mean that the halfhand had drawn his sword. he took off his wet cloak, but it was too cold and damp here to strip down any further. ghost stretched out beside him and licked his glove before curling up to sleep. jon was grateful for his warmth. he wondered if the fire was still burning outside, or if it had gone out by now. if the wall should ever fall, all the fires will go out. the moon shone through the curtain of falling water to lay a shimmering pale stripe across the sand, but after a time that too faded and went dark. sleep came at last, and with it nightmares. he dreamed of burning castles and dead men rising unquiet from their graves. it was still dark when qhorin woke him. while the halfhand slept, jon sat with his back to the cave wall, listening to the water and waiting for the dawn. at break of day, they each chewed a half-frozen strip of horsemeat, then saddled their garrons once again, and fastened their black cloaks around their shoulders. during his watch the halfhand had made a halfdozen torches, soaking bundles of dry moss with the oil he carried in his saddlebag. he lit the first one now and led the way down into the dark, holding the pale flame up before him. jon followed with the horses. the stony path twisted and turned, first down, then up, then down more steeply. in spots it grew so narrow it was hard to convince the garrons they could squeeze through. by the time we come out we will have lost them, he told himself as they went. not even an eagle can see through solid stone. we will have lost them, and we will ride hard for the fist, and tell the old bear all we know. but when they emerged back into the light long hours later, the eagle was waiting for them, perched on a dead tree a hundred feet up the slope. ghost went bounding up the rocks after it, but the bird flapped its wings and took to the air. qhorin's mouth tightened as he followed its flight with his eyes. here is as good a place as any to make a stand, he declared. the mouth of the cave shelters us from above, and they cannot get behind us without passing through the mountain. is your sword sharp, jon snow? yes, he said. we'll feed the horses. they've served us bravely, poor beasts. jon gave his garron the last of the oats and stroked his shaggy mane while ghost prowled restlessly amongst the rocks. he pulled his gloves on tighter and flexed his burnt fingers. i am the shield that guards the realms of men. a hunting horn echoed through the mountains, and a moment later jon heard the baying of hounds. they will be with us soon, announced qhorin. keep your wolf in hand. ghost, to me, jon called. the direwolf returned reluctantly to his side, tail held stiffly behind him. the wildlings came boiling over a ridge not half a mile away. their hounds ran before them, snarling grey-brown beasts with more than a little wolf in their blood. ghost bared his teeth, his fur bristling. easy, jon murmured. stay. overhead he heard a rustle of wings. the eagle landed on an outcrop of rock and screamed in triumph. the hunters approached warily, perhaps fearing arrows. jon counted fourteen, with eight dogs. their large round shields were made of skins stretched over woven wicker and painted with skulls. about half of them hid their faces behind crude helms of wood and boiled leather. on either wing, archers notched shafts to the strings of small wood-and-horn bows, but did not loose. the rest seemed to be armed with spears and mauls. one had a chipped stone axe. they wore only what bits of armor they had looted from dead rangers or stolen during raids. wildlings did not mine or smelt, and there were few smiths and fewer forges north of the wall. qhorin drew his longsword. the tale of how he had taught himself to fight with his left hand after losing half of his right was part of his legend; it was said that he handled a blade better now than he ever had before. jon stood shoulder to shoulder with the big ranger and pulled longclaw from its sheath. despite the chill in the air, sweat stung his eyes. ten yards below the cave mouth the hunters halted. their leader came on alone, riding a beast that seemed more goat than horse, from the surefooted way it climbed the uneven slope. as man and mount grew nearer jon could hear them clattering; both were armored in bones. cow bones, sheep bones, the bones of goats and aurochs and elk, the great bones of the hairy mammoths... and human bones as well. rattleshirt, qhorin called down, icy-polite. to crows i be the lord o' bones. the rider's helm was made from the broken skull of a giant, and all up and down his arms bearclaws had been sewn to his boiled leather. qhorin snorted. i see no lord. only a dog dressed in chickenbones, who rattles when he rides. the wildling hissed in anger, and his mount reared. he did rattle, jon could hear it; the bones were strung together loosely, so they clacked and clattered when he moved. it's your bones i'll be rattling soon, halfhand. i'll boil the flesh off you and make a byrnie from your ribs. i'll carve your teeth to cast me runes, and eat me oaten porridge from your skull. if you want my bones, come get them. that, rattleshirt seemed reluctant to do. his numbers meant little in the close confines of the rocks where the black brothers had taken their stand; to winkle them out of the cave the wildlings would need to come up two at a time. but another of his company edged a horse up beside him, one of the fighting women called spearwives. we are four-and-ten to two, crows, and eight dogs to your wolf, she called. fight or run, you are ours.  show them, commanded rattleshirt. the woman reached into a bloodstained sack and drew out a trophy. ebben had been bald as an egg, so she dangled the head by an ear. he died brave, she said. but he died, said rattleshirt, same like you. he freed his battleaxe, brandishing it above his head. good steel it was, with a wicked gleam to both blades; ebben was never a man to neglect his weapons. the other wildlings crowded forward beside him, yelling taunts. a few chose jon for their mockery. is that your wolf, boy? a skinny youth called, unlimbering a stone flail. he'll be my cloak before the sun is down. on the other side of the line, another spearwife opened her ragged furs to show jon a heavy white breast. does the baby want his momma? come, have a suck o' this, boy. the dogs were barking too. they would shame us into folly. qhorin gave jon a long look. remember your orders. belike we need to flush the crows, rattleshirt bellowed over the clamor. feather them! no! the word burst from jon's lips before the bowmen could loose. he took two quick steps forward. we yield! they warned me bastard blood was craven, he heard qhorin halfhand say coldly behind him. i see it is so. run to your new masters, coward. face reddening, jon descended the slope to where rattleshirt sat his horse. the wildling stared at him through the eyeholes of his helm, and said, the free folk have no need of cravens. he is no craven. one of the archers pulled off her sewn sheepskin helm and shook out a head of shaggy red hair. this is the bastard o' winterfell, who spared me. let him live. jon met ygritte's eyes, and had no words. let him die, insisted the lord of bones. the black crow is a tricksy bird. i trust him not. on a rock above them, the eagle flapped its wings and split the air with a scream of fury. the bird hates you, jon snow, said ygritte. and well he might. he was a man, before you killed him. i did not know, said jon truthfully, trying to remember the face of the man he had slain in the pass. you told me mance would take me. and he will, ygritte said. mance is not here, said rattleshirt. ragwyle, gut him. the big spearwife narrowed her eyes and said, if the crow would join the free folk, let him show us his prowess and prove the truth of him. i'll do whatever you ask. the words came hard, but jon said them. rattleshirt's bone armor clattered loudly as he laughed. then kill the halfhand, bastard. as if he could, said qhorin. turn, snow, and die. and then qhorin' s sword was coming at him and somehow longclaw leapt upward to block. the force of impact almost knocked the bastard blade from jon's hand, and sent him staggering backward. you must not balk, whatever is asked of you. he shifted to a two-hand grip, quick enough to deliver a stroke of his own, but the big ranger brushed it aside with contemptuous ease. back and forth they went, black cloaks swirling, the youth's quickness against the savage strength of qhorin's left-hand cuts. the halfhand's longsword seemed to be everywhere at once, raining down from one side and then the other, driving him where he would, keeping him off balance. already he could feel his arms growing numb. even when ghost's teeth closed savagely around the ranger's calf, somehow qhorin kept his feet. but in that instant, as he twisted, the opening was there. jon planted and pivoted. the ranger was leaning away, and for an instant it seemed that jon's slash had not touched him. then a string of red tears appeared across the big man's throat, bright as a ruby necklace, and the blood gushed out of him, and qhorin halfhand fell. ghost's muzzle was dripping red, but only the point of the bastard blade was stained, the last half inch. jon pulled the direwolf away and knelt with one arm around him. the light was already fading in qhorin' s eyes, ...sharp, he said, lifting his maimed fingers. then his hand fell, and he was gone. he knew, he thought numbly. he knew what they would ask of me. he thought of samwell tarly then, of grenn and dolorous edd, of pyp and toad back at castle black. had he lost them all, as he had lost bran and rickon and robb? who was he now? what was he? get him up. rough hands dragged him to his feet. jon did not resist. do you have a name? ygritte answered for him. his name is jon snow. he is eddard stark's blood, of winterfell. ragwyle laughed. who would have thought it? qhorin halfhand slain by some lordling's byblow. gut him. that was rattleshirt, still ahorse. the eagle flew to him and perched atop his bony helm, screeching. he yielded, ygritte reminded them. aye, and slew his brother, said a short homely man in a rust-eaten iron halfhelm. rattleshirt rode closer, bones clattering. the wolf did his work for him. it were foully done. the halfhand 's death was mine. we all saw how eager you were to take it, mocked ragwyle. he is a warg, said the lord of bones, and a crow. i like him not. a warg he may be, ygritte said, but that has never frightened us. others shouted agreement. behind the eyeholes of his yellowed skull rattleshirt's stare was malignant, but he yielded grudgingly. these are a free folk indeed, thought jon. they burned qhorin halfhand where he'd fallen, on a pyre made of pine needles, brush, and broken branches. some of the wood was still green, and it burned slow and smoky, sending a black plume up into the bright hard blue of the sky. afterward rattleshirt claimed some charred bones, while the others threw dice for the ranger's gear. ygritte won his cloak. will we return by the skirling pass? jon asked her. he did not know if he could face those heights again, or if his garron could survive a second crossing. no, she said. there's nothing behind us. the look she gave him was sad. by now mance is well down the milkwater, marching on your wall. 