the morning of king joffrey's name day dawned bright and windy, with the long tail of the great comet visible through the high scuttling clouds. sansa was watching it from her tower window when ser arys oakheart arrived to escort her down to the tourney grounds. what do you think it means? she asked him. glory to your betrothed, ser arys answered at once. see how it flames across the sky today on his grace's name day, as if the gods themselves had raised a banner in his honor. the smallfolk have named it king joffrey's comet. doubtless that was what they told joffrey; sansa was not so sure. i've heard servants calling it the dragon's tail. king joffrey sits where aegon the dragon once sat, in the castle built by his son, ser arys said. he is the dragon's heir-and crimson is the color of house lannister, another sign. this comet is sent to herald joffrey's ascent to the throne, i have no doubt. it means that he will triumph over his enemies. is it true? she wondered. would the gods be so cruel? her mother was one of joffrey's enemies now, her brother robb another. her father had died by the king's command. must robb and her lady mother die next? the comet was red, but joffrey was baratheon as much as lannister, and their sigil was a black stag on a golden field. shouldn't the gods have sent joff a golden comet? sansa closed the shutters and turned sharply away from the window. you look very lovely today, my lady, ser arys said. thank you, ser. knowing that joffrey would require her to attend the tourney in his honor, sansa had taken special care with her face and clothes. she wore a gown of pale purple silk and a moonstone hair net that had been a gift from joffrey. the gown had long sleeves to hide the bruises on her arms. those were joffrey's gifts as well. when they told him that robb had been proclaimed king in the north, his rage had been a fearsome thing, and he had sent ser boros to beat her. shall we go? ser arys offered his arm and she let him lead her from her chamber. if she must have one of the kingsguard dogging her steps, sansa preferred that it be him. ser boros was short-tempered, ser meryn cold, and ser mandon's strange dead eyes made her uneasy, while ser preston treated her like a lackwit child. arys oakheart was courteous, and would talk to her cordially. once he even objected when joffrey commanded him to hit her. he did hit her in the end, but not hard as ser meryn or ser boros might have, and at least he had argued. the others obeyed without question... except for the hound, but joff never asked the hound to punish her. he used the other five for that. ser arys had light brown hair and a face that was not unpleasant to look upon. today he made quite the dashing figure, with his white silk cloak fastened at the shoulder by a golden leaf, and a spreading oak tree worked upon the breast of his tunic in shining gold thread. who do you think will win the day's honors? sansa asked as they descended the steps arm in arm. i will, ser arys answered, smiling. yet i fear the triumph will have no savor. this will be a small field, and poor. no more than two score will enter the lists, including squires and freeriders. there is small honor in unhorsing green boys. the last tourney had been different, sansa reflected. king robert had staged it in her father's honor. high lords and fabled champions had come from all over the realm to compete, and the whole city had turned out to watch. she remembered the splendor of it: the field of pavilions along the river with a knight's shield hung before each door, the long rows of silken pennants waving in the wind, the gleam of sunlight on bright steel and gilded spurs. the days had rung to the sounds of trumpets and pounding hooves, and the nights had been full of feasts and song. those had been the most magical days of her life, but they seemed a memory from another age now. robert baratheon was dead, and her father as well, beheaded for a traitor on the steps of the great sept of baelor. now there were three kings in the land, and war raged beyond the trident while the city filled with desperate men. small wonder that they had to hold joff s tournament behind the thick stone walls of the red keep. will the queen attend, do you think? sansa always felt safer when cersei was there to restrain her son. i fear not, my lady. the council is meeting, some urgent business. ser arys dropped his voice. lord tywin has gone to ground at harrenhal instead of bringing his army to the city as the queen commanded. her grace is furious. he fell silent as a column of lannister guardsmen marched past, in crimson cloaks and lion-crested helms. ser arys was fond of gossip, but only when he was certain that no one was listening. the carpenters had erected a gallery and lists in the outer bailey. it was a poor thing indeed, and the meager throng that had gathered to watch filled but half the seats. most of the spectators were guardsmen in the gold cloaks of the city watch or the crimson of house lannister; of lords and ladies there were but a paltry few, the handful that remained at court. grey- faced lord gyles rosby was coughing into a square of pink silk. lady tanda. was bracketed by her daughters, placid dull lollys and acid-tongued falyse. ebon-skinned jalabhar xho was an exile who had no other refuge, lady ermesande a babe seated on her wet nurse's lap. the talk was she would soon be wed to one of the queen's cousins, so the lannisters might claim her lands. the king was shaded beneath a crimson canopy, one leg thrown negligently over the carved wooden arm of his chair. princess myrcella and prince tommen sat behind him. in the back of the royal box, sandor clegane stood at guard, his hands resting on his swordbelt. the white cloak of the kingsguard was draped over his broad shoulders and fastened with a jeweled brooch, the snowy cloth looking somehow unnatural against his brown roughspun tunic and studded leather jerkin. lady sansa, the hound announced curtly when he saw her. his voice was as rough as the sound of a saw on wood. the burn scars on his face and throat made one side of his mouth twitch when he spoke. princess myrcella nodded a shy greeting at the sound of sansa's name, but plump little prince tommen jumped up eagerly. sansa, did you hear? i'm to ride in the tourney today. mother said i could. tommen was all of eight. he reminded her of her own little brother, bran. they were of an age. bran was back at winterfell, a cripple, yet safe. sansa would have given anything to be with him. i fear for the life of your foeman, she told tommen solemnly. his foeman will be stuffed with straw, jo ff said as he rose. the king was clad in a gilded breastplate with a roaring lion engraved upon its chest, as if he expected the war to engulf them at any moment. he was thirteen today, and tall for his age, with the green eyes and golden hair of the lannisters. your grace, she said, dipping in a curtsy. ser arys bowed. pray pardon me, your grace. i must equip myself for the lists. joffrey waved a curt dismissal while he studied sansa from head to heels. i'm pleased you wore my stones. so the king had decided to play the gallant today. sansa was relieved. i thank you for them... and for your tender words. i pray you a lucky name day, your grace. sit, jo ff commanded, gesturing her to the empty seat beside his own. have you heard? the beggar king is dead. who? for a moment sansa was afraid he meant robb. viserys. the last son of mad king aerys. he's been going about the free cities since before i was born, calling himself a king. well, mother says the dothraki finally crowned him. with molten gold. he laughed. that's funny, don't you think? the dragon was their sigil. it's almost as good as if some wolf killed your traitor brother. maybe i'll feed him to wolves after i've caught him. did i tell you, i intend to challenge him to single combat? i should like to see that, your grace. more than you know sansa kept her tone cool and polite, yet even so joffrey' s eyes narrowed as he tried to decide whether she was mocking him. will you enter the lists today? she asked quickly. the king frowned. my lady mother said it was not fitting, since the tourney is in my honor. otherwise i would have been champion. isn't that so, dog? the hound's mouth twitched. against this lot? why not? he had been the champion in her father's tourney, sansa remembered. will you joust today, my lord? she asked him. clegane's voice was thick with contempt. wouldn't be worth the bother of arming myself. this is a tournament of gnats. the king laughed. my dog has a fierce bark. perhaps i should command him to fight the day's champion. to the death. joffrey was fond of making men fight to the death. you'd be one knight the poorer. the hound had never taken a knight's vows. his brother was a knight, and he hated his brother. a blare of trumpets sounded. the king settled back in his seat and took sansa' s hand. once that would have set her heart to pounding, but that was before he had answered her plea for mercy by presenting her with her father's head. his touch filled her with revulsion now, but she knew better than to show it. she made herself sit very still. ser meryn trant of the kingsguard, a herald called. ser meryn entered from the west side of the yard, clad in gleaming white plate chased with gold and mounted on a milk-white charger with a flowing grey mane. his cloak streamed behind him like a field of snow. he carried a twelve-foot lance. ser hobber of house redwyne, of the arbor, the herald sang. ser hobber trotted in from the east, riding a black stallion caparisoned in burgundy and blue. his lance was striped in the same colors, and his shield bore the grape cluster sigil of his house. the redwyne twins were the queen's unwilling guests, even as sansa was. she wondered whose notion it had been for them to ride in joffrey's tourney. not their own, she thought. at a signal from the master of revels, the combatants couched their lances and put their spurs to their mounts. there were shouts from the watching guardsmen and the lords and ladies in the gallery. the knights came together in the center of the yard with a great shock of wood and steel. the white lance and the striped one exploded in splinters within a second of each other. hobber redwyne reeled at the impact, yet somehow managed to keep his seat. wheeling their horses about at the far end of the lists, the knights tossed down their broken lances and accepted replacements from the squires. ser horas redwyne, ser hobber's twin, shouted encouragement to his brother. but on their second pass ser meryn swung the point of his lance to strike ser hobber in the chest, driving him from the saddle to crash resoundingly to the earth. ser horas cursed and ran out to help his battered brother from the field. poorly ridden, declared king joffrey. ser balon swann, of stonehelm in the red watch, came the herald's cry. wide white wings ornamented ser balon's greathelm, and black and white swans fought on his shield. morros of house slynt, heir to lord janos of harrenhal. look at that upiumped oaf, jo ff hooted, loud enough for half the yard to hear. morros, a mere squire and a new-made squire at that, was having difficulty managing lance and shield. the lance was a knight's weapon, sansa knew, the slynts lowborn. lord janos had been no more than commander of the city watch before joffrey had raised him to hanrenhal and the council. i hope he falls and shames himself, she thought bitterly. i hope ser balon kills him. when joffrey proclaimed her father's death, it had been janos slynt who seized lord eddard's severed head by the hair and raised it on high for king and crowd to behold, while sansa wept and screamed. morros wore a checkered black- and-go id cloak over black armor inlaid with golden scrollwork. on his shield was the bloody spear his father had chosen as the sigil of their new-made house. but he did not seem to know what to do with the shield as he urged his horse forward, and ser balon's point struck the blazon square. morros dropped his lance, fought for balance, and lost. one foot caught in a stirrup as he fell, and the runaway charger dragged the youth to the end of the lists, head bouncing against the ground. jo ff hooted derision. sansa was appalled, wondering if the gods had heard her vengeful prayer. but when they disentangled morros slynt from his horse, they found him bloodied but alive. tommen, we picked the wrong foe for you, the king told his brother. the straw knight jousts better than that one. next came ser horas redwyne's turn. he fared better than his twin, vanquishing an elderly knight whose mount was bedecked with silver griffins against a striped blue-and-white field. splendid as he looked, the old man made a poor contest of it. joffrey curled his lip. this is a feeble show. i warned you, said the hound. gnats. the king was growing bored, it made sansa anxious. she lowered her eyes and resolved to keep quiet, no matter what. when joffrey baratheon's mood darkened, any chance word might set off one of his rages. lothor brune, freerider in the service of lord baelish, cried the herald. ser dontos the red, of house ho hard.  the freerider, a small man in dented plate without device, duly appeared at the west end of the yard, but of his opponent there was no sign. finally a chestnut stallion trotted into view in a swirl of crimson and scarlet silks, but ser dontos was not on it. the knight appeared a moment later, cursing and staggering, clad in breastplate and plumed helm and nothing else. his legs were pale and skinny, and his manhood flopped about obscenely as he chased after his horse. the watchers roared and shouted insults. catching his horse by the bridle, ser dontos tried to mount, but the animal would not stand still and the knight was so drunk that his bare foot kept missing the stirrup. by then the crowd was howling with laughter... all but the king. joffrey had a look in his eyes that sansa remembered well, the same look he'd had at the great sept of baelor the day he pronounced death on lord eddard stark. finally ser dontos the red gave it up for a bad job, sat down in the dirt, and removed his plumed helm. i lose, he shouted. fetch me some wine. the king stood. a cask from the cellars! i'll see him drowned in it. sansa heard herself gasp. no, you can't. joffrey turned his head. what did you say? sansa could not believe she had spoken. was she mad? to tell him no in front of half the court? she hadn't meant to say anything, only... ser dontos was drunk and silly and useless, but he meant no harm. did you say i can't? did you? please, sansa said, i only meant... it would be ill luck, your grace... to, to kill a man on your name day. you're lying, joffrey said. i ought to drown you with him, if you care for him so much. i don't care for him, your grace. the words tumbled out desperately. drown him or have his head off, only... kill him on the morrow, if you like, but please... not today, not on your name day. i couldn't bear for you to have ill luck... terrible luck, even for kings, the singers all say so... joffrey scowled. he knew she was lying, she could see it. he would make her bleed for this. the girl speaks truly, the hound rasped. what a man sows on his name day, he reaps throughout the year. his voice was flat, as if he did not care a whit whether the king believed him or no. could it be true? sansa had not known. it was just something she'd said, desperate to avoid punishment. unhappy, joffrey shifted in his seat and flicked his fingers at ser dontos. take him away. i'll have him killed on the morrow, the fool. he is, sansa said. a fool. you're so clever, to see it. he's better fitted to be a fool than a knight, isn't he? you ought to dress him in motley and make him clown for you. he doesn't deserve the mercy of a quick death. the king studied her a moment. perhaps you're not so stupid as mother says. he raised his voice. did you hear my lady, dontos? from this day on, you're my new fool. you can sleep with moon boy and dress in motley. ser dontos, sobered by his near brush with death, crawled to his knees. thank you, your grace. and you, my lady. thank you. as a brace of lannister guardsmen led him off, the master of revels approached the box. your grace, he said, shall i summon a new challenger for brune, or proceed with the next tilt? neither. these are gnats, not knights. i'd have them all put to death, only it's my name day. the tourney is done. get them all out of my sight. the master of revels bowed, but prince tommen was not so obedient. i'm supposed to ride against the straw man. not today. but i want to ride! i don't care what you want. mother said i could ride. she said, princess myrcella agreed. mother said, mocked the king. don't be childish. we're children, myrcella declared haughtily. we're supposed to be childish. the hound laughed. she has you there. joffrey was beaten. very well. even my brother couldn't tilt any worse than these others. master, bring out the quintain, tommen wants to be a gnat. tommen gave a shout of joy and ran off to be readied, his chubby little legs pumping hard. luck, sansa called to him. they set up the quintain at the far end of the lists while the prince's pony was being saddled. tommen' s opponent was a child-sized leather warrior stuffed with straw and mounted on a pivot, with a shield in one hand and a padded mace in the other. someone had fastened a pair of antlers to the knight's head. joffrey's father king robert had worn antlers on his helm, sansa remembered... but so did his uncle lord renly, robert's brother, who had turned traitor and crowned himself king. a pair of squires buckled the prince into his ornate silver-and-crimson armor. a tall plume of red feathers sprouted from the crest of his helm, and the lion of lannister and crowned stag of baratheon frolicked together on his shield. the squires helped him mount, and ser aron santagar, the red keep's master-at-arms, stepped forward and handed tommen a blunted silver longsword with a leaf-shaped blade, crafted to fit an eight- year-old hand. tommen raised the blade high. casterly rock! he shouted in a high boyish voice as he put his heels into his pony and started across the hard-packed dirt at the quintain. lady tanda and lord gyles started a ragged cheer, and sansa added her voice to theirs. the king brooded in silence. tommen got his pony up to a brisk trot, waved his sword vigorously, and struck the knight's shield a solid blow as he went by. the quintain spun, the padded mace flying around to give the prince a mighty whack in the back of his head. tommen spilled from the saddle, his new armor rattling like a bag of old pots as he hit the ground. his sword went flying, his pony cantered away across the bailey, and a great gale of derision went up. king joffrey laughed longest and loudest of all. oh, princess myrcella cried. she scrambled out of the box and ran to her little brother. sansa found herself possessed of a queer giddy courage. you should go with her, she told the king. your brother might be hurt. joffrey shrugged. what if he is? you should help him up and tell him how well he rode. sansa could not seem to stop herself. he got knocked off his horse and fell in the dirt, the king pointed out. that's not riding well. look, the hound interrupted. the boy has courage. he's going to try again. they were helping prince tommen mount his pony. if only tommen were the elder instead of joffrey, sansa thought. i wouldn't mind marrying tommen. the sounds from the gatehouse took them by surprise. chains rattled as the portcullis was drawn upward, and the great gates opened to the creak of iron hinges. who told them to open the gate? jo ff demanded. with the troubles in the city, the gates of the red keep had been closed for days. a column of riders emerged from beneath the portcullis with a clink of steel and a clatter of hooves. clegane stepped close to the king, one hand on the hilt of his longsword. the visitors were dinted and haggard and dusty, yet the standard they carried was the lion of lannister, golden on its crimson field. a few wore the red cloaks and mail of lannister men-at-arms, but more were freeriders and sellswords, armored in oddments and bristling with sharp steel... and there were others, monstrous savages out of one of old nan's tales, the scary ones bran used to love. they were clad in shabby skins and boiled leather, with long hair and fierce beards. some wore bloodstained bandages over their brows or wrapped around their hands, and others were missing eyes, ears, and fingers. in their midst, riding on a tall red horse in a strange high saddle that cradled him back and front, was the queen's dwarf brother tyrion lannister, the one they called the imp. he had let his beard grow to cover his pushed- in face, until it was a bristly tangle of yellow and black hair, coarse as wire. down his back flowed a shadowskin cloak, black fur striped with white. he held the reins in his left hand and carried his right arm in a white silk sling, but otherwise looked as grotesque as sansa remembered from when he had visited winterfell. with his bulging brow and mismatched eyes, he was still the ugliest man she had ever chanced to look upon. yet tommen put his spurs into his pony and galloped headlong across the yard, shouting with glee. one of the savages, a huge shambling man so hairy that his face was all but lost beneath his whiskers, scooped the boy out of his saddle, armor and all, and deposited him on the ground beside his uncle. tommen' s breathless laughter echoed off the walls as tyrion clapped him on the backplate, and sansa was startled to see that the two were of a height. myrcella came running after her brother, and the dwarf picked her up by the waist and spun her in a circle, squealing. when he lowered her back to the ground, the little man kissed her lightly on the brow and came waddling across the yard toward joffrey. two of his men followed close behind him; a black-haired black-eyed sellsword who moved like a stalking cat, and a gaunt youth with an empty socket where one eye should have been. tommen and myrcella trailed after them. the dwarf went to one knee before the king. your grace. you, joffrey said. me, the imp agreed, although a more courteous greeting might be in order, for an uncle and an elder. they said you were dead, the hound said. the little man gave the big one a look. one of his eyes was green, one was black, and both were cool. i was speaking to the king, not to his cur. i'm glad you're not dead, said princess myrcella. we share that view, sweet child. tyrion turned to sansa. my lady, i am sorry for your losses. truly, the gods are cruel. sansa could not think of a word to say to him. how could he be sorry for her losses? was he mocking her? it wasn't the gods who'd been cruel, it was joffrey. i am sorry for your loss as well, joffrey, the dwarf said. what loss? your royal father? a large fierce man with a black beard; you'll recall him if you try. he was king before you. oh, him. yes, it was very sad, a boar killed him. is that what'they' say, your grace? joffrey frowned. sansa felt that she ought to say something. what was it that septa mordane used to tell her? a lady's armor is courtesy, that was it. she donned her armor and said, i'm sorry my lady mother took you captive, my lord. a great many people are sorry for that, tyrion replied, and before i am done, some may be a deal sorrier... yet i thank you for the sentiment. joffrey, where might i find your mother? she's with my council, the king answered. your brother jaime keeps losing battles. he gave sansa an angry look, as if it were her fault. he's been taken by the starks and we've lost riverrun and now her stupid brother is calling himself a king. the dwarf smiled crookedly. all sorts of people are calling themselves kings these days. joff did not know what to make of that, though he looked suspicious and out of sorts. yes. well. i am pleased you're not dead, uncle. did you bring me a gift for my name day? i did. my wits. i'd sooner have robb stark's head, joff said with a sly glance at sansa. tommen, myrcella, come. sandor clegane lingered behind a moment. i'd guard that tongue of yours, little man, he warned, before he strode off after his liege. sansa was left with the dwarf and his monsters. she tried to think of what else she might say. you hurt your arm, she managed at last. one of your northmen hit me with a morningstar during the battle on the green fork. i escaped him by falling off my horse. his grin turned into something softer as he studied her face. is it grief for your lord father that makes you so sad? my father was a traitor, sansa said at once. and my brother and lady mother are traitors as well. that reflex she had learned quickly. i am loyal to my beloved joffrey. no doubt. as loyal as a deer surrounded by wolves. lions, she whispered, without thinking. she glanced about nervously, but there was no one close enough to hear. lannister reached out and took her hand, and gave it a squeeze. i am only a little lion, child, and i vow, i shall not savage you. bowing, he said but now you must excuse me. i have urgent business with queen and council. sansa watched him walk off, his body swaying heavily from side to side with every step, like something from a grotesquerie. he speaks more gently than joffrey, she thought, but the queen spoke to me gently too. he's still a lannister, her brother and joff s uncle, and no friend. once she had loved prince joffrey with all her heart, and admired and trusted his mother, the queen. they had repaid that love and trust with her father's head. sansa would never make that mistake again. come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home. the words were the same on the hundredth reading as they'd been on the first, when sansa had discovered the folded sheet of parchment beneath her pillow. she did not know how it had gotten there or who had sent it. the note was unsigned, unsealed, and the hand unfamiliar. she crushed the parchment to her chest and whispered the words to herself. come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home, she breathed, ever so faintly. what could it mean? should she take it to the queen to prove that she was being good? nervously, she rubbed her stomach. the angry purple bruise ser meryn had given her had faded to an ugly yellow, but still hurt. his fist had been mailed when he hit her. it was her own fault. she must learn to hide her feelings better, so as not to anger joffrey. when she heard that the imp had sent lord slynt to the wall, she had forgotten herself and said, i hope the others get him. the king had not been pleased. come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home. sansa had prayed so hard. could this be her answer at last, a true knight sent to save her? perhaps it was one of the redwyne twins, or bold ser balon swann... or even beric dondarrion, the young lord her friend jeyne poole had loved, with his red-gold hair and the spray of stars on his black cloak. come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home. what if it was some cruel jape of joffrey's, like the day he had taken her up to the battlements to show her father's head? or perhaps it was some subtle snare to prove she was not loyal. if she went to the godswood, would she find ser ilyn payne waiting for her, sitting silent under the heart tree with ice in his hand, his pale eyes watching to see if she'd come? come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home. when the door opened, she hurriedly stuffed the note under her sheet and sat on it. it was her bedmaid, the mousy one with the limp brown hair. what do you want? sansa demanded. will milady be wanting a bath tonight? a fire, i think... i feel a chill. she was shivering, though the day had been hot. as you wish. sansa watched the girl suspiciously. had she seen the note? had she put it under the pillow? it did not seem likely; she seemed a stupid girl, not one you'd want delivering secret notes, but sansa did not know her. the queen had her servants changed every fortnight, to make certain none of them befriended her. when a fire was blazing in the hearth, sansa thanked the maid curtly and ordered her out. the girl was quick to obey, as ever, but sansa decided there was something sly about her eyes. doubtless, she was scurrying off to report to the queen, or maybe varys. all her maids spied on her, she was certain. once alone, she thrust the note in the flames, watching the parchment curl and blacken. come to the godswood tonight, if you want to go home. she drifted to her window. below, she could see a short knight in moon-pale armor and a heavy white cloak pacing the drawbridge. from his height, it could only be ser preston greenfield. the queen had given her freedom of the castle, but even so, he would want to know where she was going if she tried to leave maegor's holdfast at this time of night. what was she to tell him? suddenly she was glad she had burned the note. she unlaced her gown and crawled into her bed, but she did not sleep. was he still there? she wondered. how long will he wait? it was so cruel, to send her a note and tell her nothing. the thoughts went round and round in her head. if only she had someone to tell her what to do. she missed septa mordane, and even more jeyne poole, her truest friend. the septa had lost her head with the rest, for the crime of serving house stark. sansa did not know what had happened to jeyne, who had disappeared from her rooms afterward, never to be mentioned again. she tried not to think of them too often, yet sometimes the memories came unbidden, and then it was hard to hold back the tears. once in a while, sansa even missed her sister. by now arya was safe back in winterfell, dancing and sewing, playing with bran and baby rickon, even riding through the winter town if she liked. sansa was allowed to go riding too, but only in the bailey, and it got boring going round in a circle all day. she was wide awake when she heard the shouting. distant at first, then growing louder. many voices yelling together. she could not make out the words. and there were horses as well, and pounding feet, shouts of command. she crept to her window and saw men running on the walls, carrying spears and torches. go back to your bed, sansa told herself, this is nothing that concerns you, just some new trouble out in the city. the talk at the wells had all been of troubles in the city of late. people were crowding in, running from the war, and many had no way to live save by robbing and killing each other. go to bed. but when she looked, the white knight was gone, the bridge across the dry moat down but undefended. sansa turned away without thinking and ran to her wardrobe, oh, what am i doing? she asked herself as she dressed. this is madness. she could see the lights of many torches on the curtain walls. had stannis and renly come at last to kill joffrey and claim their brother's throne? if so, the guards would raise the drawbridge, cutting off maegor's holdfast from the outer castle. sansa threw a plain grey cloak over her shoulders and picked up the knife she used to cut her meat. if it is some trap, better that i die than let them hurt me more, she told herself. she hid the blade under her cloak. a column of red-cloaked swordsmen ran past as she slipped out into the night. she waited until they were well past before she darted across the undefended drawbridge. in the yard, men were buckling on swordbelts and cinching the saddles of their horses. she glimpsed ser preston near the stables with three others of the kingsguard, white cloaks bright as the moon as they helped joffrey into his armor. her breath caught in her throat when she saw the king. thankfully, he did not see her. he was shouting for his sword and crossbow. the noise receded as she moved deeper into the castle, never daring to look back for fear that joffrey might be watching... or worse, following. the serpentine steps twisted ahead, striped by bars of flickering light from the narrow windows above. sansa was panting by the time she reached the top. she ran down a shadowy colonnade and pressed herself against a wall to catch her breath. when something brushed against her leg, she almost jumped out of her skin, but it was only a cat, a ragged black torn with a chewed-off ear. the creature spit at her and leapt away. by the time she reached the godswood, the noises had faded to a faint rattle of steel and a distant shouting. sansa pulled her cloak tighter. the air was rich with the smells of earth and leaf. lady would have liked this place, she thought. there was something wild about a godswood; even here, in the heart of the castle at the heart of the city, you could feel the old gods watching with a thousand unseen eyes. sansa had favored her mother's gods over her father's. she loved the statues, the pictures in leaded glass, the fragrance of burning incense, the septons with their robes and crystals, the magical play of the rainbows over altars inlaid with mother-of-pearl and onyx and lapis lazuli. yet she could not deny that the godswood had a certain power too. especially by night. help me, she prayed, send me a friend, a true knight to champion me... she moved from tree to tree, feeling the roughness of the bark beneath her fingers. leaves brushed at her cheeks. had she come too late? he would not have left so soon, would he? or had he even been here? dare she risk calling out? it seemed so hushed and still here... i feared you would not come, child. sansa whirled. a man stepped out of the shadows, heavyset, thick of neck, shambling. he wore a dark grey robe with the cowl pulled forward, but when a thin sliver of moonlight touched his cheek, she knew him at once by the blotchy skin and web of broken veins beneath. ser dontos, she breathed, heartbroken. was it you? yes, my lady. when he moved closer, she could smell the sour stench of wine on his breath. me. he reached out a hand. sansa shrank back. don't! she slid her hand under her cloak, to her hidden knife. what... what do you want with me? only to help you, dontos said, as you helped me. you're drunk, aren't you? only one cup of wine, to help my courage. if they catch me now, they'll strip the skin off my back. and what will they do to me? sansa found herself thinking of lady again. she could smell out falsehood, she could, but she was dead, father had killed her, on account of arya. she drew the knife and held it before her with both hands. are you going to stab me? dontos asked. i will, she said. tell me who sent you. no one, sweet lady. i swear it on my honor as a knight. a knight? joffrey had decreed that he was to be a knight no longer, only a fool, lower even than moon boy. i prayed to the gods for a knight to come save me, she said. i prayed and prayed. why would they send me a drunken old fool? i deserve that, though... i know it's queer, but... all those years i was a knight, i was truly a fool, and now that i am a fool i think... i think i may find it in me to be a knight again, sweet lady. and all because of you... your grace, your courage. you saved me, not only from joffrey, but from myself. his voice dropped. the singers say there was another fool once who was the greatest knight of all. florian, sansa whispered. a shiver went through her. sweet lady, i would be your florian, dontos said humbly, falling to his knees before her. slowly, sansa lowered the knife. her head seemed terribly light, as if she were floating. this is madness, to trust myself to this drunkard, but if i turn away will the chance ever come again? how... how would you do it? get me away? ser dontos raised his face to her. taking you from the castle, that will be the hardest. once you're out, there are ships that would take you home. i'd need to find the coin and make the arrangements, that's all. could we go now? she asked, hardly daring to hope. this very night? no, my lady, i fear not. first i must find a sure way to get you from the castle when the hour is ripe. it will not be easy, nor quick. they watch me as well. he licked his lips nervously. will you put away your blade? sansa slipped the knife beneath her cloak. rise, ser. thank you, sweet lady. ser dontos lurched clumsily to his feet, and brushed earth and leaves from his knees. your lord father was as true a man as the realm has ever known, but i stood by and let them slay him. i said nothing, did nothing... and yet, when joffrey would have slain me, you spoke up. lady, i have never been a hero, no ryam redwyne or barristan the bold. i've won no tourneys, no renown in war... but i was a knight once, and you have helped me remember what that meant. my life is a poor thing, but it is yours. ser dontos placed a hand on the gnarled bole of the heart tree. he was shaking, she saw. i vow, with your father's gods as witness, that i shall send you home. he swore. a solemn oath, before the gods. then... i will put myself in your hands, ser. but how will i know, when it is time to go? will you send me another note? ser dontos glanced about anxiously. the risk is too great. you must come here, to the godswood. as often as you can. this is the safest place. the only safe place. nowhere else. not in your chambers nor mine nor on the steps nor in the yard, even if it seems we are alone. the stones have ears in the red keep, and only here may we talk freely. only here, sansa said. i'll remember. and if i should seem cruel or mocking or indifferent when men are watching, forgive me, child. i have a role to play, and you must do the same. one misstep and our heads will adorn the walls as did your father's. she nodded. i understand. you will need to be brave and strong... and patient, patient above all. i will be, she promised, but... please... make it as soon as you can. i'm afraid... so am i, ser dontos said, smiling wanly. and now you must go, before you are missed. you will not come with me? better if we are never seen together. nodding, sansa took a step... then spun back, nervous, and softly laid a kiss on his cheek, her eyes closed. my florian, she whispered. the gods heard my prayer. she flew along the river walk, past the small kitchen, and through the pig yard, her hurried footsteps lost beneath the squealing of the hogs in their pens. home, she thought, home, he is going to take me home, he'll keep me safe, my florian. the songs about florian and jonquil were her very favorites. florian was homely too, though not so old. she was racing headlong down the serpentine steps when a man lurched out of a hidden doorway. sansa caromed into him and lost her balance. iron fingers caught her by the wrist before she could fall, and a deep voice rasped at her. it's a long roll down the serpentine, little bird. want to kill us both? his laughter was rough as a saw on stone. maybe you do. the hound. no, my lord, pardons, i'd never. sansa averted her eyes but it was too late, he'd seen her face. please, you're hurting me. she tried to wriggle free. and what's joff s little bird doing flying down the serpentine in the black of night? when she did not answer, he shook her. where were you?  the g-g-godswood, my lord, she said, not daring to lie. praying... praying for my father, and... for the king, praying that he'd not be hurt. think i'm so drunk that i'd believe that? he let go his grip on her arm, swaying slightly as he stood, stripes of light and darkness falling across his terrible burnt face. you look almost a woman... face, teats, and you're taller too, almost... ah, you're still a stupid little bird, aren't you? singing all the songs they taught you... sing me a song, why don't you? go on. sing to me. some song about knights and fair maids. you like knights, don't you? he was scaring her. t-true knights, my lord. true knights, he mocked. and i'm no lord, no more than i'm a knight. do i need to beat that into you? clegane reeled and almost fell. gods, he swore, too much wine. do you like wine, little bird? rue wine? a flagon of sour red, dark as blood, all a man needs. or a woman. he laughed, shook his head. drunk as a dog, damn me. you come now. back to your cage, little bird. i'll take you there. keep you safe for the king. the hound gave her a push, oddly gentle, and followed her down the steps. by the time they reached the bottom, he had lapsed back into a brooding silence, as if he had forgotten she was there. when they reached maegor's holdfast, she was alarmed to see that it was ser boros blount who now held the bridge. his high white helm turned stiffly at the sound of their footsteps. sansa flinched away from his gaze. ser boros was the worst of the kingsguard, an ugly man with a foul temper, all scowls and jowls. that one is nothing to fear, girl. the hound laid a heavy hand on her shoulder. paint stripes on a toad, he does not become a tiger. ser boros lifted his visor. ser, where- fuck your ser, boros. you're the knight, not me. i'm the king's dog, remember?  the king was looking for his dog earlier. the dog was drinking. it was your night to shield him, ser. you and my other brothers. ser boros turned to sansa. how is it you are not in your chambers at this hour, lady? i went to the godswood to pray for the safety of the king. the lie sounded better this time, almost true. you expect her to sleep with all the noise? clegane said. what was the trouble?  fools at the gate, ser boros admitted. some loose tongues spread tales of the preparations for tyrek's wedding feast, and these wretches got it in their heads they should be feasted too. his grace led a sortie and sent them scurrying. a brave boy, clegane said, mouth twitching. let us see how brave he is when he faces my brother, sansa thought. the hound escorted her across the drawbridge. as they were winding their way up the steps, she said, why do you let people call you a dog? you won't let anyone call you a knight. i like dogs better than knights. my father's father was kennelmaster at the rock. one autumn year, lord tytos came between a lioness and her prey. the lioness didn't give a shit that she was lannister's own sigil. bitch tore into my lord's horse and would have done for my lord too, but my grandfather came up with the hounds. three of his dogs died running her off. my grandfather lost a leg, so lannister paid him for it with lands and a towerhouse, and took his son to squire. the three dogs on our banner are the three that died, in the yellow of autumn grass. a hound will die for you, but never lie to you. and he'll look you straight in the face. he cupped her under the jaw, raising her chin, his fingers pinching her painfully. and that's more than little birds can do, isn't it? i never got my song. i... i know a song about florian and jonquil. florian and jonquil? a fool and his cunt. spare me. but one day i'll have a song from you, whether you will it or no. i will sing it for you gladly. sandor clegane snorted. pretty thing, and such a bad liar. a dog can smell a lie, you know. look around you, and take a good whiff. they're all liars here... and every one better than you. the longer you keep him waiting, the worse it will go for you, sandor clegane warned her. sansa tried to hurry, but her fingers fumbled at buttons and knots. the hound was always rough-tongued, but something in the way he had looked at her filled her with dread. had joffrey found out about her meetings with ser dontos? please no, she thought as she brushed out her hair. ser dontos was her only hope. i have to look pretty, joff likes me to look pretty, he's always liked me in this gown, this color. she smoothed the cloth down. the fabric was tight across her chest. when she emerged, sansa walked on the hound's left, away from the burned side of his face. tell me what i've done. not you. your kingly brother. robb's a traitor. sansa knew the words by rote. i had no part in whatever he did. gods be good, don't let it be the kingslayer. if robb had harmed jaime larmister, it would mean her life. she thought of ser ilyn, and how those terrible pale eyes staring pitilessly out of that gaunt pockmarked face. the hound snorted. they trained you well, little bird. he conducted her to the lower bailey, where a crowd had gathered around the archery butts. men moved aside to let them through. she could hear lord gyles coughing. loitering stablehands eyed her insolently, but ser horas redwyne averted his gaze as she passed, and his brother hobber pretended not to see her. a yellow cat was dying on the ground, mewling piteously, a crossbow quarrel through its ribs. sansa stepped around it, feeling ill. ser dontos approached on his broomstick horse; since he'd been too drunk to mount his destrier at the tourney, the king had decreed that henceforth he must always go horsed. be brave, he whispered, squeezing her arm. joffrey stood in the center of the throng, winding an ornate crossbow. ser boros and ser meryn were with him. the sight of them was enough to tie her insides in knots. your grace. she fell to her knees. kneeling won't save you now, the king said. stand up. you're here to answer for your brother's latest treasons. your grace, whatever my traitor brother has done, i had no part. you know that, i beg you, please- get her up! the hound pulled her to her feet, not ungently. ser lancel, joff said, tell her of this outrage. sansa had always thought lancel larmister comely and well spoken, but there was neither pity nor kindness in the look he gave her. using some vile sorcery, your brother fell upon ser stafford lannister with an army of wargs, not three days ride from lannisport. thousands of good men were butchered as they slept, without the chance to lift sword. after the slaughter, the northmen feasted on the flesh of the slain. horror coiled cold hands around sansa's throat. you have nothing to say? asked joffrey. your grace, the poor child is shocked witless, murmured ser dontos. silence, fool. joffrey lifted his crossbow and pointed it at her face. you starks are as unnatural as those wolves of yours. i've not forgotten how your monster savaged me. that was arya's wolf, she said. lady never hurt you, but you killed her anyway. no, your father did, joff said, but i killed your father. i wish i'd done it myself. i killed a man last night who was bigger than your father. they came to the gate shouting my name and calling for bread like i was some baker, but i taught them better. i shot the loudest one right through the throat. and he died? with the ugly iron head of the quarrel staring her in the face, it was hard to think what else to say. of course he died, he had my quarrel in his throat. there was a woman throwing rocks, i got her as well, but only in the arm. frowning, he lowered the crossbow. i'd shoot you too, but if i do mother says they'd kill my uncle jaime. instead you'll just be punished and we'll send word to your brother about what will happen to you if he doesn't yield. dog, hit her. let me beat her! ser dontos shoved forward, tin armor clattering. he was armed with a morningstar whose head was a melon. my florian. she could have kissed him, blotchy skin and broken veins and all. he trotted his broomstick around her, shouting traitor, traitor and whacking her over the head with the melon. sansa covered herself with her hands, staggering every time the fruit pounded her, her hair sticky by the second blow. people were laughing. the melon flew to pieces. laugh, joffrey, she prayed as the juice ran down her face and the front of her blue silk gown. laugh and be satisfied. joffrey did not so much as snigger. boros. meryn. ser meryn trant seized dontos by the arm and flung him brusquely away. the red-faced fool went sprawling, broomstick, melon, and all. ser boros seized sansa. leave her face, joffrey commanded. i like her pretty. boros slammed a fist into sansa's belly, driving the air out of her. when she doubled over, the knight grabbed her hair and drew his sword, and for one hideous instant she was certain he meant to open her throat. as he laid the flat of the blade across her thighs, she thought her legs might break from the force of the blow. sansa screamed. tears welled in her eyes. it will be over soon. she soon lost count of the blows. enough, she heard the hound rasp. no it isn't, the king replied. boros, make her naked. boros shoved a meaty hand down the front of sansa's bodice and gave a hard yank. the silk came tearing away, baring her to the waist. sansa covered her breasts with her hands. she could hear sniggers, far off and cruel. beat her bloody, joffrey said, we'll see how her brother fancies- what is the meaning of this? the imp's voice cracked like a whip, and suddenly sansa was free. she stumbled to her knees, arms crossed over her chest, her breath ragged. is this your notion of chivalry, ser boros? tyrion lannister demanded angrily. his pet sellsword stood with him, and one of his wildlings, the one with the burned eye. what sort of knight beats helpless maids? the sort who serves his king, imp. ser boros raised his sword, and ser meryn stepped up beside him, his blade scraping clear of its scabbard. careful with those, warned the dwarfs sellsword. you don't want to get blood all over those pretty white cloaks. someone give the girl something to cover herself with, the imp said. sandor clegane unfastened his cloak and tossed it at her. sansa clutched it against her chest, fists bunched hard in the white wool. the coarse weave was scratchy against her skin, but no velvet had ever felt so fine. this girl's to be your queen, the imp told joffrey. have you no regard for her honor? i'm punishing her. for what crime? she did not fight her brother's battle. she has the blood of a wolf. and you have the wits of a goose. you can't talk to me that way. the king can do as he likes. aerys targaryen did as he liked. has your mother ever told you what happened to him? ser boros blount harrumphed. no man threatens his grace in the presence of the kingsguard. tyrion lannister raised an eyebrow. i am not threatening the king, ser, i am educating my nephew. bronn, timett, the next time ser boros opens his mouth, kill him. the dwarf smiled. now that was a threat, ser. see the difference? ser boros turned a dark shade of red. the queen will hear of this! no doubt she will. and why wait? joffrey, shall we send for your mother?  the king flushed. nothing to say, your grace? his uncle went on. good. learn to use your ears more and your mouth less, or your reign will be shorter than i am. wanton brutality is no way to win your people's love... or your queen's. fear is better than love, mother says. joffrey pointed at sansa. she fears me. the imp sighed. yes, i see. a pity stannis and renly aren't twelve year-old girls as well. bronn, timett, bring her. sansa moved as if in a dream. she thought the imp's men would take her back to her bedchamber in maegor's holdfast, but instead they conducted her to the tower of the hand. she had not set foot inside that place since the day her father fell from grace, and it made her feel faint to climb those steps again. some serving girls took charge of her, mouthing meaningless comforts to stop her shaking. one stripped off the ruins of her gown and smallclothes, and another bathed her and washed the sticky juice from her face and her hair. as they scrubbed her down with soap and sluiced warm water over her head, all she could see were the faces from the bailey. knights are sworn to defend the weak, protect women, and fight for the right, but none of them did a thing. only ser dontos had tried to help, and he was no longer a knight, no more than the imp was, nor the hound... the hound hated knights... i hate them too, sansa thought. they are no true knights, not one of them. after she was clean, plump ginger-headed maester frenken came to see her. he bid her lie facedown on the mattress while he spread a salve across the angry red welts that covered the backs of her legs. afterward he mixed her a draught of dreamwine, with some honey so it might go down easier. sleep a bit, child. when you wake, all this will seem a bad dream. no it won't, you stupid man, sansa thought, but she drank the drearnwine anyway, and slept. it was dark when she woke again, not quite knowing where she was, the room both strange and strangely familiar. as she rose, a stab of pain went through her legs and brought it all back. tears filled her eyes. someone had laid out a robe for her beside the bed. sansa slipped it on and opened the door. outside stood a hard-faced woman with leathery brown skin, three necklaces looped about her scrawny neck. one was gold and one was silver and one was made of human ears. where does she think she's going? the woman asked, leaning on a tall spear. the godswood.- she had to find ser dontos, beg him to take her home now before it was too late. the halfman said you're not to leave, the woman said. pray here, the gods will hear. meekly, sansa dropped her eyes and retreated back inside. she realized suddenly why this place seemed so familiar. they've put me in arya's old bedchamber, from when father was the hand of the king. all her things are gone and the furnishings have been moved around, but it's the same... a short time later, a serving girl brought a platter of cheese and bread and olives, with a flagon of cold water. take it away, sansa commanded, but the girl left the food on a table. she was thirsty, she realized. every step sent knives through her thighs, but she made herself cross the room. she drank two cups of water, and was nibbling on an olive when the knock came. anxiously, she turned toward the door, smoothed down the folds of her robe. yes? the door opened, and tyrion lannister stepped inside. my lady. i trust i am not disturbing you? am i your prisoner? my guest. he was wearing his chain of office, a necklace of linked golden hands. i thought we might talk. as my lord commands. sansa found it hard not to stare; his face was so ugly it held a queer fascination for her. the food and garments are to your satisfaction? he asked. if there is anything else you need, you have only to ask. you are most kind. and this morning... it was very good of you to help me. you have a right to know why joffrey was so wroth. six nights gone, your brother fell upon my uncle stafford, encamped with his host at a village called oxcross not three days ride from casterly rock. your northerners won a crushing victory. we received word only this morning. robb will kill you all, she thought, exulting. it's... terrible, my lord. my brother is a vile traitor. the dwarf smiled wanly. well, he's no fawn, he's made that clear enough. ser lancel said robb led an army of wargs. the imp gave a disdainful bark of laughter. ser lancel's a wineskin warrior who wouldn't know a warg from a wart. your brother had his direwolf with him, but i suspect that's as far as it went. the northmen crept into my uncle's camp and cut his horse lines, and lord stark sent his wolf among them. even war-trained destriers went mad. knights were trampled to death in their pavilions, and the rabble woke in terror and fled, casting aside their weapons to run the faster. ser stafford was slain as he chased after a horse. lord rickard karstark drove a lance through his chest. ser rubert brax is also dead, along with ser lymond vikary, lord crakehall, and lord jast. haifa hundred more have been taken captive, including jast's sons and my nephew martyn lannister. those who survived are spreading wild tales and swearing that the old gods of the north march with your brother. then... there was no sorcery? lannister snorted. sorcery is the sauce fools spoon over failure to hide the flavor of their own incompetence. my mutton-headed uncle had not even troubled to post sentries, it would seem. his host was raw-apprentice boys, miners, fieldhands, fisherfolk, the sweepings of lannisport. the only mystery is how your brother reached him. our forces still hold the stronghold at the golden tooth, and they swear he did not pass. the dwarf gave an irritated shrug. well, robb stark is my father's bane. joffrey is mine. tell me, what do you feel for my kingly nephew? i love him with all my heart, sansa said at once. truly? he did not sound convinced. even now? my love for his grace is greater than it has ever been. the imp laughed aloud. well, someone has taught you to lie well. you may be grateful for that one day, child. you are a child still, are you not? or have you flowered? sansa blushed. it was a rude question, but the shame of being stripped before half the castle made it seem like nothing. no, my lord. that's all to the good. if it gives you any solace, i do not intend that you ever wed joffrey. no marriage will reconcile stark and lannister after all that has happened, i fear. more's the pity. the match was one of king robert's better notions, if joffrey hadn't mucked it up. she knew she ought to say something, but the words caught in her throat. you grow very quiet, tyrion lannister observed. is this what you want? an end to your betrothal? i... sansa did not know what to say. is it a trick? will he punish me if i tell the truth? she stared at the dwarfs brutal bulging brow, the hard black eye and the shrewd green one, the crooked teeth and wiry beard. i only want to be loyal. loyal, the dwarf mused, and far from any lannisters. i can scarce blame you for that. when i was your age, i wanted the same thing. he smiled. they tell me you visit the godswood every day. what do you pray for, sansa? i pray for robb's victory and joffrey's death... and for home. for winterfell. i pray for an end to the fighting. we'll have that soon enough. there will be another battle, between your brother robb and my lord father, and that will settle the issue. robb will beat him, sansa thought. he beat your uncle and your brother jaime, he'll beat your father too. it was as if her face were an open book, so easily did the dwarf read her hopes. do not take oxcross too much to heart, my lady, he told her, not unkindly. a battle is not a war, and my lord father is assuredly not my uncle stafford. the next time you visit the godswood, pray that your brother has the wisdom to bend the knee. once the north returns to the king's peace, i mean to send you home. he hopped down off the window seat and said, you may sleep here tonight. i'll give you some of my own men as a guard, some stone crows perhaps- no, sansa blurted out, aghast. if she was locked in the tower of the hand, guarded by the dwarfs men, how would ser dontos ever spirit her away to freedom? would you prefer black ears? i'll give you chella if a woman would make you more at ease. please, no, my lord, the wildlings frighten me. he grinned. me as well. but more to the point, they frighten joffrey and that nest of sly vipers and lickspittle dogs he calls a kingsguard. with chella or timett by your side, no one would dare offer you harm. i would sooner return to my own bed. a lie came to her suddenly, but it seemed so right that she blurted it out at once. this tower was where my father's men were slain. their ghosts would give me terrible dreams, and i would see their blood wherever i looked. tyrion lannister studied her face. i am no stranger to nightmares, sansa. perhaps you are wiser than i knew. permit me at least to escort you safely back to your own chambers. the southern sky was black with smoke. it rose swirling off a hundred distant fires, its sooty fingers smudging out the stars. across the blackwater rush, a line of flame burned nightly from horizon to horizon, while on this side the imp had fired the whole riverfront: docks and warehouses, homes and brothels, everything outside the city walls. even in the red keep, the air tasted of ashes. when sansa found ser dontos in the quiet of the godswood, he asked if she'd been crying. it's only from the smoke, she lied. it looks as though half the kingswood is burning. lord stannis wants to smoke out the imp's savages. dontos swayed as he spoke, one hand on the trunk of a chestnut tree. a wine stain discolored the red-and-yellow motley of his tunic. they kill his scouts and raid his baggage train. and the wildlings have been lighting fires too. the imp told the queen that stannis had better train his horses to eat ash, since he would find no blade of grass. i heard him say so. i hear all sorts of things as a fool that i never heard when i was a knight. they talk as though i am not there, andhe leaned close, breathing his winey breath right in her face-the spider pays in gold for any little trifle. i think moon boy has been his for years. he is drunk again. my poor florian he names himself, and so he is. but he is all i have. is it true lord stannis burned the godswood at storm's end? dontos nodded. he made a great pyre of the trees as an offering to his new god. the red priestess made him do it. they say she rules him now, body and soul. he's vowed to burn the great sept of baelor too, if he takes the city. let him. when sansa had first beheld the great sept with its marble walls and seven crystal towers, she'd thought it was the most beautiful building in the world, but that had been before joffrey beheaded her father on its steps. i want it burned. hush, child, the gods will hear you. why should they? they never hear my prayers. yes they do. they sent me to you, didn't they? sansa picked at the bark of a tree. she felt light-headed, almost feverish. they sent you, but what good have you done? you promised you would take me home, but i'm still here. dontos patted her arm. i've spoken to a certain man i know, a good friend to me... and you, my lady. he will hire a swift ship to take us to safety, when the time is right. the time is right now, sansa insisted, before the fighting starts. they've forgotten about me. i know we could slip away if we tried. child, child. dontos shook his head. out of the castle, yes, we could do that, but the city gates are more heavily guarded than ever, and the imp has even closed off the river. it was true. the blackwater rush was as empty as sansa had ever seen it. all the ferries had been withdrawn to the north bank, and the trading galleys had fled or been seized by the imp to be made over for battle. the only ships to be seen were the king's war galleys. they rowed endlessly up and down, staying to the deep water in the middle of the river and exchanging flights of arrows with stannis's archers on the south shore. lord stannis himself was still on the march, but his vanguard had appeared two nights ago during the black of the moon. king's landing had woken to the sight of their tents and banners. they were five thousand, sansa had heard, near as many as all the gold cloaks in the city. they flew the red or green apples of house fossoway, the turtle of estermont, and the fox-and-flowers of flo rent, and their commander was ser guyard morrigen, a famous southron knight who men now called guyard the green. his standard showed a crow in flight, its black wings spread wide against a storm-green sky. but it was the pale yellow banners that worried the city. long ragged tails streamed behind them like flickering flames, and in place of a lord's sigil they bore the device of a god: the burning heart of the lord of light. when stannis comes, he'll have ten times as many men as joffrey does, everyone says so. dontos squeezed her shoulder. the size of his host does not matter, sweetling, so long as they are on the wrong side of the river. stannis cannot cross without ships. he has ships. more than joffrey. it's a long sail from storm's end, the fleet will need to come up massey's hook and through the gullet and across blackwater bay. perhaps the good gods will send a storm to sweep them from the seas. dontos gave a hopeful smile. it is not easy for you, i know. you must be patient, child. when my friend returns to the city, we shall have our ship. have faith in your florian, and try not to be afraid. sansa dug her nails into her hand. she could feel the fear in her tummy, twisting and pinching, worse every day. nightmares of the day princess myrcella had sailed still troubled her sleep; dark suffocating dreams that woke her in the black of night, struggling for breath. she could hear the people screaming at her, screaming without words, like animals. they had hemmed her in and thrown filth at her and tried to pull her off her horse, and would have done worse if the hound had not cut his way to her side. they had torn the high septon to pieces and smashed in ser axon's head with a rock. try not to be afraid! he said. the whole city was afraid. sansa could see it from the castle walls. the smallfolk were hiding themselves behind closed shutters and barred doors as if that would keep them safe. the last time king's landing had fallen, the lannisters looted and raped as they pleased and put hundreds to the sword, even though the city had opened its gates. this time the imp meant to fight, and a city that fought could expect no mercy at all. dontos was prattling on. if i were still a knight, i should have to put on armor and man the walls with the rest. i ought to kiss king joffrey's feet and thank him sweetly. if you thanked him for making you a fool, he'd make you a knight again, sansa said sharply. dontos chuckled. my jonquil's a clever girl, isn't she? joffrey and his mother say i'm stupid. let them. you're safer that way, sweetling. queen cersei and the imp and lord varys and their like, they all watch each other keen as hawks, and pay this one and that one to spy out what the others are doing, but no one ever troubles themselves about lady tanda's daughter, do they? dontos covered his mouth to stifle a burp. gods preserve you, my little jonquil. he was growing weepy. the wine did that to him. give your florian a little kiss now. a kiss for luck. he swayed toward her. sansa dodged the wet groping lips, kissed him lightly on an unshaven cheek, and bid him good night. it took all her strength not to weep. she had been weeping too much of late. it was unseemly, she knew, but she could not seem to help herself; the tears would come, sometimes over a trifle, and nothing she did could hold them back. the drawbridge to maegor's holdfast was unguarded. the imp had moved most of the gold cloaks to the city walls, and the white knights of the kingsguard had duties more important than dogging her heels. sansa could go where she would so long as she did not try to leave the castle, but there was nowhere she wanted to go. she crossed over the dry moat with its cruel iron spikes and made her way up the narrow turnpike stair, but when she reached the door of her bedchamber she could not bear to enter. the very walls of the room made her feel trapped; even with the window opened wide it felt as though there were no air to breathe. turning back to the stair, sansa climbed. the smoke blotted out the stars and the thin crescent of moon, so the roof was dark and thick with shadows. yet from here she could see everything: the red keep's tall towers and great cornerforts, the maze of city streets beyond, to south and west the river running black, the bay to the east, the columns of smoke and cinders, and fires, fires everywhere. soldiers crawled over the city walls like ants with torches, and crowded the hoardings that had sprouted from the ramparts. down by the mud gate, outlined against the drifting smoke, she could make out the vague shape of the three huge catapults, the biggest anyone had ever seen, overtopping the walls by a good twenty feet. yet none of it made her feel less fearful. a stab went through her, so sharp that sansa sobbed and clutched at her belly. she might have fallen, but a shadow moved suddenly, and strong fingers grabbed her arm and steadied her. she grabbed a merlon for support, her fingers scrabbling at the rough stone. let go of me, she cried. let go. the little bird thinks she has wings, does she? or do you mean to end up crippled like that brother of yours? sansa twisted in his grasp. i wasn't going to fall. it was only... you startled me, that's all. you mean i scared you. and still do. she took a deep breath to calm herself. i thought i was alone, i she glanced away. the little bird still can't bear to look at me, can she? the hound released her. you were glad enough to see my face when the mob had you, though. remember? sansa remembered all too well. she remembered the way they had howled, the feel of the blood running down her cheek from where the stone had struck her, and the garlic stink on the breath of the man who had tried to pull her from her horse. she could still feel the cruel pinch of fingers on her wrist as she lost her balance and began to fall. she'd thought she was going to die then, but the fingers had twitched, all five at once, and the man had shrieked loud as a horse. when his hand fell away, another hand, stronger, shoved her back into her saddle. the man with the garlicky breath was on the ground, blood pumping out the stump of his arm, but there were others all around, some with clubs in hand. the hound leapt at them, his sword a blur of steel that trailed a red mist as it swung. when they broke and ran before him he had laughed, his terrible burned face for a moment transformed. she made herself look at that face now, really look. it was only courteous, and a lady must never forget her courtesies. the scars are not the worst part, nor even the way his mouth twitches. it's his eyes. she had never seen eyes so full of anger. i... i should have come to you after, she said haltingly. to thank you, for... for saving me... you were so brave. brave? his laugh was half a snarl. a dog doesn't need courage to chase off rats. they had me thirty to one, and not a man of them dared face me. she hated the way he talked, always so harsh and angry. does it give you joy to scare people? no, it gives me joy to kill people. his mouth twitched. wrinkle up your face all you like, but spare me this false piety. you were a high lord's get. don't tell me lord eddard stark of winterfell never killed a man. that was his duty. he never liked it. is that what he told you? clegane laughed again. your father lied. killing is the sweetest thing there is. he drew his longsword. here's your truth. your precious father found that out on baelor's steps. lord of winterfell, hand of the king, warden of the north, the mighty eddard stark, of a line eight thousand years old... but ilyn payne's blade went through his neck all the same, didn't it? do you remember the dance he did when his head came off his shoulders? sansa hugged herself, suddenly cold. why are you always so hateful? i was thanking you... just as if i was one of those true knights you love so well, yes. what do you think a knight is for, girl? you think it's all taking favors from ladies and looking fine in gold plate? knights are for killing. he laid the edge of his longsword against her neck, just under her ear. sansa could feel the sharpness of the steel. i killed my first man at twelve. i've lost count of how many i've killed since then. high lords with old names, fat rich men dressed in velvet, knights puffed up like bladders with their honors, yes, and women and children too-they're all meat, and i'm the butcher. let them have their lands and their gods and their gold. let them have their sers. sandor clegane spat at her feet to show what he thought of that. so long as i have this, he said, lifting the sword from her throat, there's no man on earth i need fear. except your brother, sansa thought, but she had better sense than to say it aloud. he is a dog, just as he says. a half-wild, mean-tempered dog that bites any hand that tries to pet him, and yet will savage any man who tries to hurt his masters. not even the men across the river? clegane's eyes turned toward the distant fires. all this burning. he sheathed his sword. only cowards fight with fire. lord stannis is no coward. - he's not the man his brother was either. robert never let a little thing like a river stop him. what will you do when he crosses? fight. kill. die, maybe. aren't you afraid? the gods might send you down to some terrible hell for all the evil you've done. what evil? he laughed. what gods? the gods who made us all. all? he mocked. tell me, little bird, what kind of god makes a monster like the imp, or a halfwit like lady tanda's daughter? if there are gods, they made sheep so wolves could eat mutton, and they made the weak for the strong to play with. true knights protect the weak. he snorted. there are no true knights, no more than there are gods. if you can't protect yourself, die and get out of the way of those who can. sharp steel and strong arms rule this world, don't ever believe any different. sansa backed away from him. you're awful. i'm honest. it's the world that's awful. now fly away, little bird, i'm sick of you peeping at me. wordless, she fled. she was afraid of sandor clegane... and yet, some part of her wished that ser dontos had a little of the hound's ferocity. there are gods, she told herself, and there are true knights too. all the stories can't be lies. that night sansa dreamed of the riot again. the mob surged around her, shrieking, a maddened beast with a thousand faces. everywhere she turned she saw faces twisted into monstrous inhuman masks. she wept and told them she had never done them hurt, yet they dragged her from her horse all the same. no, she cried, no, please, don't, don't, but no one paid her any heed. she shouted for ser dontos, for her brothers, for her dead father and her dead wolf, for gallant ser loras who had given her a red rose once, but none of them came. she called for the heroes from the songs, for florian and ser ryam redwyne and prince aemon the dragonknight, but no one heard. women swarmed over her like weasels, pinching her legs and kicking her in the belly, and someone hit her in the face and she felt her teeth shatter. then she saw the bright glimmer of steel. the knife plunged into her belly and tore and tore and tore, until there was nothing left of her down there but shiny wet ribbons. when she woke, the pale light of morning was slanting through her window, yet she felt as sick and achy as if she had not slept at all. there was something sticky on her thighs. when she threw back the blanket and saw the blood, all she could think was that her dream had somehow come true. she remembered the knives inside her, twisting and ripping. she squirmed away in horror, kicking at the sheets and falling to the floor, breathing raggedly, naked, bloodied, and afraid. but as she crouched there, on her hands and knees, understanding came. no, please, sansa whimpered, please, no. she didn't want this happening to her, not now, not here, not now, not now, not now, not now. madness took hold of her. pulling herself up by the bedpost, she went to the basin and washed between her legs, scrubbing away all the stickiness. by the time she was done, the water was pink with blood. when her maidservants saw it they would know then she remembered the bedclothes. she rushed back to the bed and stared in horror at the dark red stain and the tale it told. all she could think was that she had to get rid of it, or else they'd see. she couldn't let them see, or they'd marry her to joffrey and make her lay with him. snatching up her knife, sana hacked at the sheet, cutting out the stain. if they ask me about the hole, what will i say? tears ran down her face. she pulled the torn sheet from the bed, and the stained blanket as well. i'll have to burn them. she balled up the evidence, stuffed it in the fireplace, drenched it in oil from her bedside lamp, and lit it afire. then she realized that the blood had soaked through the sheet into the featherbed, so she bundled that up as well, but it was big and cumbersome, hard to move. sansa could get only half of it into the fire. she was on her knees, struggling to shove the mattress into the flames as thick grey smoke eddied around her and filled the room, when the door burst open and she heard her maid gasp. in the end it took three of them to pull her away. and it was all for nothing. the bedclothes were burnt, but by the time they carried her off her thighs were bloody again. it was as if her own body had betrayed her to joffrey, unfurling a banner of lannister crimson for all the world to see. when the fire was out, they carried off the singed featherbed, fanned away the worst of the smoke, and brought up a tub. women came and went, muttering and looking at her strangely. they filled the tub with scalding hot water, bathed her and washed her hair and gave her a cloth to wear between her legs. by then sansa was calm again, and ashamed for her folly. the smoke had ruined most of her clothing. one of the women went away and came back with a green wool shift that was almost her size. it's not as pretty as your own things, but it will serve, she announced when she'd pulled it down over sansa's head. your shoes weren't burned, so at least you won't need to go barefoot to the queen. cersei lannister was breaking her fast when sansa was ushered into her solar. you may sit, the queen said graciously. are you hungry? she gestured at the table. there was porridge, honey, milk, boiled eggs, and crisp fried fish. the sight of the food made sansa feel ill. her tummy was tied in a knot. no, thank you, your grace. i don't blame you. between tyrion and lord stannis, everything i eat tastes of ash. and now you're setting fires as well. what did you hope to accomplish?  sansa lowered her head. the blood frightened me. the blood is the seal of your womanhood. lady catelyn might have prepared you. you've had your first flowering, no more. sansa had never felt less flowery. my lady mother told me, but i... i thought it would be different. different how? i don't know. less... less messy, and more magical. queen cersei laughed. wait until you birth a child, sansa. a woman's life is nine parts mess to one part magic, you'll learn that soon enough... and the parts that look like magic often turn out to be messiest of all. she took a sip of milk. so now you are a woman. do you have the least idea of what that means? it means that i am now fit to be wedded and bedded, said sansa, and to bear children for the king. the queen gave a wry smile. a prospect that no longer entices you as it once did, i can see. i will not fault you for that. joffrey has always been difficult. even his birth... i labored a day and a half to bring him forth. you cannot imagine the pain, sansa. i screamed so loudly that i fancied robert might hear me in the kingswood. his grace was not with you? robert? robert was hunting. that was his custom. whenever my time was near, my royal husband would flee to the trees with his huntsmen and hounds. when he returned he would present me with some pelts or a stag's head, and i would present him with a baby. not that i wanted him to stay, mind you. i had grand maester pycelle and an army of midwives, and i had my brother. when they told jaime he was not allowed in the birthing room, he smiled and asked which of them proposed to keep him out. joffrey will show you no such devotion, i fear. you could thank your sister for that, if she weren't dead. he's never been able to forget that day on the trident when you saw her shame him, so he shames you in turn. you're stronger than you seem, though- 1 expect you'll survive a bit of humiliation. i did. you may never love the king, but you'll love his children. i love his grace with all my heart, sansa said. the queen sighed. you had best learn some new lies, and quickly. lord stannis will not like that one, i promise you. the new high septon said that the gods will never permit lord stannis to win, since joffrey is the rightful king. a half smile flickered across the queen's face. robert's trueborn son and heir. though joff would cry whenever robert picked him up. his grace did not like that. his bastards had always gurgled at him happily, and sucked his finger when he put it in their little baseborn mouths. robert wanted smiles and cheers, always, so he went where he found them, to his friends and his whores. robert wanted to be loved. my brother tyrion has the same disease. do you want to be loved, sansa? everyone wants to be loved. i see flowering hasn't made you any brighter, said cersei. sansa, permit me to share a bit of womanly wisdom with you on this very special day. love is poison. a sweet poison, yes, but it will kill you all the same. they had been singing in the sept all morning, since the first report of enemy sails had reached the castle. the sound of their voices mingled with the whicker of horses, the clank of steel, and the groaning hinges of the great bronze gates to make a strange and fearful music. in the sept they sing for the mother's mercy but on the walls it's the warrior they pray to, and all in silence. she remembered how septa mordane used to tell them that the warrior and the mother were only two faces of the same great god. but if there is only one, whose prayers will be heard? ser meryn trant held the blood bay for joffrey to mount. boy and horse alike wore gilded mail and enameled crimson plate, with matching golden lions on their heads. the pale sunlight flashed off the golds and reds every time jo ff moved. bright, shining, and empty, sansa thought. the imp was mounted on a red stallion, armored more plainly than the king in battle gear that made him look like a little boy dressed up in his father's clothes. but there was nothing childish about the battle-axe slung below his shield. ser mandon moore rode at his side, white steel icy bright. when tyrion saw her he turned his horse her way. lady sansa, he called from the saddle, surely my sister has asked you to join the other highborn ladies in maegor's? she has, my lord, but king joffrey sent for me to see him off. i mean to visit the sept as well, to pray. i won't ask for whom. his mouth twisted oddly; if that was a smile, off with shouts and cheers. when the last was gone, a sudden stillness settled over the yard, like the hush before a storm. through the quiet, the singing pulled at her. sansa turned toward the sept. two stableboys followed, and one of the guards whose watch was ended. others fell in behind them. sansa had never seen the sept so crowded, nor so brightly lit; great shafts of rainbow-colored sunlight slanted down through the crystals in the high windows, and candles burned on every side, their little flames twinkling like stars. the mother's altar and the warrior's swam in light, but smith and crone and maid and father had their worshipers as well, and there were even a few flames dancing below the stranger's halfhuman face... for what was stannis baratheon, if not the stranger come to judge them? sansa visited each of the seven in turn, lighting a candle at each altar, and then found herself a place on the benches between a wizened old washer woman and a boy no older than rickon, dressed in the fine linen tunic of a knight's son. the old woman's hand was bony and hard with callus, the boy's small and soft, but it was good to have someone to hold on to. the air was hot and heavy, smelling of incense and sweat, crystal-kissed and candle-bright; it made her dizzy to breathe it. she knew the hymn; her mother had taught it to her once, a long time ago in winterfell. she joined her voice to theirs. gentle mother, font of mercy, save our sons from war, we pray, stay the swords and stay the arrows, let them know a better day. gentle mother, strength of women, help our daughters through this fray, soothe the wrath and tame the fury, teach us all a kinder way. across the city, thousands had jammed into the great sept of baelor on visenya's hill, and they would be singing too, their voices swelling out over the city, across the river, and up into the sky. surely the gods must hear us, she thought. sansa knew most of the hymns, and followed along on those she did not know as best she could. she sang along with grizzled old serving men and anxious young wives, with serving girls and soldiers, cooks and falconers, knights and knaves, squires and spit boys and nursing mothers. she sang with those inside the castle walls and those without, sang with all the city. she sang for mercy, for the living and the dead alike, for bran and rickon and robb, for her sister arya and her bastard brother jon snow, away off on the wall. she sang for her mother and her father, for her grandfather lord hoster and her uncle edmure tully, for her friend jeyne poole, for old drunken king robert, for septa mordane and ser dontos and jory cassel and maester luwin, for all the brave knights and soldiers who would die today, and for the children and the wives who would mourn them, and finally, toward the end, she even sang for tyrion the imp and for the hound. he is no true knight but he saved me all the same, she told the mother. save him if you can, and gentle the rage inside him. but when the septon climbed on high and called upon the gods to protect and defend their true and noble king, sansa got to her feet. the aisles were jammed with people. she had to shoulder through while the septon called upon the smith to lend strength to joffrey's sword and shield, the warrior to give him courage, the father to defend him in his need. let his sword break and his shield shatter, sansa thought coldly as she shoved out through the doors, let his courage fail him and every man desert him. a few guards paced along on the gatehouse battlements, but otherwise the castle seemed empty. sansa stopped and listened. away off, she could hear the sounds of battle. the singing almost drowned them out, but the sounds were there if you had the ears to hear: the deep moan of warhorns, the creak and thud of catapults flinging stones, the splashes and splinterings, the crackle of burning pitch and thrum of scorpions loosing their yard-long iron-headed shafts... and beneath it all, the cries of dying men. it was another sort of song, a terrible song. sansa pulled the hood of her cloak up over her ears, and hurried toward maegor's holdfast, the castle-within-a-castle where the queen had promised they would all be safe. at the foot of the drawbridge, she came upon lady tanda and her two daughters. falyse had arrived yesterday from castle stokeworth with a small troop of soldiers. she was trying to coax her sister onto the bridge, but lollys clung to her maid, sobbing, i don't want to, i don't want to, i don't want to. the battle is begun, lady tanda said in a brittle voice. i don't want to, i don't want to. there was no way sansa could avoid them. she greeted them courteously. may i be of help? lady tanda flushed with shame. no, my lady, but we thank you kindly. you must forgive my daughter, she has not been well. i don't want to. lollys clutched at her maid, a slender, pretty girl with short dark hair who looked as though she wanted nothing so much as to shove her mistress into the dry moat, onto those iron spikes. please, please, i don't want to. sansa spoke to her gently. we'll all be thrice protected inside, and there's to be food and drink and song as well. lollys gaped at her, mouth open. she had dull brown eyes that always seemed to be wet with tears. i don't want to. you have to, her sister falyse said sharply, and that is the end of it. shae, help me. they each took an elbow, and together half dragged and half carried lollys across the bridge. sansa followed with their mother. she's been sick, lady tanda said. if a babe can be termed a sickness, sansa thought. it was common gossip that lollys was with child. the two guards at the door wore the lion-crested helms and crimson cloaks of house lannister, but sansa knew they were only dressed-up sellswords. another sat at the foot of the stair-a real guard would have been standing, not sitting on a step with his halberd across his kneesbut he rose when he saw them and opened the door to usher them inside. the queen's ballroom was not a tenth the size of the castle's great hall, only half as big as the small hall in the tower of the hand, but it could still seat a hundred, and it made up in grace what it lacked in space. beaten silver mirrors backed every wall sconce, so the torches burned twice as bright; the walls were paneled in richly carved wood, and sweet-smelling rushes covered the floors. from the gallery above drifted down the merry strains of pipes and fiddle. a line of arched windows ran along the south wall, but they had been closed off with heavy draperies. thick velvet hangings admitted no thread of light, and would muffle the sound of prayer and war alike. it makes no matter, sansa thought. the war is with us. almost every highborn woman in the city sat at the long trestle tables, along with a handful of old men and young boys. the women were wives, daughters, mothers, and sisters. their men had gone out to fight lord stannis. many would not return. the air was heavy with the knowledge. as joffrey's betrothed, sansa had the seat of honor on the queen's right hand. she was climbing the dais when she saw the man standing in the shadows by the back wall. he wore a long hauberk of oiled black mail, and held his sword before him: her father's greatsword, ice, near as tall as he was. its point rested on the floor, and his hard bony fingers curled around the crossguard on either side of the grip. sansa's breath caught in her throat. ser ilyn payne seemed to sense her stare. he turned his gaunt, pox-ravaged face toward her. what is he doing here? she asked osfryd kettleblack. he captained the queen's new red cloak guard. osfryd grinned. her grace expects she'll have need of him before the night's done.  ser ilyn was the king's justice. there was only one service he might be needed for. whose head does she want? all rise for her grace, cersei of house lannister, queen regent and protector of the realm, the royal steward cried. cersei's gown was snowy linen, white as the cloaks of the kingsguard. her long dagged sleeves showed a lining of gold satin. masses of bright yellow hair tumbled to her bare shoulders in thick curls. around her slender neck hung a rope of diamonds and emeralds. the white made her look strangely innocent, almost maidenly, but there were points of color on her cheeks. be seated, the queen said when she had taken her place on the dais, and be welcome. osfryd kettleblack held her chair; a page performed the same service for sansa. you look pale, sansa, cersei observed. is your red flower still blooming? f yes. how apt. the men will bleed out there, and you in here. the queen signaled for the first course to be served. why is ser ilyn here? sansa blurted out. the queen glanced at the mute headsman. to deal with treason, and to defend us if need be. he was a knight before he was a headsman. she pointed her spoon toward the end of the hall, where the tall wooden doors had been closed and barred. when the axes smash down those doors, you may be glad of him. i would be gladder if it were the hound, sansa thought. harsh as he was, she did not believe sandor clegane would let any harm come to her. won't your guards protect us? and who will protect us from my guards? the queen gave osfryd a sideways look. loyal sellswords are rare as virgin whores. if the battle is lost my guards will trip on those crimson cloaks in their haste to rip them off. they'll steal what they can and flee, along with the serving men, washer women, and stableboys, all out to save their own worthless hides. do you have any notion what happens when a city is sacked, sansa? no, you wouldn't, would you? all you know of life you learned from singers, and there's such a dearth of good sacking songs. true knights would never harm women and children. the words rang hollow in her ears even as she said them. true knights. the queen seemed to find that wonderfully amusing. no doubt you're right. so why don't you just eat your broth like a good girl and wait for symeon star-eyes and prince aemon the dragonknight to come rescue you, sweetling. i'm sure it won't be very long now. the torches shimmered brightly against the hammered metal of the wall sconces, filling the queen's ballroom with silvery light. yet there was still darkness in that hall. sansa could see it in the pale eyes of ser ilyn payne, who stood by the back door still as stone, taking neither food nor wine. she could hear it in lord gyles's racking cough, and the whispered voice of osney kettleblack when he slipped in to bring cersei the tidings. sansa was finishing her broth when he came the first time, entering through the back. she glimpsed him talking to his brother osfryd. then he climbed the dais and knelt beside the high seat, smelling of horse, four long thin scratches on his cheek crusted with scabs, his hair falling down past his collar and into his eyes. for all his whispering, sansa could not help but hear. the fleets are locked in battle. some archers got ashore, but the hound's cut them to pieces, y'grace. your brother's raising his chain, i heard the signal. some drunkards down to flea bottom are smashing doors and climbing through windows. lord bywater's sent the gold cloaks to deal with them. baelor's sept is jammed full, everyone praying. and my son? the king went to baelor's to get the high septon's blessing. now he's walking the walls with the hand, telling the men to be brave, lifting their spirits as it were. cersei beckoned to her page for another cup of wine, a golden vintage from the arbor, fruity and rich. the queen was drinking heavily, but the wine only seemed to make her more beautiful; her cheeks were flushed, and her eyes had a bright, feverish heat to them as she looked down over the hall. eyes of wildfire, sansa thought. musicians played, jugglers juggled. moon boy lurched about the hall on stilts making mock of everyone, while ser dontos chased serving girls on his broomstick horse. the guests laughed, but it was a joyless laughter, the sort of laughter that can turn into sobbing in half a heartbeat. their bodies are here, but their thoughts are on the city walls, and their hearts as well. after the broth came a salad of apples, nuts, and raisins. at any other time, it might have made a tasty dish, but tonight all the food was flavored with fear. sansa was not the only one in the hall without an appetite. lord gyles was coughing more than he was eating, lollys stokeworth sat hunched and shivering, and the young bride of one of ser lancel's knights began to weep uncontrollably. the queen commanded maester frenken to put her to bed with a cup of dreamwine. tears, she said scornfully to sansa as the woman was led from the hall. the woman's weapon, my lady mother used to call them. the man's weapon is a sword. and that tells us all you need to know, doesn't it? men must be very brave, though, said sansa. to ride out and face swords and axes, everyone trying to kill you... jaime told me once that he only feels truly alive in battle and in bed. she lifted her cup and took a long swallow. her salad was untouched. i would sooner face any number of swords than sit helpless like this, pretending to enjoy the company of this flock of frightened hens. you asked them here, your grace. certain things are expected of a queen. they will be expected of you should you ever wed joffrey. best learn. the queen studied the wives, daughters, and mothers who filled the benches. of themselves the hens are nothing, but their cocks are important for one reason or another, and some may survive this battle. so it behooves me to give their women my protection. if my wretched dwarf of a brother should somehow manage to prevail, they will return to their husbands and fathers full of tales about how brave i was, how my courage inspired them and lifted their spirits, how i never doubted our victory even for a moment. and if the castle should fall? you'd like that, wouldn't you? cersei did not wait for a denial. if i'm not betrayed by my own guards, i may be able to hold here for a time. then i can go to the walls and offer to yield to lord stannis in person. that will spare us the worst. but if maegor's holdfast should fall before stannis can come up, why then, most of my guests are in for a bit of rape, i'd say. and you should never rule out mutilation, torture, and murder at times like these. sansa was horrified. these are women, unarmed, and gently born. their birth protects them, cersei admitted, though not as much as you'd think. each one's worth a good ransom, but after the madness of battle, soldiers often seem to want flesh more than coin. even so, a golden shield is better than none. out in the streets, the women won't be treated near as tenderly. nor will our servants. pretty things like that serving wench of lady tanda's could be in for a lively night, but don't imagine the old and the infirm and the ugly will be spared. enough drink will make blind washerwomen and reeking pig girls seem as comely as you, sweetling. me? try not to sound so like a mouse, sansa. you're a woman now, remember? and betrothed to my firstborn. the queen sipped at her wine. were it anyone else outside the gates, i might hope to beguile him. but this is stannis baratheon. i'd have a better chance of seducing his horse. she noticed the look on sansa's face, and laughed. have i shocked you, my lady? she leaned close. you little fool. tears are not a woman's only weapon. you've got another one between your legs, and you'd best learn to use it. you'll find men use their swords freely enough. both kinds of swords. sansa was spared the need to reply when two kettleblacks reentered the hall. ser osmund and his brothers had become great favorites about the castle; they were always ready with a smile and a jest, and got on with grooms and huntsmen as well as they did with knights and squires. with the serving wenches they got on best of all, it was gossiped. of late ser osmund had taken sandor clegane's place by joffrey's side, and sansa had heard the women at the washing well saying he was as strong as the hound, only younger and faster. if that was so, she wondered why she had never once heard of these kettleblacks before ser osmund was named to the kingsguard. osney was all smiles as he knelt beside the queen. the hulks have gone up, y'grace. the whole blackwater's awash with wildfire. a hundred ships burning, maybe more. and my son? he's at the mud gate with the hand and the kingsguard, y' grace. he spoke to the archers on the hoardings before, and gave them a few tips on handling a crossbow, he did. all agree, he's a right brave boy. he'd best remain a right live boy. cersei turned to his brother osfryd, who was taller, sterner, and wore a drooping black mustache. yes? osfryd had donned a steel halfhelm over his long black hair, and the look on his face was grim, y'grace, he said quietly, the boys caught a groom and two maidservants trying to sneak out a postern with three of the king's horses. the night's first traitors, the queen said, but not the last, i fear. have ser ilyn see to them, and put their heads on pikes outside the stables as a warning. as they left, she turned to sansa. another lesson you should learn, if you hope to sit beside my son. be gentle on a night like this and you'll have treasons popping up all about you like mushrooms after a hard rain. the only way to keep your people loyal is to make certain they fear you more than they do the enemy. i will remember, your grace, said sansa, though she had always heard that love was a surer route to the people's loyalty than fear. if i am ever a queen, i'll make them love me. crabclaw pies followed the salad. then came mutton roasted with leeks and carrots, served in trenchers of hollowed bread. lollys ate too fast, got sick, and retched all over herself and her sister. lord gyles coughed, drank, coughed, drank, and passed out. the queen gazed down in disgust to where he sprawled with his face in his trencher and his hand in a puddle of wine. the gods must have been mad to waste manhood on the likes of him, and i must have been mad to demand his release. osfryd kettleblack returned, crimson cloak swirling. there's folks gathering in the square, y'grace, asking to take refuge in the castle. not a mob, rich merchants and the like. command them to return to their homes, the queen said. if they won't go, have our crossbowmen kill a few. no sorties; i won't have the gates opened for any reason. as you command. he bowed and moved off. the queen's face was hard and angry. would that i could take a sword to their necks myself. her voice was starting to slur. when we were little, jaime and i were so much alike that even our lord father could not tell us apart. sometimes as a lark we would dress in each other's clothes and spend a whole day each as the other. yet even so, when jaime was given his first sword, there was none for me.'what do i get?' i remember asking. we were so much alike, i could never understand why they treated us so differently. jaime learned to fight with sword and lance and mace, while i was taught to smile and sing and please. he was heir to casterly rock, while i was to be sold to some stranger like a horse, to be ridden whenever my new owner liked, beaten whenever he liked, and cast aside in time for a younger filly. jaime's lot was to be glory and power, while mine was birth and moonblood. but you were queen of all the seven kingdoms, sansa said. when it comes to swords, a queen is only a woman after all. cersei' s wine cup was empty. the page moved to fill it again, but she turned it over and shook her head. no more. i must keep a clear head. the last course was goat cheese served with baked apples. the scent of cinnamon filled the hall as osney kettleblack slipped in to kneel once more between them. y' grace, he murmured. stannis has landed men on the tourney grounds, and there's more coming across. the mud gate's under attack, and they've brought a ram to the king's gate. the imp's gone out to drive them off. that will fill them with fear, the queen said dryly. he hasn't taken joff, i hope. no, y'grace, the king's with my brother at the whores, flinging antler men into the river. with the mud gate under assault? folly. tell ser osmund i want him out of there at once, it's too dangerous. fetch him back to the castle. the imp said- it's what i said that ought concern you. cersei's eyes narrowed. your brother will do as he's told, or i'll see to it that he leads the next sortie himself, and you'll go with him. after the meal had been cleared away, many of the guests asked leave to go to the sept. cersei graciously granted their request. lady tanda and her daughters were among those who fled. for those who remained, a singer was brought forth to fill the hall with the sweet music of the high harp. he sang of jonquil and florian, of prince aemon the dragonknight and his love for his brother's queen, of nymeria's ten thousand ships. they were beautiful songs, but terribly sad. several of the women began to weep, and sansa felt her own eyes growing moist. very good, dear. the queen leaned close. you want to practice those tears. you'll need them for king stannis. sansa shifted nervously. your grace? oh, spare me your hollow courtesies. matters must have reached a desperate strait out there if they need a dwarf to lead them, so you might as well take off your mask. i know all about your little treasons in the godswood. the godswood? don't look at ser dontos, don't, don't, sansa told herself. she doesn't know, no one knows, dontos promised me, my florian would never fail me. i've done no treasons. i only visit the godswood to pray. for stannis. or your brother, it's all the same. why else seek your father's gods? you're praying for our defeat. what would you call that, if not treason? i pray for joffrey, she insisted nervously. why, because he treats you so sweetly? the queen took a flagon of sweet plum wine from a passing serving girl and filled sansa's cup. drink, she commanded coldly. perhaps it will give you the courage to deal with truth for a change. sansa lifted the cup to her lips and took a sip. the wine was cloyingly sweet, but very strong. you can do better than that, cersei said. drain the cup, sansa. your queen commands you. it almost gagged her, but sansa emptied the cup, gulping down the thick sweet wine until her head was swimming. more? cersei asked. no. please. the queen looked displeased. when you asked about ser ilyn earlier, i lied to you. would you like to hear the truth, sansa? would you like to know why he's really here? she did not dare answer, but it did not matter. the queen raised a hand and beckoned, never waiting for a reply. sansa had not even seen ser ilyn return to the hall, but suddenly there he was, striding from the shadows behind the dais as silent as a cat. he carried ice unsheathed. her father had always cleaned the blade in the godswood after he took a man's head, sansa recalled, but ser ilyn was not so fastidious. there was blood drying on the rippling steel, the red already fading to brown. tell lady sansa why i keep you by us, said cersei. ser ilyn opened his mouth and emitted a choking rattle. his poxscarred face had no expression. he's here for us, he says, the queen said. stannis may take the city and he may take the throne, but i will not suffer him to judge me. i do not mean for him to have us alive. us? you heard me. so perhaps you had best pray again, sansa, and for a different outcome. the starks will have no joy from the fall of house lannister, i promise you. she reached out and touched sansa's hair, brushing it lightly away from her neck. when ser lancel lannister told the queen that the battle was lost, she turned her empty wine cup in her hands and said, tell my brother, ser. her voice was distant, as if the news were of no great interest to her. your brother's likely dead. ser lancel's surcoat was soaked with the blood seeping out under his arm. when he had arrived in the hall, the sight of him had made some of the guests scream. he was on the bridge of boats when it broke apart, we think. ser mandon's likely gone as well, and no one can find the hound. gods be damned, cersei, why did you have them fetch joffrey back to the castle? the gold cloaks are throwing down their spears and running, hundreds of them. when they saw the king leaving, they lost all heart. the whole blackwater's awash with wrecks and fire and corpses, but we could have held if- osney kettleblack pushed past him. there's fighting on both sides of the river now, y'grace. it may be that some of stannis's lords are fighting each other, no one's sure, it's all confused over there. the hound's gone, no one knows where, and ser balon's fallen back inside the city. the riverside's theirs. they're ramming at the king's gate again, and ser lancel's right, your men are deserting the walls and killing their own officers. there's mobs at the iron gate and the gate of the gods fighting to get out, and flea bottom's one great drunken riot. gods be good, sansa thought, it is happening, joffrey's lost his head and so have i. she looked for ser ilyn, but the king's justice was not to be seen. i can feel him, though. he's close, i'll not escape him, he'll have my head. strangely calm, the queen turned to his brother osfryd. raise the drawbridge and bar the doors. no one enters or leaves maegor's without my leave. what about them women who went to pray? they chose to leave my protection. let them pray; perhaps the gods will defend them. where's my son? the castle gatehouse. he wanted to command the crossbowmen. there's a mob howling outside, half of them gold cloaks who came with him when we left the mud gate. bring him inside maegor's now no! lancel was so angry he forgot to keep his voice down. heads turned toward them as he shouted, we'll have the mud gate all over again. let him stay where he is, he's the king- he's my son. cersei lannister rose to her feet. you claim to be a lannister as well, cousin, prove it. osfryd, why are you standing there? now means today. osfryd kettleblack hurried from the hall, his brother with him. many of the guests were rushing out as well. some of the women were weeping, some praying. others simply remained at the tables and called for more wine. cersei, ser lancel pleaded, if we lose the castle, joffrey will be killed in any case, you know that. let him stay, i'll keep him by me, i swear- get out of my way. cersei slammed her open palm into his wound. ser lancel cried out in pain and almost fainted as the queen swept from the room. she spared sansa not so much as a glance. she's forgotten me. ser ilyn will kill me and she won't even think about it. oh, gods, an old woman wailed. we're lost, the battle's lost, she's running. several children were crying. they can smell the fear. sansa found herself alone on the dais. should she stay here, or run after the queen and plead for her life? she never knew why she got to her feet, but she did. don't be afraid, she told them loudly. the queen has raised the drawbridge. this is the safest place in the city. there's thick walls, the moat, the spikes... what's happened? demanded a woman she knew slightly, the wife of a lesser lordling. what did osney tell her? is the king hurt, has the city fallen? tell us, someone else shouted, one woman asked about her father, another her son. sansa raised her hands for quiet. joffrey's come back to the castle. he's not hurt. they're still fighting, that's all i know, they're fighting bravely. the queen will be back soon. the last was a lie, but she had to soothe them. she noticed the fools standing under the galley. moon boy, make us laugh. moon boy did a cartwheel, and vaulted on top of a table. he grabbed up four wine cups and began to juggle them. every so often one of them would come down and smash him in the head. a few nervous laughs echoed through the hall. sansa went to ser lancel and knelt beside him. his wound was bleeding afresh where the queen had struck him. madness, he gasped. gods, the imp was right, was right... help him, sansa commanded two of the serving men. one just looked at her and ran, flagon and all. other servants were leaving the hall as well, but she could not help that. together, sansa and the serving man got the wounded knight back on his feet. take him to maester frenken. lancel was one of them, yet somehow she still could not bring herself to wish him dead. i am soft and weak and stupid, just as joffrey says. i should be killing him, not helping him. the torches had begun to burn low, and one or two had flickered out. no one troubled to replace them. cersei did not return. ser dontos climbed the dais while all eyes were on the other fool. go back to your bedchamber, sweet jonquil, he whispered. lock yourself in, you'll be safer there. i'll come for you when the battle's done. someone will come for me, sansa thought, but will it be you, or will it be ser ilyn? for a mad moment she thought of begging dontos to defend her. he had been a knight too, trained with the sword and sworn to defend the weak. no. he has not the courage, or the skill. i would only be killing him as well. it took all the strength she had in her to walk slowly from the queen's ballroom when she wanted so badly to run. when she reached the steps, she did run, up and around until she was breathless and dizzy. one of the guards knocked into her on the stair. a jeweled wine cup and a pair of silver candlesticks spilled out of the crimson cloak he'd wrapped them in and went clattering down the steps. he hurried after them, paying sansa no mind once he decided she was not going to try and take his loot. her bedchamber was black as pitch. sansa barred the door and fumbled through the dark to the window. when she ripped back the drapes, her breath caught in her throat. the southern sky was aswirl with glowing, shifting colors, the reflections of the great fires that burned below. baleful green tides moved against the bellies of the clouds, and pools of orange light spread out across the heavens. the reds and yellows of common flame warred against the emeralds and jades of wildfire, each color flaring and then fading, birthing armies of short-lived shadows to die again an instant later. green dawns gave way to orange dusks in half a heartbeat. the air itself smelled burnt, the way a soup kettle sometimes smelled if it was left on the fire too long and all the soup boiled away. embers drifted through the night air like swarms of fireflies. sansa backed away from the window, retreating toward the safety of her bed. i'll go to sleep, she told herself, and when i wake it will be a new day, and the sky will be blue again. the fighting will be done and someone will tell me whether i'm to live or die. lady, she whimpered softly, wondering if she would meet her wolf again when she was dead. then something stirred behind her, and a hand reached out of the dark and grabbed her wrist. sansa opened her mouth to scream, but another hand clamped down over her face, smothering her. his fingers were rough and callused, and sticky with blood. little bird. i knew you'd come. the voice was a drunken rasp. outside, a swirling lance of jade light spit at the stars, filling the room with green glare. she saw him for a moment, all black and green, the blood on his face dark as tar, his eyes glowing like a dog's in the sudden glare. then the light faded and he was only a hulking darkness in a stained white cloak. if you scream i'll kill you. believe that. he took his hand from her mouth. her breath was coming ragged. the hound had a flagon of wine on her bedside table. he took a long pull. don't you want to ask who's winning the battle, little bird? who? she said, too frightened to defy him. the hound laughed. i only know who's lost. me. he is drunker than i've ever seen him. he was sleeping in my bed. what does he want here? what have you lost? all. the burnt half of his face was a mask of dried blood. bloody dwarf. should have killed him. years ago. he's dead, they say. dead? no. bugger that. i don't want him dead. he cast the empty flagon aside. i want him burned. if the gods are good, they'll burn him, but i won't be here to see. i'm going. going? she tried to wriggle free, but his grasp was iron. the little bird repeats whatever she hears. going, yes. where will you go? away from here. away from the fires. go out the iron gate, i suppose. north somewhere, anywhere. you won't get out, sansa said. the queen's closed up maegor's, and the city gates are shut as well. not to me. i have the white cloak. and i have this. he patted the pommel of his sword. the man who tries to stop me is a dead man. unless he's on fire. he laughed bitterly. why did you come here? you promised me a song, little bird. have you forgotten? she didn't know what he meant. she couldn't sing for him now, here, with the sky aswirl with fire and men dying in their hundreds and their thousands. i can't, she said. let me go, you're scaring me. everything scares you. look at me. look at me. the blood masked the worst of his scars, but his eyes were white and wide and terrifying. the burnt corner of his mouth twitched and twitched again. sansa could smell him; a stink of sweat and sour wine and stale vomit, and over it all the reek of blood, blood, blood. i could keep you safe, he rasped. they're all afraid of me. no one would hurt you again, or i'd kill them. he yanked her closer, and for a moment she thought he meant to kiss her. he was too strong to fight. she closed her eyes, wanting it to be over, but nothing happened. still can't bear to look, can you? she heard him say. he gave her arm a hard wrench, pulling her around and shoving her down onto the bed. i'll have that song. florian and jonquil, you said. his dagger was out, poised at her throat. sing, little bird. sing for your little life. her throat was dry and tight with fear, and every song she had ever known had fled from her mind. please don't kill me, she wanted to scream, please don't. she could feel him twisting the point, pushing it into her throat, and she almost closed her eyes again, but then she remembered. it was not the song of florian and jonquil, but it was a song. her voice sounded small and thin and tremulous in her ears. gentle mother, font of mercy, save our sons from war, we pray, stay the swords and stay the arrows, let them know a better day. gentle mother, strength of women, help our daughters through this fray, soothe the wrath and tame the fury, teach us all a kinder way. she had forgotten the other verses. when her voice trailed off, she feared he might kill her, but after a moment the hound took the blade from her throat, never speaking. some instinct made her lift her hand and cup his cheek with her fingers. the room was too dark for her to see him, but she could feel the stickiness of the blood, and a wetness that was not blood. little bird, he said once more, his voice raw and harsh as steel on stone. then he rose from the bed. sansa heard cloth ripping, followed by the softer sound of retreating footsteps. when she crawled out of bed, long moments later, she was alone. she found his cloak on the floor, twisted up tight, the white wool stained by blood and fire. the sky outside was darker by then, with only a few pale green ghosts dancing against the stars. a chill wind was blowing, banging the shutters. sansa was cold. she shook out the torn cloak and huddled beneath it on the floor, shivering. how long she stayed there she could not have said, but after a time she heard a bell ringing, far off across the city. the sound was a deepthroated bronze booming, coming faster with each knell. sansa was wondering what it might mean when a second bell joined in, and a third, their voices calling across the hills and hollows, the alleys and towers, to every corner of king's landing. she threw off the cloak and went to her window. the first faint hint of dawn was visible in the east, and the red keep's own bells were ringing now, joining in the swelling river of sound that flowed from the seven crystal towers of the great sept of baelor. they had rung the bells when king robert died, she remembered, but this was different, no slow dolorous death knell but a joyful thunder. she could hear men shouting in the streets as well, and something that could only be cheers. it was ser dontos who brought her the word. he staggered through her open door, wrapped her in his flabby arms, and whirled her around and around the room, whooping so incoherently that sansa understood not a word of it. he was as drunk as the hound had been, but in him it was a dancing happy drunk. she was breathless and dizzy when he let her down. what is it? she clutched at a bedpost. what's happened? tell me!  it's done! done! done! the city is saved. lord stannis is dead , lord stannis is fled, no one knows, no one cares, his host is broken, the danger's done. slaughtered, scattered, or gone over, they say. oh, the bright banners! the banners, jonquil, the banners! do you have any wine? we ought to drink to this day, yes. it means you're safe, don't you see? tell me what's happened! sansa shook him. ser dontos laughed and hopped from one leg to the other, almost falling. they came up through the ashes while the river was burning. the river, stannis was neck deep in the river, and they took him from the rear. oh, to be a knight again, to have been part of it! his own men hardly fought, they say. some ran but more bent the knee and went over, shouting for lord renly! what must stannis have thought when he heard that? i had it from osney kettleblack who had it from ser osmund, but ser balon's back now and his men say the same, and the gold cloaks as well. we're delivered, sweetling! they came up the roseroad and along the riverbank, through all the fields stannis had burned, the ashes puffing up around their boots and turning all their armor grey, but oh! the banners must have been bright, the golden rose and golden lion and all the others, the marbrand tree and the rowan, tarly's huntsman and redwyne's grapes and lady oakheart's leaf. all the westermen, all the power of highgarden and casterly rock! lord tywin himself had their right wing on the north side of the river, with randyll tarly commanding the center and mace tyrell the left, but the vanguard won the fight. they plunged through stannis like a lance through a pumpkin, every man of them howling like some demon in steel. and do you know who led the vanguard? do you? do you? do you?  robb? it was too much to be hoped, but... it was lord renly! lord renly in his green armor, with the fires shimmering off his golden antlers! lord renly with his tall spear in his hand! they say he killed ser guyard morrigen himself in single combat, and a dozen other great knights as well. it was renly, it was renly, it was renly! oh! the banners, darling sansa! oh! to be a knight! the throne room was a sea of jewels, furs, and bright fabrics. lords and ladies filled the back of the hall and stood beneath the high windows, jostling like fishwives on a dock. the denizens of joffrey's court had striven to outdo each other today. jalabhar xho was all in feathers, a plumage so fantastic and extravagant that he seemed like to take flight. the high septon's crystal crown fired rainbows through the air every time he moved his head. at the council table, queen cersei shimmered in a cloth-of-gold gown slashed in burgundy velvet, while beside her varys fussed and simpered in a lilac brocade. moon boy and ser dontos wore new suits of motley, clean as a spring morning. even lady tanda and her daughters looked pretty in matching gowns of turquoise silk and vair, and lord gyles was coughing into a square of scarlet silk trimmed with golden lace. king joffrey sat above them all, amongst the blades and barbs of the iron throne. he was in crimson samite, his black mantle studded with rubies, on his head his heavy golden crown. squirming through a press of knights, squires, and rich townfolk, sansa reached the front of the gallery just as a blast of trumpets announced the entry of lord tywin lannister. he rode his warhorse down the length of the hall and dismounted before the iron throne. sansa had never seen such armor; all burnished red steel, inlaid with golden scrollwork and ornamentation. his rondels were sunbursts, the roaring lion that crowned his helm had ruby eyes, and a lioness on each shoulder fastened a cloth-of-gold cloak so long and heavy that it draped the hindquarters of his charger. even the horse's armor was gilded, and his bardings were shimmering crimson silk emblazoned with the lion of lannister. the lord of casterly rock made such an impressive figure that it was a shock when his destrier dropped a load of dung right at the base of the throne. joffrey had to step gingerly around it as he descended to embrace his grandfather and proclaim him savior of the city. sansa covered her mouth to hide a nervous smile. jo ff made a show of asking his grandfather to assume governance of the realm, and lord tywin solemnly accepted the responsibility, until your grace does come of age. then squires removed his armor and jo ff fastened the hand's chain of office around his neck. lord tywin took a seat at the council table beside the queen. after the destrier was led off and his homage removed, cersei nodded for the ceremonies to continue. a fanfare of brazen trumpets greeted each of the heroes as he stepped between the great oaken doors. heralds cried his name and deeds for all to hear, and the noble knights and highborn ladies cheered as lustily as cutthroats at a cockfight. pride of place was given to mace tyrell, the lord of highgarden, a once-powerful man gone to fat, yet still handsome. his sons followed him in; ser loras and his older brother ser garlan the gallant. the three dressed alike, in green velvet trimmed with sable. the king descended the throne once more to greet them, a great honor. he fastened about the throat of each a chain of roses wrought in soft yellow gold, from which hung a golden disc with the lion of lannister picked out in rubies. the roses support the lion, as the might of highgarden supports the realm, proclaimed joffrey. if there is any boon you would ask of me, ask and it shall be yours. and now it comes, thought sansa. your grace, said ser loras, i beg the honor of serving in your kingsguard, to defend you against your enemies. joffrey drew the knight of flowers to his feet and kissed him on his cheek. done, brother. lord tyrell bowed his head. there is no greater pleasure than to serve the king's grace. if i was deemed worthy to join your royal council, you would find none more loyal or true. joff put a hand on lord tyrelps shoulder and kissed him when he stood. your wish is granted. ser garlan tyrell, five years senior to ser loras, was a taller bearded version of his more famous younger brother. he was thicker about the chest and broader at the shoulders, and though his face was comely enough, he lacked ser loras's startling beauty. your grace, garlan said when the king approached him, i have a maiden sister, margaery, the delight of our house. she was wed to renly baratheon, as you know, but lord renly went to war before the marriage could be consummated, so she remains innocent. margaery has heard tales of your wisdom, courage, and chivalry, and has come to love you from afar. i beseech you to send for her, to take her hand in marriage, and to wed your house to mine for all time. king joffrey made a show of looking surprised. ser garlan, your sister's beauty is famed throughout the seven kingdoms, but i am promised to another. a king must keep his word. queen cersei got to her feet in a rustle of skirts. your grace, in the judgment of your small council, it would be neither proper nor wise for you to wed the daughter of a man beheaded for treason, a girl whose brother is in open rebellion against the throne even now. sire, your councillors beg you, for the good of your realm, set sansa stark aside. the lady margaery will make you a far more suitable queen. like a pack of trained dogs, the lords and ladies in the hall began to shout their pleasure. margaery, they called. give us margaery! and no traitor queens! tyrell! tyrell! joffrey raised a hand. i would like to heed the wishes of my people, mother, but i took a holy vow. the high septon stepped forward. your grace, the gods hold bethrothal solemn, but your father, king robert of blessed memory, made this pact before the starks of winterfell had revealed their falseness. their crimes against the realm have freed you from any promise you might have made. so far as the faith is concerned, there is no valid marriage contract'twixt you and sansa stark. a tumult of cheering filled the throne room, and cries of margaery, margaery erupted all around her. sansa leaned forward, her hands tight around the gallery's wooden rail. she knew what came next, but she was still frightened of what joffrey might say, afraid that he would refuse to release her even now, when his whole kingdom depended upon it. she felt as if she were back again on the marble steps outside the great sept of baelor, waiting for her prince to grant her father mercy, and instead hearing him command ilyn payne to strike off his head. please, she prayed fervently, make him say it, make him say it. lord tywin was looking at his grandson. jo ff gave him a sullen glance, shifted his feet, and helped ser garlan tyrell to rise. the gods are good. i am free to heed my heart. i will wed your sweet sister, and gladly, ser. he kissed ser garlan on a bearded cheek as the cheers rose all around them. sansa felt curiously light-headed. i am free. she could feel eyes upon her. i must not smile, she reminded herself. the queen had warned her; no matter what she felt inside, the face she showed the world must look distraught. i will not have my son humiliated, cersei said. do you hear me? yes. but if i'm not to be queen, what will become of me? that will need to be determined. for the moment, you shall remain here at court, as our ward. i want to go home. the queen was irritated by that. you should have learned by now, none of us get the things we want. i have, though, sansa thought. i am free of joffrey. i will not have to kiss him, nor give him my maidenhood, nor bear him children. let margaery tyrell have all that, poor girl. by the time the outburst died down, the lord of highgarden had been seated at the council table, and his sons had joined the other knights and lordlings beneath the windows. sansa tried to look forlorn and abandoned as other heroes of the battle of the blackwater were summoned forth to receive their rewards. paxter redwyne, lord of the arbor, marched down the length of the hall flanked by his twin sons horror and slobber, the former limping from a wound taken in the battle. after them followed lord mathis rowan in a snowy doublet with a great tree worked upon the breast in gold thread; lord randyll tarly, lean and balding, a greatsword across his back in a jeweled scabbard; ser kevan lannister, a thickset balding man with a close-trimmed beard; ser addam marbrand, coppery hair streaming to his shoulders; the great western lords lydden, crakehall, and brax. next came four of lesser birth who had distinguished themselves in the fighting: the one-eyed knight ser philip foote, who had slain lord bryce caron in single combat; the freerider lothor brune, who'd cut his way through half a hundred fossoway men-at-arms to capture ser jon of the green apple and kill ser bryan and ser edwyd of the red, thereby winning himself the name lothor apple-eater; willit, a grizzled man-atarms in the service of ser harys swyft, who'd pulled his master from beneath his dying horse and defended him against a dozen attackers; and a downycheeked squire named josmyn peckledon, who had killed two knights, wounded a third, and captured two more, though he could not have been more than fourteen. willit was borne in on a litter, so grievous were his wounds. ser kevan had taken a seat beside his brother lord tywin. when the heralds had finished telling of each hero's deeds, he rose. it is his grace's wish that these good men be rewarded for their valor. by his decree, ser philip shall henceforth be lord philip of house foote, and to him shall go all the lands, rights, and incomes of house caron. lothor brune to be raised to the estate of knighthood, and granted land and keep in the riverlands at war's end. to josmyn peckledon, a sword and suit of plate, his choice of any warhorse in the royal stables, and knighthood as soon as he shall come of age. and lastly, for goodman willit, a spear with a silver-banded haft, a hauberk of new-forged ringmail, and a full helm with visor. further, the goodman's sons shall be taken into the service of house lannister at casterly rock, the elder as a squire and the younger as a page, with the chance to advance to knighthood if they serve loyally and well. to all this, the king's hand and the small council consent. the captains of the king's warships wildwind, prince aemon, and river arrow were honored next, along with some under officers from godsgrace, lance, lady of silk, and ramshead. as near as sansa could tell, their chief accomplishment had been surviving the battle on the river, a feat that few enough could boast. hallyne the pyromancer and the masters of the alchemists' guild received the king's thanks as well, and hallyne was raised to the style of lord, though sansa noted that neither lands nor castle accompanied the title, which made the alchemist no more a true lord than varys was. a more significant lordship by far was granted to ser lancel lannister. joffrey awarded him the lands, castle, and rights of house darry, whose last child lord had perished during the fighting in the riverlands, leaving no trueborn heirs of lawful darry blood, but only a bastard cousin. ser lancel did not appear to accept the title; the talk was, his wound might cost him his arm or even his life. the imp was said to be dying as well, from a terrible cut to the head. when the herald called, lord petyr baelish, he came forth dressed all in shades of rose and plum, his cloak patterned with mockingbirds. she could see him smiling as he knelt before the iron throne. he looks so pleased. sansa had not heard of little finger doing anything especially heroic during the battle, but it seemed he was to be rewarded all the same. ser kevan got back to his feet. it is the wish of the king's grace that his loyal councillor petyr baelish be rewarded for faithful service to crown and realm. be it known that lord baelish is granted the castle of harrenhal with all its attendant lands and incomes, there to make his seat and rule henceforth as lord paramount of the trident. petyr baelish and his sons and grandsons shall hold and enjoy these honors until the end of time, and all the lords of the trident shall do him homage as their rightful liege. the king's hand and the small council consent. on his knees, littlefinger raised his eyes to king joffrey. i thank you humbly, your grace. i suppose this means i'll need to see about getting some sons and grandsons. joffrey laughed, and the court with him. lord paramount of the trident, sansa thought, and lord of harrenhal as well. she did not understand why that should make him so happy; the honors were as empty as the title granted to hallyne the pyromancer. harrenhal was cursed, everyone knew that, and the lannisters did not even hold it at present. besides, the lords of the trident were sworn to riverrun and house tully, and to the king in the north; they would never accept littlefinger as their liege. unless they are made to. unless my brother and my uncle and my grandfather are all cast down and killed. the thought made sansa anxious, but she told herself she was being silly. robb has beaten them every time. he'll beat lord baelish too, if he must. more than six hundred new knights were made that day. they had held their vigil in the great sept of baelor all through the night and crossed the city barefoot that morning to prove their humble hearts. now they came forward dressed in shifts of undyed wool to receive their knighthoods from the kingsguard. it took a long time, since only three of the brothers of the white sword were on hand to dub them. mandon moore had perished in the battle, the hound had vanished, aerys oakheart was in dome with princess myrcella, and jaime lannister was robb's captive, so the kingsguard had been reduced to balon swann, meryn trant, and osmund kettleblack. once knighted, each man rose, buckled on his swordbelt, and stood beneath the windows. some had bloody feet from their walk through the city, but they stood tall and proud all the same, it seemed to sansa. by the time all the new knights had been given their sers the hall was growing restive, and none more so than joffrey. some of those in the gallery had begun to slip quietly away, but the notables on the floor were trapped, unable to depart without the king's leave. judging by the way he was fidgeting atop the iron throne, joff would willingly have granted it, but the day's work was far from done. for now the coin was turned over, and the captives were ushered in. there were great lords and noble knights in that company too: sour old lord celtigar, the red crab; ser bonifer the good; lord estermont, more ancient even than celtigar; lord varner, who hobbled the length of the hall on a shattered knee, but would accept no help; ser mark mullendore, grey- faced, his left arm gone to the elbow; fierce red ronnet of griffin roost; ser dermot of the rainwood; lord willurn and his sons josua and elyas; ser jon fossoway; ser timon the scrapesword; aurane, the bastard of driftmark; lord staedmon, called pennylover; hundreds of others. those who had changed their allegiance during the battle needed only to swear fealty to joffrey, but the ones who had fought for stannis until the bitter end were compelled to speak. their words decided their fate. if they begged forgiveness for their treasons and promised to serve loyally henceforth, joffrey welcomed them back into the king's peace and restored them to all their lands and rights. a handful remained defiant, however. do not imagine this is done, boy, warned one, the bastard son of some flo rent or other. the lord of light protects king stannis, now and always. all your swords and all your scheming shall not save you when his hour comes. your hour is come right now. joffrey beckoned to ser ilyn payne to take the man out and strike his head off. but no sooner had that one been dragged away than a knight of solemn mien with a fiery heart on his surcoat shouted out, stannis is the true king! a monster sits the iron throne, an abomination born of incest! be silent, ser kevan lannister bellowed. the knight raised his voice instead. joffrey is the black worm eating the heart of the realm! darkness was his father, and death his mother! destroy him before he corrupts you all! destroy them all, queen whore and king worm, vile dwarf and whispering spider, the false flowers. save yourselves! one of the gold cloaks knocked the man off his feet, but he continued to shout. the scouring fire will come! king stannis will return!  joffrey lurched to his feet. i'm king! kill him! kill him now! i command it. he chopped down with his hand, a furious, angry gesture... and screeched in pain when his arm brushed against one of the sharp metal fangs that surrounded him. the bright crimson samite of his sleeve turned a darker shade of red as his blood soaked through it. mother! he wailed. with every eye on the king, somehow the man on the floor wrested a spear away from one of the gold cloaks, and used it to push himself back to his feet. the throne denies him! he cried. he is no king! cersei was running toward the throne, but lord tywin remained still as stone. he had only to raise a finger, and ser meryn trant moved forward with drawn sword. the end was quick and brutal. the gold cloaks seized the knight by the arms. no king! he cried again as ser meryn drove the point of his longsword through his chest. jo ff fell into his mother's arms. three maesters came hurrying forward, to bundle him out through the king's door. then everyone began talking at once. when the gold cloaks dragged off the dead man, he left a trail of bright blood across the stone floor. lord baelish stroked his beard while varys whispered in his ear. will they dismiss us now, sansa wondered. a score of captives still waited, though whether to pledge fealty or shout curses, who could say? lord tywin rose to his feet. we continue, he said in a clear strong voice that silenced the murmurs. those who wish to ask pardon for their treasons may do so. we will have no more follies. he moved to the iron throne and there seated himself on a step, a mere three feet off the floor. the light outside the windows was fading by the time the session drew to a close. sansa felt limp with exhaustion as she made her way down from the gallery. she wondered how badly joffrey had cut himself. they say the iron throne can be perilous cruel to those who were not meant to sit it. back in the safety of her own chambers, she hugged a pillow to her face to muffle a squeal of joy. oh, gods be good, he did it, he put me aside in front of everyone. when a serving girl brought her supper, she almost kissed her. there was hot bread and fresh-churned butter, a thick beef soup, capon and carrots, and peaches in honey. even the food tastes sweeter, she thought. come dark, she slipped into a cloak and left for the godswood. ser osmund kettleblack was guarding the drawbridge in his white armor. sansa tried her best to sound miserable as she bid him a good evening. from the way he leered at her, she was not sure she had been wholly convincing. dontos waited in the leafy moonlight. why so sadface? sansa asked him gaily. you were there, you heard. joff put me aside, he's done with me, he's...  he took her hand. oh, jonquil, my poor jonquil, you do not understand. done with you? they've scarcely begun. her heart sank. what do you mean? the queen will never let you go, never. you are too valuable a hostage. and joffrey... sweet ling, he is still king. if he wants you in his bed, he will have you, only now it will be bastards he plants in your womb instead of trueborn sons. no, sansa said, shocked. he let me go, he...  ser dontos planted a slobbery kiss on her ear. be brave. i swore to see you home, and now i can. the day has been chosen. when? sansa asked. when will we go? the night of joffrey' s wedding. after the feast. all the necessary arrangements have been made. the red keep will be full of strangers. half the court will be drunk and the other half will be helping joffrey bed his bride. for a little while, you will be forgotten, and the confusion will be our friend. the wedding won't be for a moon's turn yet. margaery tyrell is at highgarden, they've only now sent for her. you've waited so long, be patient awhile longer. here, i have something for you. ser dontos fumbled in his pouch and drew out a silvery spiderweb, dangling it between his thick fingers. it was a hair net of fine-spun silver, the strands so thin and delicate the net seemed to weigh no more than a breath of air when sansa took it in her fingers. small gems were set wherever two strands crossed, so dark they drank the moonlight. what stones are these? black amethysts from asshai. the rarest kind, a deep true purple by daylight. it's very lovely, sansa said, thinking, it is a ship i need, not a net for my hair. lovelier than you know, sweet child. it's magic, you see. it's justice you hold. it's vengeance for your father. dontos leaned close and kissed her again. it's home. 