there was no safe anchorage at pyke, but theon greyjoy wished to look on his father's castle from the sea, to see it as he had seen it last, ten years before, when robert baratheon's war galley had borne him away to be a ward of eddard stark. on that day he had stood beside the rail, listening to the stroke of the oars and the pounding of the master's drum while he watched pyke dwindle in the distance. now he wanted to see it grow larger, to rise from the sea before him. obedient to his wishes, the myraham beat her way past the point with her sails snapping and her captain cursing the wind and his crew and the follies of highborn lordlings. theon drew the hood of his cloak up against the spray, and looked for home. the shore was all sharp rocks and glowering cliffs, and the castle seemed one with the rest, its towers and walls and bridges quarried from the same grey-black stone, wet by the same salt waves, festooned with the same spreading patches of dark green lichen, speckled by the droppings of the same seabirds. the point of land on which the greyjoys had raised their fortress had once thrust like a sword into the bowels of the ocean, but the waves had hammered at it day and night until the land broke and shattered, thousands of years past. all that remained were three bare and barren islands and a dozen towering stacks of rock that rose from the water like the pillars of some sea god's temple, while the angry waves foamed and crashed among them. drear, dark, forbidding, pyke stood atop those islands and pillars, almost a part of them, its curtain wall closing off the headland around the foot of the great stone bridge that leapt from the clifftop to the largest islet, dominated by the massive bulk of the great keep. farther out were the kitchen keep and the bloody keep, each on its own island. towers and outbuildings clung to the stacks beyond, linked to each other by covered archways when the pillars stood close, by long swaying walks of wood and rope when they did not. the sea tower rose from the outmost island at the point of the broken sword, the oldest part of the castle, round and tall, the sheer-sided pillar on which it stood half-eaten through by the endless battering of the waves. the base of the tower was white from centuries of salt spray, the upper stories green from the lichen that crawled over it like a thick blanket, the jagged crown black with soot from its nightly watchfire. above the sea tower snapped his father's banner. the myraham was too far off for theon to see more than the cloth itself, but he knew the device it bore: the golden kraken of house greyjoy, arms writhing and reaching against a black field. the banner streamed from an iron mast, shivering and twisting as the wind gusted, like a bird struggling to take flight. and here at least the direwolf of stark did not fly above, casting its shadow down upon the greyjoy kraken. theon had never seen a more stirring sight. in the sky behind the castle, the fine red tail of the comet was visible through thin, scuttling clouds. all the way from riverrun to seagard, the mallisters had argued about its meaning. it is my comet, theon told himself, sliding a hand into his fur-lined cloak to touch the oilskin pouch snug in its pocket. inside was the letter robb stark had given him, paper as good as a crown. does the castle look as you remember it, milord? the captain's daughter asked as she pressed herself against his arm. it looks smaller, theon confessed, though perhaps that is only the distance. the myraham was a fat-bellied southron merchanter up from oldtown, carrying wine and cloth and seed to trade for iron ore. her captain was a fat-bellied southron merchanter as well, and the stony sea that foamed at the feet of the castle made his plump lips quiver, so he stayed well out, farther than theon would have liked. an ironborn captain in a longship would have taken them along the cliffs and under the high bridge that spanned the gap between the gatehouse and the great keep, but this plump oldtowner had neither the craft, the crew, nor the courage to attempt such a thing. so they sailed past at a safe distance, and theon must content himself with seeing pyke from afar. even so, the myraham had to struggle mightily to keep itself off those rocks. it must be windy there, the captain's daughter observed. he laughed. windy and cold and damp. a miserable hard place, in truth... but my lord father once told me that hard places breed hard men, and hard men rule the world. the captain's face was as green as the sea when he came bowing up to theon and asked, may we make for port now, milord? you may, theon said, a faint smile playing about his lips. the promise of gold had turned the oldtowner into a shameless lickspittle. it would have been a much different voyage if a longship from the islands had been waiting at seagard as he'd hoped. ironborn captains were proud and willful, and did not go in awe of a man's blood. the islands were too small for awe, and a longship smaller still. if every captain was a king aboard his own ship, as was often said, it was small wonder they named the islands the land often thousand kings. and when you have seen your kings shit over the rail and turn green in a storm, it was hard to bend the knee and pretend they were gods. the drowned god makes men, old king urron redhand had once said, thousands of years ago, but it's men who make crowns. a longship would have made the crossing in half the time as well. the myraham was a wallowing tub, if truth be told, and he would not care to be aboard her in a storm. still, theon could not be too unhappy. he was here, undrowned, and the voyage had offered certain other amusements. he put an arm around the captain's daughter. summon me when we make lordsport, he told her father. we'll be below, in my cabin. he led the girl away aft, while her father watched them go in sullen silence. the cabin was the captain's, in truth, but it had been turned over to theon's use when they sailed from seagard. the captain's daughter had not been turned over to his use, but she had come to his bed willingly enough all the same. a cup of wine, a few whispers, and there she was. the girl was a shade plump for his taste, with skin as splotchy as oatmeal, but her breasts filled his hands nicely and she had been a maiden the first time he took her. that was surprising at her age, but theon found it diverting. he did not think the captain approved, and that was amusing as well, watching the man struggle to swallow his outrage while performing his courtesies to the high lord, the rich purse of gold he'd been promised never far from his thoughts. as theon shrugged out of his wet cloak, the girl said, you must be so happy to see your home again, milord. how many years have you been away?  ten, or close as makes no matter, he told her. i was a boy often when i was taken to winterfell. as a ward of eddard stark. a ward in name, a hostage in truth. half his days a hostage... but no longer. his life was his own again, and nowhere a stark to be seen. he drew the captain's daughter close and kissed her on her ear. take off your cloak. she dropped her eyes, suddenly shy, but did as he bid her. when the heavy garment, sodden with spray, fell from her shoulders to the deck, she gave him a little bow and smiled anxiously. she looked rather stupid when she smiled, but he had never required a woman to be clever. come here, he told her. she did. i have never seen the iron islands. count yourself fortunate. theon stroked her hair, it was fine and dark, though the wind had made a tangle of it. the islands are stern and stony places, scant of comfort and bleak of prospect. death is never far here, and life is mean and meager. men spend their nights drinking ale and arguing over whose lot is worse, the fisherfolk who fight the sea or the farmers who try and scratch a crop from the poor thin soil. if truth be told, the miners have it worse than either, breaking their backs down in the dark, and for what? iron, lead, tin, those are our treasures. small wonder the ironmen of old turned to raiding. the stupid girl did not seem to be listening. i could go ashore with you, she said. i would, if it please you... you could go ashore, theon agreed, squeezing her breast, but not with me, i fear. i'd work in your castle, milord. i can clean fish and bake bread and churn butter. father says my peppercrab stew is the best he's ever tasted. you could find me a place in your kitchens and i could make you peppercrab stew. and warm my bed by night? he reached for the laces of her bodice and began to undo them, his fingers deft and practiced. once i might have carried you home as a prize, and kept you to wife whether you willed it or no. the ironmen of old did such things. a man had his rock wife, his true bride, ironborn like himself, but he had his salt wives too, women captured on raids. the girl's eyes grew wide, and not because he had bared her breasts. i would be your salt wife, milord. i fear those days are gone. theon's finger circled one heavy teat, spiraling in toward the fat brown nipple. no longer may we ride the wind with fire and sword, taking what we want. now we scratch in the ground and toss lines in the sea like other men, and count ourselves lucky if we have salt cod and porridge enough to get us through a winter. he took her nipple in his mouth, and bit it until she gasped. you can put it in me again, if it please you, she whispered in his ear as he sucked. when he raised his head from her breast, the skin was dark red where his mouth had marked her. it would please me to teach you something new. unlace me and pleasure me with your mouth. with my mouth? his thumb brushed lightly over her full lips. it's what those lips were made for, sweetling. if you were my salt wife, you'd do as i command. she was timid at first, but learned quickly for such a stupid girl, which pleased him. her mouth was as wet and sweet as her cunt, and this way he did not have to listen to her mindless prattle. once i would have kept her as a salt wife in truth, he thought to himself as he slid his fingers through her tangled hair. once. when we still kept the old way, lived by the axe instead of the pick, taking what we would, be it wealth, women, or glory. in those days, the ironborn did not work mines; that was labor for the captives brought back from the hostings, and so too the sorry business of farming and tending goats and sheep. war was an ironman's proper trade. the drowned god had made them to reave and rape, to carve out kingdoms and write their names in fire and blood and song. aegon the dragon had destroyed the old way when he burned black harren, gave harren's kingdom back to the weakling rivermen, and reduced the iron islands to an insignificant backwater of a much greater realm. yet the old red tales were still told around driftwood fires and smoky hearths all across the islands, even behind the high stone halls of pyke. theon's father numbered among his titles the style of lord reaper, and the greyjoy words boasted that we do not sow. it had been to bring back the old way more than for the empty vanity of a crown that lord balon had staged his great rebellion. robert baratheon had written a bloody end to that hope, with the help of his friend eddard stark, but both men were dead now. mere boys ruled in their stead, and the realm that aegon the conqueror had forged was smashed and sundered. this is the season, theon thought as the captain's daughter slid her lips up and down the length of him, the season, the year, the day, and i am the man. he smiled crookedly, wondering what his father would say when theon told him that he, the last-born, babe and hostage, he had succeeded where lord balon himself had failed. his climax came on him sudden as a storm, and he filled the girl's mouth with his seed. startled, she tried to pull away, but theon held her tight by the hair. afterward, she crawled up beside him. did i please milord?  well enough, he told her. it tasted salty, she murmured. like the sea? she nodded. i have always loved the sea, milord. as i have, he said, rolling her nipple idly between his fingers. it was true. the sea meant freedom to the men of the iron islands. he had forgotten that until the myraham had raised sail at seagard. the sounds brought old feelings back; the creak of wood and rope, the captain's shouted commands, the snap of the sails as the wind filled them, each as familiar as the beating of his own heart, and as comforting. i must remember this, theon vowed to himself. i must never go far from the sea again. take me with you, milord, the captain's daughter begged. i don't need to go to your castle. i can stay in some town, and be your salt wife. she reached out to stroke his cheek. theon greyjoy pushed her hand aside and climbed off the bunk. my place is pyke, and yours is on this ship. i can't stay here now. he laced up his breeches. why not? my father, she told him. once you're gone, he'll punish me, milord. he'll call me names and hit me. theon swept his cloak off its peg and over his shoulders. fathers are like that, he admitted as he pinned the folds with a silver clasp. tell him he should be pleased. as many times as i've fucked you, you're likely with child. it's not every man who has the honor of raising a king's bastard. she looked at him stupidly, so he left her there. the myraham was rounding a wooded point. below the pine-clad bluffs, a dozen fishing boats were pulling in their nets. the big cog stayed well out from them, tacking. theon moved to the bow for a better view. he saw the castle first, the stronghold of the botleys. when he was a boy it had been timber and wattle, but robert baratheon had razed that structure to the ground. lord sawane had rebuilt in stone, for now a small square keep crowned the hill. pale green flags drooped from the squat corner towers, each emblazoned with a shoal of silvery fish. beneath the dubious protection of the fish-ridden little castle lay the village of lordsport, its harbor aswarm with ships. when last he'd seen lordsport, it had been a smoking wasteland, the skeletons of burnt longships and smashed galleys littering the stony shore like the bones of dead leviathans, the houses no more than broken walls and cold ashes. after ten years, few traces of the war remained. the smallfolk had built new hovels with the stones of the old, and cut fresh sod for their roofs. a new inn had risen beside the landing, twice the size of the old one, with a lower story of cut stone and two upper stories of timber. the sept beyond had never been rebuilt, though; only a seven-sided foundation remained where it had stood. robert baratheon's fury had soured the ironmen's taste for the new gods, it would seem. theon was more interested in ships than gods. among the masts of countless fishing boats, he spied a tyroshi trading galley off-loading beside a lumbering ibbenese cog with her black-tarred hull. a great number of longships, fifty or sixty at the least, stood out to sea or lay beached on the pebbled shore to the north. some of the sails bore devices from the other islands; the blood moon of wynch, lord goodbrother's banded black warhorn harlaw's silver scythe. theon searched for his uncle euron's silence. of that lean and terrible red ship he saw no sign, but his father's great kraken was there, her bow ornamented with a grey iron ram in the shape of its namesake. had lord balon anticipated him and called the greyjoy banners? his hand went inside his cloak again, to the oilskin pouch. no one knew of his letter but robb stark; they were no fools, to entrust their secrets to a bird. still, lord balon was no fool either. he might well have guessed why his son was coming home at long last, and acted accordingly. the thought did not please him. his father's war was long done, and lost. this was theon's hour-his plan, his glory, and in time his crown. yet if the longships are hosting... it might be only a caution, now that he thought on it. a defensive move, lest the war spill out across the sea. old men were cautious by nature. his father was old now, and so too his uncle victarion, who commanded the iron fleet. his uncle euron was a different song, to be sure, but the silence did not seem to be in port. it's all for the good, theon told himself. this way, i shall be able to strike all the more quickly. as the myraham made her way landward, theon paced the deck restlessly, scanning the shore. he had not thought to find lord balon himself at quayside, but surely his father would have sent someone to meet him. sylas sourmouth the steward, lord botley, perhaps even dagmer cleftjaw. it would be good to look on dagmer's hideous old face again. it was not as though they had no word of his arrival. robb had sent ravens from riverrun, and when they'd found no longship at seagard, jason mallister had sent his own birds to pyke, supposing that robb's were lost. yet he saw no familiar faces, no honor guard waiting to escort him from lordsport to pyke, only smallfolk going about their small business. shorehands rolled casks of wine off the tyroshi trader, fisherfolk cried the day's catch, children ran and played. a priest in the seawater robes of the drowned god was leading a pair of horses along the pebbled shore, while above him a slattern leaned out a window in the inn, calling out to some passing ibbenese sailors. a handful of lordsport merchants had gathered to meet the ship. they shouted questions as the myraham was tying up. we're out of oldtown, the captain called down, bearing apples and oranges, wines from the arbor, feathers from the summer isles. i have pepper, woven leathers, a bolt of myrish lace, mirrors for milady, a pair of oldtown woodharps sweet as any you ever heard. the gangplank descended with a creak and a thud. and i've brought your heir back to you. the lordsport men gazed on theon with blank, bovine eyes, and he realized that they did not know who he was. it made him angry. he pressed a golden dragon into the captain's palm. have your men bring my things. without waiting for a reply, he strode down the gangplank. innkeeper, he barked, i require a horse. as you say, m'lord, the man responded, without so much as a bow. he had forgotten how bold the ironborn could be. happens as i have one might do. where would you be riding, m'lord? pyke. the fool still did not know him. he should have worn his good doublet, with the kraken embroidered on the breast. you'll want to be off soon, to reach pyke afore dark, the innkeeper said. my boy will go with you and show you the way. your boy will not be needed, a deep voice called, nor your horse. i shall see my nephew back to his father's house. the speaker was the priest he had seen leading the horses along the shoreline. as the man approached, the smallfolk bent the knee, and theon heard the innkeeper murmur, damphair. tall and thin, with fierce black eyes and a beak of a nose, the priest was garbed in mottled robes of green and grey and blue, the swirling colors of the drowned god. a waterskin hung under his arm on a leather strap, and ropes of dried seaweed were braided through his waist-long black hair and untrimmed beard. a memory prodded at theon. in one of his rare curt letters, lord balon had written of his youngest brother going down in a storm, and turning holy when he washed up safe on shore. uncle aeron? he said doubtfully. nephew theon, the priest replied. your lord father bid me fetch you. come. in a moment, uncle. he turned back to the myraham. my things, he commanded the captain. a sailor fetched him down his tall yew bow and quiver of arrows, but it was the captain's daughter who brought the pack with his good clothing. milord. her eyes were red. when he took the pack, she made as if to embrace him, there in front of her own father and his priestly uncle and half the island. theon turned deftly aside. you have my thanks. please, she said, i do love you well, milord. i must go. he hurried after his uncle, who was already well down the pier. theon caught him with a dozen long strides. i had not looked for you, uncle. after ten years, i thought perhaps my lord father and lady mother might come themselves, or send dagmer with an honor guard. it is not for you to question the commands of the lord reaper of pyke. the priest's manner was chilly, most unlike the man theon remembered. aeron greyjoy had been the most amiable of his uncles, feckless and quick to laugh, fond of songs, ale, and women. as to dagmer, the cleftiaw is gone to old wyk at your father's behest, to roust the stonehouses and the drumms. to what purpose? why are the longships hosting? why have longships ever hosted? his uncle had left the horses tied up in front of the waterside inn. when they reached them, he turned to theon. tell me true, nephew. do you pray to the wolf gods now? theon seldom prayed at all, but that was not something you confessed to a priest, even your father's own brother. ned stark prayed to a tree. no, i care nothing for stark's gods. good. kneel. the ground was all stones and mud. uncle, i- kneel. or are you too proud now, a lordling of the green lands come among us? theon knelt. he had a purpose here, and might need aeron' s help to achieve it. a crown was worth a little mud and horseshit on his breeches, he supposed. bow your head. lifting the skin, his uncle pulled the cork and directed a thin stream of seawater down upon theon's head. it drenched his hair and ran over his forehead into his eyes. sheets washed down his cheeks, and a finger crept under his cloak and doublet and down his back, a cold rivulet along his spine. the salt made his eyes burn, until it was all he could do not to cry out. he could taste the ocean on his lips. let theon your servant be born again from the sea, as you were, aeron greyjoy intoned. bless him with salt, bless him with stone, bless him with steel. nephew, do you still know the words? what is dead may never die, theon said, remembering. what is dead may never die, his uncle echoed, but rises again, harder and stronger. stand. theon stood, blinking back tears from the salt in his eyes. wordless, his uncle corked the waterskin, untied his horse, and mounted. theon did the same. they set off together, leaving the inn and the harbor behind them, up past the castle of lord botley into the stony hills. the priest ventured no further word. i have been half my life away from home, theon ventured at last. will i find the islands changed? men fish the sea, dig in the earth, and die. women birth children in blood and pain, and die. night follows day. the winds and tides remain. the islands are as our god made them. gods, he has grown grim, theon thought. will i find my sister and my lady mother at pyke? you will not. your mother dwells on harlaw, with her own sister. it is less raw there, and her cough troubles her. your sister has taken black wind to great wyk, with messages from your lord father. she will return e'er long, you may be sure. theon did not need to be told that black wind was asha's longship. he had not seen his sister in ten years, but that much he knew of her. odd that she would call it that, when robb stark had a wolf named grey wind. stark is grey and greyjoy's black, he murmured, smiling, but it seems we're both windy. the priest had nothing to say to that. and what of you, uncle? theon asked. you were no priest when i was taken from pyke. i remember how you would sing the old reaving songs standing on the table with a horn of ale in hand. young i was, and vain, aeron greyjoy said, but the sea washed my follies and my vanities away. that man drowned, nephew. his lungs filled with seawater, and the fish ate the scales off his eyes. when i rose again, i saw clearly. he is as mad as he is sour. theon had liked what he remembered of the old aeron greyjoy. uncle, why has my father called his swords and sails? doubtless he will tell you at pyke. i would know his plans now. from me, you shall not. we are commanded not to speak of this to any man. even to me? theon's anger flared. he'd led men in war, hunted with a king, won honor in tourney melees, ridden with brynden blackfish and greatjon umber, fought in the whispering wood, bedded more girls than he could name, and yet this uncle was treating him as though he were still a child often. if my father makes plans for war, i must know of them. i am not'any man,' i am heir to pyke and the iron islands. as to that, his uncle said, we shall see. the words were a slap in the face. we shall see- my brothers are both dead. i am my lord father's only living son. your sister lives. asha, he thought, confounded. she was three years older than theon, yet still... a woman may inherit only if there is no male heir in the direct line, he insisted loudly. i will not be cheated of my rights, i warn you. his uncle grunted. you warn a servant of the drowned god, boy? you have forgotten more than you know. and you are a great fool if you believe your lord father will ever hand these holy islands over to a stark. now be silent. the ride is long enough without your magpie chatterings. theon held his tongue, though not without struggle. so that is the way of it, he thought. as if ten years in winterfell could make a stark. lord eddard had raised him among his own children, but theon had never been one of them. the whole castle, from lady stark to the lowliest kitchen scullion, knew he was hostage to his father's good behavior, and treated him accordingly. even the bastard jon snow had been accorded more honor than he had. lord eddard had tried to play the father from time to time, but to theon he had always remained the man who'd brought blood and fire to pyke and taken him from his home. as a boy, he had lived in fear of stark's stern face and great dark sword. his wife was, if anything, even more distant and suspicious. as for their children, the younger ones had been mewling babes for most of his years at winterfell. only robb and his baseborn half brother jon snow had been old enough to be worth his notice. the bastard was a sullen boy, quick to sense a slight, jealous of theon's high birth and robb's regard for him. for robb himself, theon did have a certain affection, as for a younger brother... but it would be best not to mention that. in pyke, it would seem, the old wars were still being fought. that ought not surprise him. the iron islands lived in the past; the present was too hard and bitter to be borne. besides, his father and uncles were old, and the old lords were like that; they took their dusty feuds to the grave, forgetting nothing and forgiving less. it had been the same with the mallisters, his companions on the ride from riverrun to seagard. patrek mallister was not too ill a fellow; they shared a taste for wenches, wine, and hawking. but when old lord jason saw his heir growing overly fond of theon's company, he had taken patrek aside to remind him that seagard had been built to defend the coast against reavers from the iron islands, the greyjoys of pyke chief among them. their booming tower was named for its immense bronze bell, rung of old to call the townsfolk and farmhands into the castle when longships were sighted on the western horizon. never mind that the bell has been rung just once in three hundred years, patrek had told theon the day after, as he shared his father's cautions and a jug of green-apple wine. when my brother stormed seagard, theon said. lord jason had slain rodrik greyjoy under the walls of the castle, and thrown the ironmen back into the bay. if your father supposes i bear him some enmity for that, it's only because he never knew rodrik. they had a laugh over that as they raced ahead to an amorous young miller's wife that patrek knew. would that patrek were with me now mallister or no, he was a more amiable riding companion than this sour old priest that his uncle aeron had turned into. the path they rode wound up and up, into bare and stony hills. soon they were out of sight of the sea, though the smell of salt still hung sharp in the damp air. they kept a steady plodding pace, past a shepherd's croft and the abandoned workings of a mine. this new, holy aeron greyjoy was not much for talk. they rode in a gloom of silence. finally theon could suffer it no longer. robb stark is lord of winterfell now, he said. aeron rode on. one wolf is much like the other. robb has broken fealty with the iron throne and crowned himself king in the north. there's war. the maester's ravens fly over salt as soon as rock. this news is old and cold. it means a new day, uncle. every morning brings a new day, much like the old. in riverrun, they would tell you different. they say the red comet is a herald of a new age. a messenger from the gods. a sign it is, the priest agreed, but from our god, not theirs. a burning brand it is, such as our people carried of old. it is the flame the drowned god brought from the sea, and it proclaims a rising tide. it is time to hoist our sails and go forth into the world with fire and sword, as he did. theon smiled. i could not agree more. a man agrees with god as a raindrop with the storm. this raindrop will one day be a king, old man. theon had suffered quite enough of his uncle's gloom. he put his spurs into his horse and trotted on ahead, smiling. it was nigh on sunset when they reached the walls of pyke, a crescent of dark stone that ran from cliff to cliff, with the gatehouse in the center and three square towers to either side. theon could still make out the scars left by the stones of robert baratheon's catapults. a new south tower had risen from the ruins of the old, its stone a paler shade of grey, and as yet unmarred by patches of lichen. that was where robert had made his breach, swarming in over the rubble and corpses with his warharnmer in hand and ned stark at his side. theon had watched from the safety of the sea tower, and sometimes he still saw the torches in his dreams, and heard the dull thunder of the collapse. the gates stood open to him, the rusted iron portcullis drawn up. the guards atop the battlements watched with strangers' eyes as theon greyjoy came home at last. beyond the curtain wall were half a hundred acres of headland hard against the sky and the sea. the stables were here, and the kennels, and a scatter of other outbuildings. sheep and swine huddled in their pens while the castle dogs ran free. to the south were the cliffs, and the wide stone bridge to the great keep. theon could hear the crashing of waves as he swung down from his saddle. a stableman came to take his horse. a pair of gaunt children and some thralls stared at him with dull eyes, but there was no sign of his lord father, nor anyone else he recalled from boyhood. a bleak and bitter homecoming, he thought. the priest had not dismounted. will you not stay the night and share our meat and mead, uncle? bring you, i was told. you are brought. now i return to our god's business. aeron greyjoy turned his horse and rode slowly out beneath the muddy spikes of the portcullis. a bentback old crone in a shapeless grey dress approached him warily. m'lord, i am sent to show you to chambers. by whose bidding? your lord father, m'lord. theon pulled off his gloves. so you do know who i am. why is my father not here to greet me? he awaits you in the sea tower, m'lord. when you are rested from your trip. and i thought ned stark cold. and who are you? helya, who keeps this castle for your lord father. sylas was steward here. they called him sourmouth. even now, theon could recall the winey stench of the old man's breath. dead these five years, m'lord. and what of maester qalen, where is he? he sleeps in the sea. wendamyr keeps the ravens now. it is as if i were a stranger here, theon thought. nothing has changed, and yet everything has changed. show me to my chambers, woman, he commanded. bowing stiffly, she led him across the headland to the bridge. that at least was as he remembered; the ancient stones slick with spray and spotted by lichen, the sea foaming under their feet like some great wild beast, the salt wind clutching at their clothes. whenever he'd imagined his homecoming, he had always pictured himself returning to the snug bedchamber in the sea tower, where he'd slept as a child. instead the old woman led him to the bloody keep. the halls here were larger and better furnished, if no less cold nor damp. theon was given a suite of chilly rooms with ceilings so high that they were lost in gloom. he might have been more impressed if he had not known that these were the very chambers that had given the bloody keep its name. a thousand years before, the sons of the river king had been slaughtered here, hacked to bits in their beds so that pieces of their bodies might be sent back to their father on the mainland. but greyjoys were not murdered in pyke except once in a great while by their brothers, and his brothers were both dead. it was not fear of ghosts that made him glance about with distaste. the wall hangings were green with mildew, the mattress musty-smelling and sagging, the rushes old and brittle. years had come and gone since these chambers had last been opened. the damp went bone deep. i'll have a basin of hot water and a fire in this hearth, he told the crone. see that they light braziers in the other rooms to drive out some of the chill. and gods be good, get someone in here at once to change these rushes. yes, m'lord. as you command. she fled. after some time, they brought the hot water he had asked for. it was only tepid, and soon cold, and seawater in the bargain, but it served to wash the dust of the long ride from his face and hair and hands. while two thralls lit his braziers, theon stripped off his travel-stained clothing and dressed to meet his father. he chose boots of supple black leather, soft lambswool breeches of silvery-grey, a black velvet doublet with the golden kraken of the greyjoys embroidered on the breast. around his throat he fastened a slender gold chain, around his waist a belt of bleached white leather. he hung a dirk at one hip and a longsword at the other, in scabbards striped black- and-gold. drawing the dirk, he tested its edge with his thumb, pulled a whetstone from his belt pouch, and gave it a few licks. he prided himself on keeping his weapons sharp. when i return, i shall expect a warm room and clean rushes, he warned the thralls as he drew on a pair of black gloves, the silk decorated with a delicate scrollwork tracery in golden thread. theon returned to the great keep through a covered stone walkway, the echoes of his footsteps mingling with the ceaseless rumble of the sea below. to get to the sea tower on its crooked pillar, he had to cross three further bridges, each narrower than the one before. the last was made of rope and wood, and the wet salt wind made it sway underfoot like a living thing. theon's heart was in his mouth by the time he was halfway across. a long way below, the waves threw up tall plumes of spray as they crashed against the rock. as a boy, he used to run across this bridge, even in the black of night. boys believe nothing can hurt them, his doubt whispered. grown men know better. the door was grey wood studded with iron, and theon found it barred from the inside. he hammered on it with a fist, and cursed when a splinter snagged the fabric of his glove. the wood was damp and moldy, the iron studs rusted. after a moment the door was opened from within by a guard in a black iron breastplate and pothelm. you are the son? out of my way, or you'll learn who i am. the man stood aside. theon climbed the twisting steps to the solar. he found his father seated beside a brazier, beneath a robe of musty sealskins that covered him foot to chin. at the sound of boots on stone, the lord of the iron islands lifted his eyes to behold his last living son. he was smaller than theon remembered him. and so gaunt. balon greyjoy had always been thin, but now he looked as though the gods had put him in a cauldron and boiled every spare ounce of flesh from his bones, until nothing remained but hair and skin. bone thin and bone hard he was, with a face that might have been chipped from flint. his eyes were flinty too, black and sharp, but the years and the salt winds had turned his hair the grey of a winter sea, flecked with whitecaps. unbound, it hung past the small of the back. nine years, is it? lord balon said at last. ten, theon answered, pulling off his torn gloves. a boy they took, his father said. what are you now? a man, theon answered. your blood and your heir. lord balon grunted. we shall see. you shall, theon promised. ten years, you say. stark had you as long as i. and now you come as his envoy. not his, theon said. lord eddard is dead, beheaded by the lannister queen. they are both dead, stark and that robert who broke my walls with his stones. i vowed i'd live to see them both in their graves, and i have. he grimaced. yet the cold and the damp still make my joints ache, as when they were alive. so what does it serve? it serves. theon moved closer. i bring a letter- did ned stark dress you like that? his father interrupted, squinting up from beneath his robe. was it his pleasure to garb you in velvets and silks and make you his own sweet daughter? theon felt the blood rising to his face. i am no man's daughter. if you mislike my garb, i will change it. you will. throwing off the furs, lord balon pushed himself to his feet. he was not so tall as theon remembered. that bauble around your neck-was it bought with gold or iron? theon touched the gold chain. he had forgotten. it has been so long... in the old way, women might decorate themselves with ornaments bought with coin, but a warrior wore only the jewelry he took off the corpses of enemies slain by his own hand. paying the iron price, it was called. you blush red as a maid, theon. a question was asked. is it the gold price you paid, or the iron? the gold, theon admitted. his father slid his fingers under the necklace and gave it a yank so hard it was like to take theon's head off, had the chain not snapped first. my daughter has taken an axe for a lover, lord balon said. i will not have my son bedeck himself like a whore. he dropped the broken chain onto the brazier, where it slid down among the coals. it is as i feared. the green lands have made you soft, and the starks have made you theirs.  you're wrong. ned stark was my gaoler, but my blood is still salt and iron. lord balon turned away to warm his bony hands over the brazier. yet the stark pup sends you to me like a well-trained raven, clutching his little message. there is nothing small about the letter i bear, theon said, and the offer he makes is one i suggested to him. this wolf king heeds your counsel, does he? the notion seemed to amuse lord balon. he heeds me, yes. i've hunted with him, trained with him, shared meat and mead with him, warred at his side. i have earned his trust. he looks on me as an older brother, he- no. his father jabbed a finger at his face. not here, not in pyke, not in my hearing, you will not name him brother, this son of the man who put your true brothers to the sword. or have you forgotten rodrik and maron, who were your own blood? i forget nothing. ned stark had killed neither of his brothers, in truth. rodrik had been slain by lord jason mallister at seagard, maron crushed in the collapse of the old south tower... but stark would have done for them just as quick had the tide of battle chanced to sweep them together. i remember my brothers very well, theon insisted. chiefly he remembered rodrik' s drunken cuffs and maron' s cruel japes and endless lies. i remember when my father was a king too. he took out robb's letter and thrust it forward. here. read it... your grace. lord balon broke the seal and unfolded the parchment. his black eyes flicked back and forth. so the boy would give me a crown again, he said, and all i need do is destroy his enemies. his thin lips twisted in a smile. by now robb is at the golden tooth, theon said. once it falls, he'll be through the hills in a day. lord tywin's host is at harrenhal, cut off from the west. the kingslayer is a captive at riverrun. only ser stafford lannister and the raw green levies he's been gathering remain to oppose robb in the west. ser stafford will put himself between robb's army and lannisport, which means the city will be undefended when we descend on it by sea. if the gods are with us, even easterly rock itself may fall before the lannisters so much as realize that we are upon them. lord balon grunted. casterly rock has never fallen. until now. theon smiled. and how sweet that will be. his father did not return the smile. so this is why robb stark sends you back to me, after so long? so you might win my consent to th-is-pl-anof his?  it is my plan, not robb's, theon said proudly. mine, as the victory will be mine, and in time the crown. i will lead the attack myself, if it please you. as my reward i would ask that you grant me casterly rock for my own seat, once we have taken it from the lannisters. with the rock, he could hold lannisport and the golden lands of the west. it would mean wealth and power such as house greyjoy had never known. you reward yourself handsomely for a notion and a few lines of scribbling. his father read the letter again. the pup says nothing about a reward. only that you speak for him, and i am to listen, and give him my sails and swords, and in return he will give me a crown. his flinty eyes lifted to meet his son's. he will give me a crown, he repeated, his voice growing sharp. a poor choice of words, what is meant is- what is meant is what is said. the boy will give me a crown. and what is given can be taken away. lord balon tossed the letter onto the brazier, atop the necklace. the parchment curled, blackened, and took flame. theon was aghast. have you gone mad? his father laid a stinging backhand across his cheek. mind your tongue. you are not in winterfell now, and i am not robb the boy, that you should speak to me so. i am the greyjoy, lord reaper of pyke, king of salt and rock, son of the sea wind, and no man gives me a crown. i pay the iron price. i will take my crown, as urron redhand did five thousand years ago. theon edged backward, away from the sudden fury in his father's tone. take it, then, he spat, his cheek still tingling. call yourself king of the iron islands, no one will care... until the wars are over, and the victor looks about and spies the old fool perched off his shore with an iron crown on his head. lord balon laughed. well, at the least you are no craven. no more than i'm a fool. do you think i gather my ships to watch them rock at anchor? i mean to carve out a kingdom with fire and sword... but not from the west, and not at the bidding of king robb the boy. casterly rock is too strong, and lord tywin too cunning by half. aye, we might take lannisport, but we should never keep it. no. i hunger for a different plum... not so juicy sweet, to be sure, yet it hangs there ripe and undefended. where? theon might have asked, but by then he knew. she was undeniably a beauty. but your first is always beautiful, theon greyjoy thought. now there's a pretty grin, a woman's voice said behind him. the lordling likes the look of her, does he? theon turned to give her an appraising glance. he liked what he saw. ironborn, he knew at a glance; lean and longlegged, with black hair cut short, wind-chafed skin, strong sure hands, a dirk at her belt. her nose was too big and too sharp for her thin face, but her smile made up for it. he judged her a few years older than he was, but no more than five-and twenty. she moved as if she were used to a deck beneath her feet. yes, she's a sweet sight, he told her, though not half so sweet as you. oho. she grinned. i'd best be careful. this lordling has a honeyed tongue. taste it and see. is it that way, then? she said, eyeing him boldly. there were women on the iron islands-not many, but a few-who crewed the longships along with their men, and it was said that salt and sea changed them, gave them a man's appetites. have you been that long at sea, lordling? or were there no women where you came from? women enough, but none like you. and how would you know what i'm like? my eyes can see your face. my ears can hear your laughter. and my cock's gone hard as a mast for you. the woman stepped close and pressed a hand to the front of his breeches. well, you're no liar, she said, giving him a squeeze through the cloth. how bad does it hurt? fiercely. poor lordling. she released him and stepped back. as it happens, i'm a woman wed, and new with child. the gods are good, theon said. no chance i'd give you a bastard that way. even so, my man wouldn't thank you. no, but you might. and why would that be? i've had lords before. they're made the same as other men. have you ever had a prince? he asked her. when you're wrinkled and grey and your teats hang past your belly, you can tell your children's children that once you loved a king. oh, is it love we're talking now? and here i thought it was just cocks and cunts. is it love you fancy? he'd decided that he liked this wench, whoever she was; her sharp wit was a welcome respite from the damp gloom of pyke. shall i name my longship after you, and play you the high harp, and keep you in a tower room in my castle with only jewels to wear, like a princess in a song? you ought to name your ship after me, she said, ignoring all the rest. it was me who built her. sigrin built her. my lord father's shipwright. i'm esgred. ambrode's daughter, and wife to sigrin. he had not known that ambrode had a daughter, or sigrin a wife... but he'd met the younger shipwright only once, and the older one he scarce remembered. you're wasted on sigrin. oho. sigrin told me this sweet ship is wasted on you. theon bristled. do you know who i am? prince theon of house greyjoy. who else? tell me true, my lord, how well do you love her, this new maid of yours? sigrin will want to know. the longship was so new that she still smelled of pitch and resin. his uncle aeron would bless her on the morrow, but theon had ridden over from pyke to get a look at her before she was launched. she was not so large as lord balon's own great kraken or his uncle victarion's iron victory, but she looked swift and sweet, even sitting in her wooden cradle on the strand; lean black hull a hundred feet long, a single tall mast, fifty long oars, deck enough for a hundred men... and at the prow, the great iron ram in the shape of an arrowhead. sigrin did me good service, he admitted. is she as fast as she looks? faster-for a master that knows how to handle her. it has been a few years since i sailed a ship. and i've never captained one, if truth be told. still, i'm a greyjoy, and an ironman. the sea is in my blood. and your blood will be in the sea, if you sail the way you talk, she told him. i would never mistreat such a fair maiden. fair maiden? she laughed. she's a sea bitch, this one. there, and now you've named her. sea bitch. that amused her; he could see the sparkle in her dark eyes. and you said you'd name her after me, she said in a voice of wounded reproach. i did. he caught her hand. help me, my lady, in the green lands, they believe a woman with child means good fortune for any man who beds her. and what would they know about ships in the green lands? or women, for that matter? besides, i think you made that up. if i confess, will you still love me? still? when have i ever loved you? never, he admitted, but i am trying to repair that lack, my sweet esgred. the wind is cold. come aboard my ship and let me warm you. on the morrow my uncle aeron will pour seawater over her prow and mumble a prayer to the drowned god, but id sooner bless her with the milk of my loins, and yours. the drowned god might not take that kindly. bugger the drowned god. if he troubles us, i'll drown him again. we're off to war within a fortnight. would you send me into battle all sleepless with longing? gladly. a cruel maid. my ship is well named. if i steer her onto the rocks in my distraction, you'll have yourself to blame. do you plan to steer with this? esgred brushed the front of his breeches once more, and smiled as a finger traced the iron outline of his manhood. come back to pyke with me, he said suddenly, thinking, what will lord balon say? and why should i care? i am a man grown, if i want to bring a wench to bed it is no one's business but my own. and what would i do in pyke? her hand stayed where it was. my father will feast his captains tonight. he had them to feast every night, while he waited for the last stragglers to arrive, but theon saw no need to tell all that. would you make me your captain for the night, my lord prince? she had the wickedest smile he'd ever seen on a woman. i might. if i knew you'd steer me safe into port. well, i know which end of the oar goes in the sea, and there's no one better with ropes and knots. one-handed, she undid the lacing of his breeches, then grinned and stepped lightly away from him. a pity i'm a woman wed, and new with child. flustered, theon laced himself back up. i need to start back to the castle, if you do not come with me, i may lose my way for grief, and all the islands would be poorer. we couldn't have that... but i have no horse, my lord. you could take my squire's mount. and leave your poor squire to walk all the way to pyke? share mine, then. you'd like that well enough. the smile again. now, would i be behind you, or in front? you would be wherever you liked. i like to be on top. where has this wench been all my life? my father's hall is dim and dank. it needs esgred to make the fires blaze. the lordling has a honeyed tongue. isn't that where we began? she threw up her hands. and where we end. esgred is yours, sweet prince. take me to your castle. let me see your proud towers rising from the sea. i left my horse at the inn. come. they walked down the strand together, and when theon took her arm, she did not pull away. he liked the way she walked; there was a boldness to it, part saunter and part sway, that suggested she would be just as bold beneath the blankets. lordsport was as crowded as he'd ever seen it, swarming with the crews of the longships that lined the pebbled shore and rode at anchor well out past the breakwater. ironmen did not bend their knees often nor easily, but theon noted that oarsmen and townfolk alike grew quiet as they passed, and acknowledged him with respectful bows of the head. they have finally learned who i am, he thought. and past time too. lord goodbrother of great wyk had come in the night before with his main strength, near forty longships. his men were everywhere, conspicuous in their striped goat's hair sashes. it was said about the inn that otter gimpknee's whores were being fucked bowlegged by beardless boys in sashes. the boys were welcome to them so far as theon was concerned. a poxier den of slatterns he hoped he'd never see. his present companion was more to his taste. that she was wed to his father's shipwright and pregnant to boot only made her more intriguing. has my lord prince begun choosing his crew? esgred asked as they made their way toward the stable. ho, bluetooth, she shouted to a passing seafarer, a tall man in bearskin vest and raven-winged helm. how fares your bride? fat with child, and talking of twins. so soon? esgred smiled that wicked smile. you got your oar in the water quickly. aye, and stroked and stroked and stroked, roared the man, a big man, theon observed. bluetooth, was it? should i choose him for my sea bitch? only if you mean to insult him. bluetooth has a sweet ship of his own. i have been too long away to know one man from another, theon admitted. he'd looked for a few of the friends he'd played with as a boy, but they were gone, dead, or grown into strangers. my uncle victarion has loaned me his own steersman. rymolf stormdrunk? a good man, so long as he's sober. she saw more faces she knew, and called out to a passing trio, uller, qarl. where's your brother, skyte? the drowned god needed a strong oarsman, i fear, replied the stocky man with the white streak in his beard. what he means is, eldiss drank too much wine and his fat belly burst, said the pink-cheeked youth beside him. what's dead may never die, esgred said. what's dead may never die. theon muttered the words with them. you seem well known, he said to the woman when the men had passed on. every man loves the shipwright's wife. he had better, lest he wants his ship to sink. if you need men to pull your oars, you could do worse than those three. lordsport has no lack of strong arms. theon had given the matter no little thought. it was fighters he wanted, and men who would be loyal to him, not to his lord father or his uncles. he was playing the part of a dutiful young prince for the moment, while he waited for lord balon to reveal the fullness of his plans. if it turned out that he did not like those plans or his part in them, however, well... strength is not enough. a longship's oars must move as one if you would have her best speed. choose men who have rowed together before, if you're wise. sage counsel. perhaps you'd help me choose them. let her believe i want her wisdom, women fancy that. i may. if you treat me kindly. how else? theon quickened his stride as they neared the myraham, rocking high and empty by the quay. her captain had tried to sail a fortnight past, but lord balon would not permit it. none of the merchantmen that called at lordsport had been allowed to depart again; his father wanted no word of the hosting to reach the mainland before he was ready to strike. milord, a plaintive voice called down from the forecastle of the merchanter. the captain's daughter leaned over the rail, gazing after him. her father had forbidden her to come ashore, but whenever theon came to lordsport he spied her wandering forlornly about the deck. milord, a moment, she called after him. as it please milord... did she? esgred asked as theon hurried her past the cog. please milord? he saw no sense in being coy with this one. for a time. now she wants to be my salt wife. oho. well, she'd profit from some salting, no doubt. too soft and bland, that one. or am i wrong? you're not wrong. soft and bland. precisely. how had she known? he had told wex to wait at the inn. the common room was so crowded that theon had to push his way through the door. not a seat was to be had at bench nor table. nor did he see his squire. wex, - he shouted over the din and clatter. if he's up with one of those poxy whores, i'll strip the hide off him, he was thinking when he finally spied the boy, dicing near the hearth... and winning too, by the look of the pile of coins before him. time to go, theon announced. when the boy paid him no mind, he seized him by the ear and pulled him from the game. wex grabbed up a fistful of coppers and came along without a word. that was one of the things theon liked best about him. most squires have loose tongues, but wex had been born dumb... which didn't seem to keep him from being clever as any twelve- year-old had a right to be. he was a baseborn son of one of lord botley's half brothers. taking him as squire had been part of the price theon had paid for his horse. when wex saw esgred, his eyes went round. you'd think he'd never seen a woman before, theon thought. esgred will be riding with me back to pyke. saddle the horses, and be quick about it. the boy had ridden in on a scrawny little garron from lord balon's stable, but theon's mount was quite another sort of beast. where did you find that hellhorse? esgred asked when she saw him, but from the way she laughed he knew she was impressed. lord botley bought him in lannisport a year past, but he proved to be too much horse for him, so botley was pleased to sell. the iron islands were too sparse and rocky for breeding good horses. most of the islanders were indifferent riders at best, more comfortable on the deck of a longship than in the saddle. even the lords rode garrons or shaggy harlaw ponies, and ox carts were more common than drays. the smallfolk too poor to own either one pulled their own plows through the thin, stony soil. but theon had spent ten years in winterfell, and did not intend to go to war without a good mount beneath him. lord botley's misjudgment was his good fortune: a stallion with a temper as black as his hide, larger than a courser if not quite so big as most destriers. as theon was not quite so big as most knights, that suited him admirably. the animal had fire in his eyes. when he'd met his new owner, he'd pulled back his lips and tried to bite off his face. does he have a name? esgred asked theon as he mounted. smiler. he gave her a hand, and pulled her up in front of him, where he could put his arms around her as they rode. i knew a man once who told me that i smiled at the wrong things. do you? only by the lights of those who smile at nothing. he thought of his father and his uncle aeron. are you smiling now, my lord prince? oh, yes. theon reached around her to take the reins. she was almost of a height with him. her hair could have used a wash and she had a faded pink scar on her pretty neck, but he liked the smell of her, salt and sweat and woman. the ride back to pyke promised to be a good deal more interesting than the ride down had been. when they were well beyond lordsport, theon put a hand on her breast. esgred reached up and plucked it away. i'd keep both hands on the reins, or this black beast of yours is like to fling us both off and kick us to death. i broke him of that. amused, theon behaved himself for a while, chatting amiably of the weather (grey and overcast, as it had been since he arrived, with frequent rains) and telling her of the men he'd killed in the whispering wood. when he reached the part about coming that close to the kingslayer himself, he slid his hand back up to where it had been. her breasts were small, but he liked the firmness of them. you don't want to do that, my lord prince. oh, but i do. theon gave her a squeeze. your squire is watching you. let him. he'll never speak of it, i swear. esgred pried his fingers off her breast. this time she kept him firmly prisoned. she had strong hands. i like a woman with a good tight grip. she snorted. i'd not have thought it, by that wench on the waterfront. you must not judge me by her. she was the only woman on the ship. tell me of your father. will he welcome me kindly to his castle? why should he? he scarcely welcomed me, his own blood, the heir to pyke and the iron islands. are you? she asked mildly. it's said that you have uncles, brothers, a sister. my brothers are long dead, and my sister... well, they say asha's favorite gown is a chainmail hauberk that hangs down past her knees, with boiled leather smallclothes beneath. men's garb won't make her a man, though. i'll make a good marriage alliance with her once we've won the war, if i can find a man to take her. as i recall, she had a nose like a vulture's beak, a ripe crop of pimples, and no more chest than a boy. you can marry off your sister, esgred observed, but not your uncles. my uncles theon's claim took precedence over those of his father's three brothers, but the woman had touched on a sore point nonetheless, in the islands it was scarce unheard of for a strong, ambitious uncle to dispossess a weak nephew of his rights, and usually murder him in the bargain. but i am not weak, theon told himself, and i mean to be stronger yet by the time my father dies. my uncles pose no threat to me, he declared. aeron is drunk on seawater and sanctity. he lives only for his god- his god? not yours? mine as well. what is dead can never die. he smiled thinly. if i make pious noises as required, damphair will give me no trouble. and my uncle victarion- lord captain of the iron fleet, and a fearsome warrior. i have heard them sing of him in the alehouses. during my lord father's rebellion, he sailed into lannisport with my uncle euron and burned the lannister fleet where it lay at anchor, theon recalled. the plan was euron's, though. victarion is like some great grey bullock, strong and tireless and dutiful, but not like to win any races. no doubt, he'll serve me as loyally as he has served my lord father. he has neither the wits nor the ambition to plot betrayal. euron croweye has no lack of cunning, though. i've heard men say terrible things of that one. theon shifted his seat. my uncle euron has not been seen in the islands for close on two years. he may be dead. if so, it might be for the best. lord balon's eldest brother had never given up the old way, even for a day. his silence, with its black sails and dark red hull, was infamous in every port from ibben to asshai, it was said. he may be dead, esgred agreed, and if he lives, why, he has spent so long at sea, he'd be half a stranger here. the ironborn would never seat a stranger in the seastone chair. i suppose not, theon replied, before it occurred to him that some would call him a stranger as well. the thought made him frown. ten years is a long while, but i am back now, and my father is far from dead. i have time to prove myself. he considered fondling esgred' s breast again, but she would probably only take his hand away, and all this talk of his uncles had dampened his ardor somewhat. time enough for such play at the castle, in the privacy of his chambers. i will speak to helya when we reach pyke, and see that you have an honored place at the feast, he said. i must sit on the dais, at my father's right hand, but i will come down and join you when he leaves the hall. he seldom lingers long. he has no belly for drink these days. a grievous thing when a great man grows old. lord balon is but the father of a great man. a modest lordling. only a fool humbles himself when the world is so full of men eager to do that job for him. he kissed her lightly on the nape of her neck. what shall i wear to this great feast? she reached back and pushed his face away. i'll ask helya to garb you. one of my lady mother's gowns might do. she is off on harlaw, and not expected to return. the cold winds have worn her away, i hear. will you not go see her? harlaw is only a day's sail, and surely lady greyjoy yearns for a last sight of her son. would that i could. i am kept too busy here. my father relies on me, now that i am returned. come peace, perhaps. your coming might bring her peace. now you sound a woman, theon complained. i confess, i am... and new with child. somehow that thought excited him. so you say, but your body shows no signs of it. how shall it be proven? before i believe you, i shall need to see your breasts grow ripe, and taste your mother's milk. and what will my husband say to this? your father's own sworn man and servant? we'll give him so many ships to build, he'll never know you've left him. she laughed. it's a cruel lordling who's seized me. if i promise you that one day you may watch my babe get suck, will you tell me more of your war, theon of house greyjoy? there are miles and mountains still ahead of us, and i would hear of this wolf king you served, and the golden lions he fights. ever anxious to please her, theon obliged. the rest of the long ride passed swiftly as he filled her pretty head with tales of winterfell and war. some of the things he said astonished him. she is easy to talk to, gods praise her, he reflected. i feel as though i've known her for years. if the wench's pillow play is half the equal of her wit, i'll need to keep her... he thought of sigrin the shipwright, a thick-bodied, thick-witted man, flaxen hair already receding from a pimpled brow, and shook his head. a waste. a most tragic waste. it seemed scarcely any time at all before the great curtain wall of pyke loomed up before them. the gates were open. theon put his heels into smiler and rode through at a brisk trot. the hounds were barking wildly as he helped esgred dismount. several came bounding up, tails wagging. they shot straight past him and almost bowled the woman over, leaping all around her, yapping and licking. off, theon shouted, aiming an ineffectual kick at one big brown bitch, but esgred was laughing and wrestling with them. a stableman came pounding up after the dogs. take the horse, theon commanded him, and get these damn dogs away- the lout paid him no mind. his face broke into a huge gap-toothed smile and he said, lady asha. you're back. last night, she said. i sailed from great wyk with lord goodbrother, and spent the night at the inn. my little brother was kind enough to let me ride with him from lordsport. she kissed one of the dogs on the nose and grinned at theon. all he could do was stand and gape at her. asha. no. she cannot be asha. he realized suddenly that there were two ashas in his head. one was the little girl he had known. the other, more vaguely imagined, looked something like her mother. neither looked a bit like this... this... this... the pimples went when the breasts came, she explained while she tussled with a dog, but i kept the vulture's beak. theon found his voice. why didn't you tell me? asha let go of the hound and straightened. i wanted to see who you were first. and i did. she gave him a mocking half bow. and now, little brother, pray excuse me. i need to bathe and dress for the feast. i wonder if i still have that chainmail gown i like to wear over my boiled leather smallclothes? she gave him that evil grin, and crossed the bridge with that walk he'd liked so well, half saunter and half sway. when theon turned away, wex was smirking at him. he gave the boy a clout on the ear. that's for enjoying this so much. and another, harder. and that's for not warning me. next time, grow a tongue. his own chambers in the guest keep had never seemed so chilly, though the thralls had left a brazier burning. theon kicked his boots off, let his cloak fall to the floor, and poured himself a cup of wine, remembering a gawky girl with knob knees and pimples. she unlaced my breeches, he thought, outraged, and she said... oh, gods, and i said... he groaned. he could not possibly have made a more appalling fool of himself. no, he thought then. she was the one who made me a fool. the evil bitch must have enjoyed every moment of it. and the way she kept reaching for my cock... he took his cup and went to the window seat, where he sat drinking and watching the sea while the sun darkened over pyke. i have no place here, he thought, and asha is the reason, may the others take her! the water below turned from green to grey to black. by then he could hear distant music, and he knew it was time to change for the feast. theon chose plain boots and plainer clothes, somber shades of black and grey to fit his mood. no ornament; he had nothing bought with iron. i might have taken something off that wildling i killed to save bran stark, but he had nothing worth the taking. that's my cursed luck, i kill the poor. the long smoky hall was crowded with his father's lords and captains when theon entered, near four hundred of them. dagmer cleftjaw had not yet returned from old wyk with the stonehouses and drumms, but all the rest were there-harlaws from harlaw, blacktydes from blacktyde, sparrs, merlyns, and goodbrothers from great wyk, saltcliffes and sunderlies from saltcliffe, and botleys and wynches from the other side of pyke. the thralls were pouring ale, and there was music, fiddles and skins and drums. three burly men were doing the finger dance, spinning short-hafted axes at each other. the trick was to catch the axe or leap over it without missing a step. it was called the finger dance because it usually ended when one of the dancers lost one... or two, or five. neither the dancers nor the drinkers took much note of theon greyjoy as he strode to the dais. lord balon occupied the seastone chair, carved in the shape of a great kraken from an immense block of oily black stone. legend said that the first men had found it standing on the shore of old wyk when they came to the iron islands. to the left of the high seat were theon' s uncles. asha was ensconced at his right hand, in the place of honor. you come late, theon, lord balon observed. i ask your pardon. theon took the empty seat beside asha. leaning close, he hissed in her ear, you're in my place. she turned to him with innocent eyes. brother, surely you are mistaken. your place is at winterfell. her smile cut. and where are all your pretty clothes? i heard you fancied silk and velvet against your skin. she was in soft green wool herself, simply cut, the fabric clinging to the slender lines of her body. your hauberk must have rusted away, sister, he threw back. a great pity. i'd like to see you all in iron. asha only laughed. you may yet, little brother... if you think your sea bitch can keep up with my black wind. one of their father's thralls came near, bearing a flagon of wine. are you drinking ale or wine tonight, theon? she leaned over close. or is it still a taste of my mother's milk you thirst for? he flushed. wine, he told the thrall. asha turned away and banged on the table, shouting for ale. theon hacked a loaf of bread in half, hollowed out a trencher, and summoned a cook to fill it with fish stew. the smell of the thick cream made him a little ill, but he forced himself to eat some. he'd drunk enough wine to float him through two meals. if i retch, it will be on her. does father know that you've married his shipwright? he asked his sister. no more than sigrin does. she gave a shrug. esgred was the first ship he built. he named her after his mother. i would be hard-pressed to say which he loves best. every word you spoke to me was a lie. not every word. remember when i told you i like to be on top? asha grinned. that only made him angrier. all that about being a woman wed, and new with child... oh, that part was true enough. asha leapt to her feet. rolfe, here, she shouted down at one of the finger dancers, holding up a hand. he saw her, spun, and suddenly an axe came flying from his hand, the blade gleaming as it tumbled end over end through the torchlight. theon had time for a choked gasp before asha snatched the axe from the air and slammed it down into the table, splitting his trencher in two and splattering his mantle with drippings. there's my lord husband. his sister reached down inside her gown and drew a dirk from between her breasts. and here's my sweet suckling babe. he could not imagine how he looked at that moment, but suddenly theon greyjoy realized that the great hall was ringing with laughter, all of it at him. even his father was smiling, gods be damned, and his uncle victarion chuckled aloud. the best response he could summon was a queasy grin. we shall see who is laughing when all this is done, bitch. asha wrenched the axe out of the table and flung it back down at the dancers, to whistles and loud cheers. you'd do well to heed what i told you about choosing a crew. a thrall offered them a platter, and she stabbed a salted fish and ate it off the end of her dirk. if you had troubled to learn the first thing of sigrin, i could never have fooled you. ten years a wolf, and you land here and think to prince about the islands, but you know nothing and no one. why should men fight and die for you?  i am their lawful prince, theon said stiffly. by the laws of the green lands, you might be. but we make our own laws here, or have you forgotten? scowling, theon turned to contemplate the leaking trencher before him. he would have stew in his lap before long. he shouted for a thrall to clean it up. half my life i have waited to come home, and for what? mockery and disregard? this was not the pyke he remembered. or did he remember? he had been so young when they took him away to hold hostage. the feast was a meager enough thing, a succession offish stews, black bread, and spiceless goat. the tastiest thing theon found to eat was an onion pie. ale and wine continued to flow well after the last of the courses had been cleared away. lord balon greyjoy rose from the seastone chair. have done with your drink and come to my solar, he commanded his companions on the dais. we have plans to lay. he left them with no other word, flanked by two of his guards. his brothers followed in short order. theon rose to go after them. my little brother is in a rush to be off. asha raised her drinking horn and beckoned for more ale. our lord father is waiting. and has, for many a year. it will do him no harm to wait a little longer... but if you fear his wrath, scurry after him by all means. you ought to have no trouble catching our uncles. she smiled. one is drunk on seawater, after all, and the other is a great grey bullock so dim he'll probably get lost. theon sat back down, annoyed. i run after no man. no man, but every woman? it was not me who grabbed your cock. i don't have one, remember? you grabbed every other bit of me quick enough. he could feel the flush creeping up his cheeks. i'm a man with a man's hungers. what sort of unnatural creature are you? only a shy maid. asha's hand darted out under the table to give his cock a squeeze. theon nearly jumped from his chair. what, don't you want me to steer you into port, brother? marriage is not for you, theon decided. when i rule, i believe i will pack you off to the silent sisters. he lurched to his feet and strode off unsteadily to find his father. rain was falling by the time he reached the swaying bridge out to the sea tower. his stomach was crashing and churning like the waves below, and wine had unsteadied his feet. theon gritted his teeth and gripped the rope tightly as he made his way across, pretending that it was asha's neck he was clutching. the solar was as damp and drafty as ever. buried under his sealskin robes, his father sat before the brazier with his brothers on either side of him. victarion was talking of tides and winds when theon entered, but lord balon waved him silent. i have made my plans. it is time you heard them. i have some suggestions- when i require your counsel i shall ask for it, his father said. we have had a bird from old wyk. dagmer is bringing the drumms and stonehouses. if the god grants us good winds, we will sail when they arrive... or you will. i mean for you to strike the first blow, theon. you shall take eight longships north- eight? his face reddened. what can i hope to accomplish with only eight longships? you are to harry the stony shore, raiding the fishing villages and sinking any ships you chance to meet. it may be that you will draw some of the northern lords out from behind their stone walls. aeron will accompany you, and dagmer cleftjaw. may the drowned god bless our swords, the priest said. theon felt as if he'd been slapped. he was being sent to do reaver's work, burning fishermen out of their hovels and raping their ugly daughters, and yet it seemed lord balon did not trust him sufficiently to do even that much. bad enough to have to suffer the damp hair's scowls and chidings. with dagmer cleftjaw along as well, his command would be purely nominal. asha my daughter, lord balon went on, and theon turned to see that his sister had slipped in silently, you shall take thirty longships of picked men round sea dragon point. land upon the tidal flats north of deepwood motte. march quickly, and the castle may fall before they even know you are upon them. asha smiled like a cat in cream. i've always wanted a castle, she said sweetly. then take one. theon had to bite his tongue. deepwood motte was the stronghold of the glovers. with both robert and galbart warring in the south, it would be lightly held, and once the castle fell the ironmen would have a secure base in the heart of the north. i should be the one sent to take deepwood. he knew deepwood motte, he had visited the glovers several times with eddard stark. victarion, lord balon said to his brother, the main thrust shall fall to you. when my sons have struck their blows, winterfell must respond. you should meet small opposition as you sail up saltspear and the fever river. at the headwaters, you will be less than twenty miles from moat cailin. the neck is the key to the kingdom. already we command the western seas. once we hold moat cailin, the pup will not be able to win back to the north... and if he is fool enough to try, his enemies will seal the south end of the causeway behind him, and robb the boy will find himself caught like a rat in a bottle. theon could keep silent no longer. a bold plan, father, but the lords in their castles- lord balon rode over him. the lords are gone south with the pup. those who remained behind are the cravens, old men, and green boys. they will yield or fall, one by one. winterfell may defy us for a year, but what of it? the rest shall be ours, forest and field and hall, and we shall make the folk our thralls and salt wives. aeron damp hair raised his arms. and the waters of wrath will rise high, and the drowned god will spread his dominion across the green lands!  what is dead can never die, victarion intoned. lord balon and asha echoed his words, and theon had no choice but to mumble along with them. and then it was done. outside the rain was falling harder than ever. the rope bridge twisted and writhed under his feet. theon greyjoy stopped in the center of the span and contemplated the rocks below. the sound of the waves was a crashing roar, and he could taste the salt spray on his lips. a sudden gust of wind made him lose his footing, and he stumbled to his knees. asha helped him rise. you can't hold your wine either, brother. theon leaned on her shoulder and let her guide him across the rainslick boards. i liked you better when you were esgred, he told her accusingly. she laughed. that's fair. i liked you better when you were nine. theon wiped the spittle off his cheek with the back of his hand. robb will gut you, greyjoy, benfred tallheart screamed. he'll feed your turncloak's heart to his wolf, you piece of sheep dung. aeron damphair's voice cut through the insults like a sword through cheese. now you must kill him. i have questions for him first, said theon. puck your questions. benfred hung bleeding and helpless between stygg and werlag. you'll choke on them before you get any answers from me, craven. turncloak. uncle aeron was relentless. when he spits on you, he spits on all of us. he spits on the drowned god. he must die. my father gave me the command here, uncle. and sent me to counsel you. and to watch me. theon dare not push matters too far with his uncle. the command was his, yes, but his men had a faith in the drowned god that they did not have in him, and they were terrified of aeron damp hair. i cannot fault them for that. you'll lose your head for this, greyjoy. the crows will eat the jelly of your eyes. benfred tried to spit again, but only managed a little blood. the others bugger your wet god. tallhart, you've spit away your life, theon thought. stygg, silence him, he said. they forced benfred to his knees. werlag tore the rabbitskin off his belt and jammed it between his teeth to stop his shouting. stygg unlimbered his axe. no, aeron damphair declared. he must be given to the god. the old way. what does it matter? dead is dead. take him, then. you will come as well. you command here. the offering should come from you. that was more than theon could stomach. you are the priest, uncle, i leave the god to you. do me the same kindness and leave the battles to me. he waved his hand, and werlag and stygg began to drag their captive off toward the shore. aeron damphair gave his nephew a reproachful look, then followed. down to the pebbled beach they would go, to drown benfred tallhart in salt water. the old way. perhaps it's a kindness, theon told himself as he stalked off in the other direction. stygg was hardly the most expert of headsmen, and benfred had a neck thick as a boar's, heavy with muscle and fat. i used to mock him for it, just to see how angry i could make him, he remembered. that had been, what, three years past? when ned stark had ridden to torrhen's square to see ser helman, theon had accompanied him and spent a fortnight in benfred's company. he could hear the rough noises of victory from the crook in the road where the battle had been fought... if you'd go so far as to call it a battle. more like slaughtering sheep, if truth be told. sheep fleeced in steel, but sheep nonetheless. climbing a jumble of stone, theon looked down on the dead men and dying horses. the horses had deserved better. tymor and his brothers had gathered up what mounts had come through the fight unhurt, while urzen and black lorren silenced the animals too badly wounded to be saved. the rest of his men were looting the corpses. gevin harlaw knelt on a dead man's chest, sawing off his finger to get at a ring. paying the iron price. my lord father would approve. theon thought of seeking out the bodies of the two men he'd slain himself to see if they had any jewelry worth the taking, but the notion left a bitter taste in his mouth. he could imagine what eddard stark would have said. yet that thought made him angry too. stark is dead and rotting, and naught to me, he reminded himself. old botley, who was called fishwhiskers, sat scowling by his pile of plunder while his three sons added to it. one of them was in a shoving match with a fat man named todric, who was reeling among the slain with a horn of ale in one hand and an axe in the other, clad in a cloak of white foxfur only slightly stained by the blood of its previous owner. drunk, theon decided, watching him bellow. it was said that the ironmen of old had oft been blood-drunk in battle, so berserk that they felt no pain and feared no foe, but this was a common ale-drunk. wex, my bow and quiver. the boy ran and fetched them. theon bent the bow and slipped the string into its notches as todric knocked down the botley boy and flung ale into his eyes. fishwhiskers leapt up cursing, but theon was quicker. he drew on the hand that clutched the drinking horn, figuring to give them a shot to talk about, but todric spoiled it by lurching to one side just as he loosed. the arrow took him through the belly. the looters stopped to gape. theon lowered his bow. no drunkards, i said, and no squabbles over plunder. on his knees, todric was dying noisily. botley, silence him. fishwhiskers and his sons were quick to obey. they slit todric's throat as he kicked feebly, and were stripping him of cloak and rings and weapons before he was even dead. now they know i mean what i say. lord balon might have given him the command, but theon knew that some of his men saw only a soft boy from the green lands when they looked at him. anyone else have a thirst? no one replied. good. he kicked at benfred's fallen banner, clutched in the dead hand of the squire who'd borne it. a rabbitskin had been tied below the flag. why rabbitskins? he had meant to ask, but being spat on had made him forget his questions. he tossed his bow back to wex and strode off, remembering how elated he'd felt after the whispering wood, and wondering why this did not taste as sweet. tallhart, you bloody overproud fool, you never even sent out a scout. they'd been joking and even singing as they'd come on, the three trees of tallhart streaming above them while rabbitskins flapped stupidly from the points of their lances. the archers concealed behind the gorse had spoiled the song with a rain of arrows, and theon himself had led his men-at-arms out to finish the butcher's work with dagger, axe, and warhammer. he had ordered their leader spared for questioning. only he had not expected it to be benfred tallhart. his limp body was being dragged from the surf when theon returned to his sea bitch. the masts of his longships stood outlined against the sky along the pebbled beach. of the fishing village, nothing remained but cold ashes that stank when it rained. the men had been put to the sword, all but a handful that theon had allowed to flee to bring the word to torrhen's square. their wives and daughters had been claimed for salt wives, those who were young enough and fair. the crones and the ugly ones had simply been raped and killed, or taken for thralls if they had useful skills and did not seem likely to cause trouble. theon had planned that attack as well, bringing his ships up to the shore in the chill darkness before the dawn and leaping from the prow with a longaxe in his hand to lead his men into the sleeping village. he did not like the taste of any of this, but what choice did he have? his thrice-damned sister was sailing her black wind north even now, sure to win a castle of her own. lord balon had let no word of the hosting escape the iron islands, and theon' s bloody work along the stony shore would be put down to sea raiders out for plunder. the northmen would not realize their true peril, not until the hammers fell on deepwood motte and moat cailin. and after all is done and won, they will make songs for that bitch asha, and forget that i was even here. that is, if he allowed it. dagmer cleftjaw stood by the high carved prow of his longship, foamdrinker. theon had assigned him the task of guarding the ships; otherwise men would have called it dagmer's victory, not his. a more prickly man might have taken that for a slight, but the cleftjaw had only laughed. the day is won, dagmer called down. and yet you do not smile, boy. the living should smile, for the dead cannot. he smiled himself to show how it was done, it made for a hideous sight. under a snowy white mane of hair, dagmer cleftjaw had the most gut-churning scar theon had ever seen, the legacy of the longaxe that had near killed him as a boy. the blow had splintered his jaw, shattered his front teeth, and left him four lips where other men had but two. a shaggy beard covered his cheeks and neck, but the hair would not grow over the scar, so a shiny seam of puckered, twisted flesh divided his face like a crevasse through a snowfield. we could hear them singing, the old warrior said. it was a good song, and they sang it bravely. they sang better than they fought. harps would have done them as much good as their lances did. how many men are lost? of ours? theon shrugged. todric. i killed him for getting drunk and fighting over loot. some men are born to be killed. a lesser man might have been afraid to show a smile as frightening as his, yet dagmer grinned more often and more broadly than lord balon ever had. ugly as it was, that smile brought back a hundred memories. theon had seen it often as a boy, when he'd jumped a horse over a mossy wall, or flung an axe and split a target square. he'd seen it when he blocked a blow from dagmer's sword, when he put an arrow through a seagull on the wing, when he took the tiller in hand and guided a longship safely through a snarl of foaming rocks. he gave me more smiles than my father and eddard stark together. even robb... he ought to have won a smile the day he'd saved bran from that wildling, but instead he'd gotten a scolding, as if he were some cook who'd burned the stew. you and i must talk, uncle, theon said. dagmer was no true uncle, only a sworn man with perhaps a pinch of greyjoy blood four or five lives back, and that from the wrong side of the blanket. yet theon had always called him uncle nonetheless. come onto my deck, then. there were no mlords from dagmer, not when he stood on his own deck. on the iron islands, every captain was a king aboard his own ship. he climbed the plank to the deck of the foamdrinker in four long strides, and dagmer led him back to the cramped aft cabin, where the old man poured a horn of sour ale and offered theon the same. he declined. we did not capture enough horses. a few, but... well, i'll make do with what i have, i suppose. fewer men means more glory. what need do we have of horses? like most ironmen, dagmer preferred to fight on foot or from the deck of a ship. horses will only shit on our decks and get in our way. if we sailed, yes, theon admitted. i have another plan. he watched the other carefully to see how he would take that. without the cleftjaw he could not hope to succeed. command or no, the men would never follow him if both aeron and dagmer opposed him, and he had no hope of winning over the sour-faced priest. your lord father commanded us to harry the coast, no more. eyes pale as sea foam watched theon from under those shaggy white eyebrows. was it disapproval he saw there, or a spark of interest? the latter, he thought... hoped... you are my father's man. his best man, and always have been. pride, theon thought. he is proud, i must use that, his pride will be the key. there is no man in the iron islands half so skilled with spear or sword. you have been too long away, boy. when you left, it was as you say, but i am grown old in lord greyjoy' s service. the singers call andrik best now. andrik the unsmiling, they name him. a giant of a man. he serves lord drumm of old wyk. and black lorren and qarl the maid are near as dread. this andrik may be a great fighter, but men do not fear him as they fear you. aye, that's so, dagmer said. the fingers curled around the drinking horn were heavy with rings, gold and silver and bronze, set with chunks of sapphire and garnet and dragonglass. he had paid the iron price for every one, theon knew. if i had a man like you in my service, i should not waste him on this child's business of harrying and burning. this is no work for lord balon's best man. dagmer's grin twisted his lips apart and showed the brown splinters of his teeth. nor for his trueborn son? he hooted. i know you too well, theon. i saw you take your first step, helped you bend your first bow.'tis not me who feels wasted. by rights i should have my sister's command, he admitted, uncomfortably aware of how peevish that sounded. you take this business too hard, boy. it is only that your lord father does not know you. with your brothers dead and you taken by the wolves, your sister was his solace. he learned to rely on her, and she has never failed him. nor have i. the starks knew my worth. i was one of brynden blackfish's picked scouts, and i charged with the first wave in the whispering wood. i was that close to crossing swords with the kingslayer himself. theon held his hands two feet apart. daryn hornwood came between us, and died for it. why do you tell me this? dagmer asked. it was me who put your first sword in your hand. i know you are no craven. does my father? the hoary old warrior looked as if he had bitten into something he did not like the taste of. it is only... theon, the boy wolf is your friend, and these starks had you for ten years. i am no stark. lord eddard saw to that. i am a greyjoy, and i mean to be my father's heir. how can i do that unless i prove myself with some great deed?  you are young. other wars will come, and you shall do your great deeds. for now, we are commanded to harry the stony shore. let my uncle aeron see to it. i'll give him six ships, all but foamdrinker and sea bitch, and he can burn and drown to his god's surfeit. the command was given you, not aeron damphair. so long as the harrying is done, what does it matter? no priest could do what i mean to, nor what i ask of you. i have a task that only dagmer cleftjaw can accomplish. dagmer took a long draught from his horn. tell me. he is tempted, theon thought. he likes this reaver's work no better than i do. if my sister can take a castle, so can i. asha has four or five times the men we do. theon allowed himself a sly smile. but we have four times the wits, and five times the courage. your father- -will thank me, when i hand him his kingdom. i mean to do a deed that the harpers will sing of for a thousand years. he knew that would give dagmer pause. a singer had made a song about the axe that cracked his jaw in half, and the old man loved to hear it. whenever he was in his cups he would call for a reaving song, something loud and stormy that told of dead heroes and deeds of wild valor. his hair is white and his teeth are rotten, but he still has a taste for glory. what would my part be in this scheme of yours, boy? dagmer cleftjaw asked after a long silence, and theon knew he had won. to strike terror into the heart of the foe, as only one of your name could do. you'll take the great part of our force and march on torrhen's square. helman tallhart took his best men south, and benfred died here with their sons. his uncle leobald will remain, with some small garrison. if i had been able to question benfred, i would know just how small. make no secret of your approach. sing all the brave songs you like. i want them to close their gates. is this torrhen's square a strong keep? strong enough. the walls are stone, thirty feet high, with square towers at each corner and a square keep within. stone walls cannot be fired. how are we to take them? we do not have the numbers to storm even a small castle. you will make camp outside their walls and set to building catapults and siege engines. that is not the old way. have you forgotten? ironmen fight with swords and axes, not by flinging rocks. there is no glory in starving out a foeman. leobald will not know that. when he sees you raising siege towers, his old woman's blood will run cold, and he will bleat for help. stay your archers, uncle, and let the raven fly. the castellan at winterfell is a brave man, but age has stiffened his wits as well as his limbs. when he learns that one of his king's bannermen is under attack by the fearsome dagmer cleftjaw, he will summon his strength and ride to tallhart's aid. it is his duty. ser rodrik is nothing if not dutiful. any force he summons will be larger than mine, dagmer said, and these old knights are more cunning than you think, or they would never have lived to see their first grey hair. you set us a battle we cannot hope to win, theon. this torrhen's square will never fall. theon smiled. it's not torrhen's square i mean to take. one moment he was asleep; the next, awake. kyra nestled against him, one arm draped lightly over his, her breasts brushing his back. he could hear her breathing, soft and steady. the sheet was tangled about them. it was the black of night. the bedchamber was dark and still. what is it? did i hear something? someone? wind sighed faintly against the shutters. somewhere, far off, he heard the yowl of a cat in heat. nothing else. sleep, greyjoy, he told himself. the castle is quiet, and you have guards posted. at your door, at the gates, on the armory. he might have put it down to a bad dream, but he did not remember dreaming. kyra had worn him out. until theon had sent for her, she had lived all of her eighteen years in the winter town without ever setting foot inside the walls of the castle. she came to him wet and eager and lithe as a weasel, and there had been a certain undeniable spice to fucking a common tavern wench in lord eddard stark's own bed. she murmured sleepily as theon slid out from under her arm and got to his feet. a few embers still smoldered in the hearth. wex slept on the floor at the foot of the bed, rolled up inside his cloak and dead to the world. nothing moved. theon crossed to the window and threw open the shutters. night touched him with cold fingers, and gooseprickles rose on his bare skin. he leaned against the stone sill and looked out on dark towers, empty yards, black sky, and more stars than a man could ever count if he lived to be a hundred. a half-moon floated above the bell tower and cast its reflection on the roof of the glass gardens. he heard no alarms, no voices, not so much as a footfall. all's well, greyjoy. hear the quiet? you ought to be drunk with joy. you took winterfell with fewer than thirty men, a feat to sing of. theon started back to bed. he'd roll kyra on her back and fuck her again, that ought to banish these phantoms. her gasps and giggles would make a welcome respite from this silence. he stopped. he had grown so used to the howling of the direwolves that he scarcely heard it anymore... but some part of him, some hunter's instinct, heard its absence. urzen stood outside his door, a sinewy man with a round shield slung over his back. the wolves are quiet, theon told him. go see what they're doing, and come straight back. the thought of the direwolves running loose gave him a queasy feeling. he remembered the day in the wolfswood when the wildlings had attacked bran. summer and grey wind had torn them to pieces. when he prodded wex with the toe of his boot, the boy sat up and rubbed his eyes. make certain bran stark and his little brother are in their beds, and be quick about it. mtord? kyra called sleepily. go back to sleep, this does not concern you. theon poured himself a cup of wine and drank it down. all the time he was listening, hoping to hear a howl. too few men, he thought sourly. i have too few men. if asha does not come... wex returned the quickest, shaking his head side to side. cursing, theon found his tunic and breeches on the floor where he had dropped them in his haste to get at kyra. over the tunic he donned a jerkin of iron-studded leather, and he belted a longsword and dagger at his waist. his hair was wild as the wood, but he had larger concerns. by then urzen was back. the wolves be gone. theon told himself he must be as cold and deliberate as lord eddard. rouse the castle, he said. herd them out into the yard, everyone, we'll see who's missing. and have lorren make a round of the gates. wex, with me. he wondered if stygg had reached deepwood motte yet. the man was not as skilled a rider as he claimed-none of the ironmen were much good in the saddle-but there'd been time enough. asha might well be on her way. and if she learns that i have lost the starks... it did not bear thinking about. bran's bedchamber was empty, as was rickon's half a turn below. theon cursed himself. he should have kept a guard on them, but he'd deemed it more important to have men walking the walls and protecting the gates than to nursemaid a couple of children, one a cripple. outside he heard sobbing as the castle folk were pulled from their beds and driven into the yard. i'll give them reason to sob. i've used them gently, and this is how they repay me. he'd even had two of his own men whipped bloody for raping that kennel girl, to show them he meant to be just. they still blame me for the rape, though. and the rest. he deemed that unfair. mikken had killed himself with his mouth, just as benfred had. as for chayle, he had to give someone to the drowned god, his men expected it. i bear you no ill will, he'd told the septon before they threw him down the well, but you and your gods have no place here now. you'd think the others might be grateful he hadn't chosen one of them, but no. he wondered how many of them were part of this plot against him. urzen returned with black lorren. the hunter's gate, lorren said. best come see. the hunter's gate was conveniently sited close to the kennels and kitchens, it opened directly on fields and forests, allowing riders to come and go without first passing through the winter town, and so was favored by hunting parties. who had the guard here? theon demanded. drennan and squint. drennan was one of the men who'd raped palla. if they've let the boys escape, i'll have more than a little skin off their back this time, i swear it. no need for that, black lorren said curtly. nor was there. they found squint floating facedown in the moat, his entrails drifting behind him like a nest of pale snakes. drennan lay half naked in the gatehouse, in the snug room where the drawbridge was worked. his throat had been opened ear to ear. a ragged tunic concealed the half-healed scars on his back, but his boots were scattered amidst the rushes, and his breeches tangled about his feet. there was cheese on a small table near the door, beside an empty flagon. and two cups. theon picked one up and sniffed at the dregs of wine in the bottom. squint was up on the wallwalk, no? aye, said lorren. theon flung the cup into the hearth. i'd say drennan was pulling down his breeches to stick it in the woman when she stuck it in him. his own cheese knife, by the look of it. someone find a pike and fish the other fool out of the moat. the other fool was in a deal worse shape than drennan. when black lorren drew him out of the water, they saw that one of his arms had been wrenched off at the elbow, half of his neck was missing, and there was a ragged hole where his navel and groin once had been. the pike tore through his bowels as lorren was pulling him in. the stench was awful. the direwolves, theon said. both of them, at a guess. disgusted, he walked back to the drawbridge. winterfell was encircled by two massive granite walls, with a wide moat between them. the outer wall stood eighty feet high, the inner more than a hundred. lacking men, theon had been forced to abandon the outer defenses and post his guards along the higher inner walls. he dared not risk having them on the wrong side of the moat should the castle rise against him. there had to be two or more, he decided. while the woman was entertaining drennan, the others freed the wolves. theon called for a torch and led them up the steps to the wallwalk. he swept the flame low before him, looking for... there. on the inside of the rampart and in the wide crenel between two upthrust merlons. blood, he announced, clumsily mopped up. at a guess, the woman killed drennan and lowered the drawbridge. squint heard the clank of chains, came to have a look, and got this far. they pushed the corpse through the crenel into the moat so he wouldn't be found by another sentry. urzen peered along the walls. the other watch turrets are not far. i see torches burning- torches, but no guards, theon said testily. winterfell has more turrets than i have men. four guards at the main gate, said black lorren, and five walking the walls beside squint. urzen said, if he had sounded his horn- i am served by fools. try and imagine it was you up here, urzen. it's dark and cold. you have been walking sentry for hours, looking forward to the end of your watch. then you hear a noise and move toward the gate, and suddenly you see eyes at the top of the stair, glowing green and gold in the torchlight. two shadows come rushing toward you faster than you can believe. you catch a glimpse of teeth, start to level your spear, and they slam into you and open your belly, tearing through leather as if it were cheesecloth. he gave urzen a hard shove. and now you're down on your back, your guts are spilling out, and one of them has his teeth around your neck. theon grabbed the man's scrawny throat, tightened his fingers, and smiled. tell me, at what moment during all of this do you stop to blow your fucking horn? he shoved urzen away roughly, sending him stumbling back against a merlon. the man rubbed his throat. i should have had those beasts put down the day we took the castle, he thought angrily. i'd seen them kill, i knew how dangerous they were. we must go after them, black lorren said. not in the dark. theon did not relish the idea of chasing direwolves through the wood by night; the hunters could easily become the hunted. we'll wait for daylight. until then, i had best go speak with my loyal subjects. down in the yard, a uneasy crowd of men, women, and children had been pushed up against the wall. many had not been given time to dress; they covered themselves with woolen blankets, or huddled naked under cloaks or bedrobes. a dozen ironmen hemmed them in, torches in one hand and weapons in the other. the wind was gusting, and the flickering orange light reflected dully off steel helms, thick beards, and unsmiling eyes. theon walked up and down before the prisoners, studying the faces. they all looked guilty to him. how many are missing? six. reek stepped up behind him, smelling of soap, his long hair moving in the wind. both starks, that bog boy and his sister, the halfwit from the stables, and your wildling woman. osha. he had suspected her from the moment he saw that second cup. i should have known better than to trust that one. she's as unnatural as asha. even their names sound alike. has anyone had a look at the stables? aggar says no horses are missing. dancer is still in his stall? dancer? reek frowned. aggar says the horses are all there. only the halfwit is missing. they're afoot, then. that was the best news he'd heard since he woke. bran would be riding in his basket on hodor's back, no doubt. osha would need to carry rickon; his little legs wouldn't take him far on their own. theon was confident that he'd soon have them back in his hands. bran and rickon have fled, he told the castle folk, watching their eyes. who knows where they've gone? no one answered. they could not have escaped without help, theon went on. without food, clothing, weapons. he had locked away every sword and axe in winterfell, but no doubt some had been hidden from him. i'll have the names of all those who aided them. all those who turned a blind eye. the only sound was the wind. come first light, i mean to bring them back. he hooked his thumbs through his swordbelt. i need huntsmen. who wants a nice warm wolfskin to see them through the winter? gage? the cook had always greeted him cheerfully when he returned from the hunt, to ask whether he'd brought anything choice for the table, but he had nothing to say now. theon walked back the way he had come, searching their faces for the least sign of guilty knowledge. the wild is no place for a cripple. and rickon, young as he is, how long will he last out there? nan, think how frightened he must be. the old woman had nattered at him for ten years, telling her endless stories, but now she gaped at him as if he were some stranger. i might have killed every man of you and given your women to my soldiers for their pleasure, but instead i protected you. is this the thanks you offer? joseth who'd groomed his horses, farlen who'd taught him all he knew of hounds, barth the brewer's wife who'd been his flrst-not one of them would meet his eyes. they hate me, he realized. reek stepped close. strip off their skins, he urged, his thick lips glistening. lord bolton, he used to say a naked man has few secrets, but a flayed man's got none. the flayed man was the sigil of house bolton, theon knew; ages past, certain of their lords had gone so far as to cloak themselves in the skins of dead enemies. a number of starks had ended thus. supposedly all that had stopped a thousand years ago, when the boltons had bent their knees to winterfell. or so they say, but old ways die hard, as well i know. there will be no flaying in the north so long as i rule in winterfell, theon said loudly. i am your only protection against the likes of him, he wanted to scream. he could not be that blatant, but perhaps some were clever enough to take the lesson. the sky was greying over the castle walls. dawn could not be far off. joseth, saddle smiler and a horse for yourself. murch, gariss, poxy tym, you'll come as well. murch and gariss were the best huntsmen in the castle, and tyrn was a fine bowman. aggar, rednose, gelmarr, reek, wex. he needed his own to watch his back. farlen, i'll want hounds, and you to handle them. the grizzled kennelmaster crossed his arms.'and why would i care to hunt down my own trueborn lords, and babes at that? theon moved close. i am your trueborn lord now, and the man who keeps palla safe. he saw the defiance die in farlen's eyes.'aye, m'lord. stepping back, theon glanced about to see who else he might add. maester luwin, he announced. i know nothing of hunting. no, but i don't trust you in the castle in my absence. then it's past time you learned. let me come too. i want that wolfskin cloak. a boy stepped forward, no older than bran. it took theon a moment to remember him. i've hunted lots of times before, walder frey said. red deer and elk, and even boar. his cousin laughed at him. he rode on a boar hunt with his father, but they never let him near the boar. theon look at the boy doubtfully. come if you like, but if you can't keep up, don't think that i'll nurse you along. he turned back to black lorren. winterfell is yours in my absence. if we do not return, do with it as you will. that bloody well ought to have them praying for my success. they assembled by the hunter's gate as the first pale rays of the sun brushed the top of the bell tower, their breath frosting in the cold morning air. gelmarr had equipped himself with a longaxe whose reach would allow him to strike before the wolves were on him. the blade was heavy enough to kill with a single blow. aggar wore steel greaves. reek arrived carrying a boar spear and an overstuffed washerwoman's sack bulging with god knows what. theon had his bow; he needed nothing else. once he had saved bran's life with an arrow. he hoped he would not need to take it with another, but if it came to that, he would. eleven men, two boys, and a dozen dogs crossed the moat. beyond the outer wall, the tracks were plain to read in the soft ground; the pawprints of the wolves, hodor's heavy tread, the shallower marks left by the feet of the two reeds. once under the trees, the stony ground and fallen leaves made the trail harder to see, but by then farlen's red bitch had the scent. the rest of the dogs were close behind, the hounds sniffing and barking, a pair of monstrous mastiffs bringing up the rear. their size and ferocity might make the difference against a cornered direwolf he'd have guessed that osha might run south to ser rodrik, but the trail led north by northwest, into the very heart of the wolfswood. theon did not like that one bit. it would be a bitter irony if the starks made for deepwood motte and delivered themselves right into asha's hands. i'd sooner have them dead, he thought bitterly. it is better to be seen as cruel than foolish. wisps of pale mist threaded between the trees. sentinels and soldier pines grew thick about here, and there was nothing as dark and gloomy as an evergreen forest. the ground was uneven, and the fallen needles disguised the softness of the turf and made the footing treacherous for the horses, so they had to go slowly. not as slowly as a man carrying a cripple, though, or a bony harridan with a four-year-old on her back. he told himself to be patient. he'd have them before the day was out. maester luwin trotted up to him as they were following a game trail along the lip of a ravine. thus far hunting seems indistinguishable from riding through the woods, my lord. theon smiled. there are similarities. but with hunting, there's blood at the end. must it be so? this flight was great folly, but will you not be merciful? these are your foster brothers we seek. no stark but robb was ever brotherly toward me, but bran and rickon have more value to me living than dead. the same is true of the reeds. moat cailin sits on the edge of the bogs. lord howland can make your uncle's occupation a visit to hell if he chooses, but so long as you hold his heirs he must stay his hand. theon had not considered that. in truth, he had scarcely considered the mudmen at all, beyond eyeing meera once or twice and wondering if she was still a maiden. you may be right. we will spare them if we can. and hodor too, i hope. the boy is simple, you know that. he does as he is told. how many times has he groomed your horse, soaped your saddle, scoured your mail? hodor was nothing to him. if he does not fight us, we will let him live. theon pointed a finger. but say one word about sparing the wildling, and you can die with her. she swore me an oath, and pissed on it. the maester inclined his head. i make no apologies for oathbreakers. do what you must. i thank you for your mercy. mercy, thought theon as luwin dropped back. there's a bloody trap. too much and they call you weak, too little and you're monstrous. yet the maester had given him good counsel, he knew. his father thought only in terms of conquest, but what good was it to take a kingdom if you could not hold it? force and fear could carry you only so far. a pity ned stark had taken his daughters south; elsewise theon could have tightened his grip on winterfell by marrying one of them. sansa was a pretty little thing too, and by now likely even ripe for bedding. but she was a thousand leagues away, in the clutches of the lannisters. a shame. the wood grew ever wilder. the pines and sentinels gave way to huge dark oaks. tangles of hawthorn concealed treacherous gullies and cuts. stony hills rose and fell. they passed a crofter's cottage, deserted and overgo wn, and skirted a flooded quarry where the still water had a sheen as grey as steel. when the dogs began to bay, theon figured the fugitives were near at hand. he spurred smiler and followed at a trot, but what he found was only the carcass of a young elk... or what remained of it. he dismounted for a closer look. the kill was still fresh, and plainly the work of wolves. the dogs sniffed round it eagerly, and one of the mastiffs buried his teeth in a haunch until farlen shouted him off. no part of this animal has been butchered, theon realized. the wolves ate, but not the men. even if osha did not want to risk a fire, she ought to have cut them a few steaks. it made no sense to leave so much good meat to rot. farlen, are you certain we're on the right trail? he demanded. could your dogs be chasing the wrong wolves? my bitch knows the smell of summer and shaggy well enough. i hope so. for your sake. less than an hour later, the trail led down a slope toward a muddy brook swollen by the recent rains. it was there the dogs lost the scent. farlen and wex waded across with the hounds and came back shaking their heads while the animals ranged up and down the far bank, sniffing. they went in here, m'lord, but i can't see where they come out, the kennelmaster said. theon dismounted and knelt beside the stream. he dipped a hand in it. the water was cold. they won't have stayed long in this, he said. take half the dogs downstream, i'll go up- wex clapped his hands together loudly. what is it? theon said. the mute boy pointed. the ground near the water was sodden and muddy. the tracks the wolves had left were plain enough. pawprints, yes. so? wex drove his heel into the mud, and pivoted his foot this way and that. it left a deep gouge. joseth understood. a man the size of hodor ought to have left a deep print in this mud, he said. more so with the weight of a boy on his back. yet the only boot prints here are our own. see for yourself. appalled, theon saw it was true. the wolves had gone into the turgid brown water alone. osha must have turned aside back of us. before the elk, most likely. she sent the wolves on by themselves, hoping we'd chase after them. he rounded on his huntsmen. if you two have played me false- there's been only the one trail, my lord, i swear it, said gariss defensively. and the direwolves would never have parted from them boys. not for long. that's so, theon thought. summer and shaggydog might have gone off to hunt, but soon or late they would return to bran and rickon. gariss, murch, take four dogs and double back, find where we lost them. aggar, you watch them, i'll have no trickery. farlen and i will follow the direwolves. give a blast on the horn when you pick up the trail. two blasts if you catch sight of the beasts themselves. once we find where they went, they'll lead us back to their masters. he took wex, the frey boy, and gynir rednose to search upstream. he and wex rode on one side of the brook, rednose and walder frey on the other, each with a pair of hounds. the wolves might have come out on either bank. theon kept an eye out for tracks, spoor, broken branches, any hint as to where the direwolves might have left the water. he spied the prints of deer, elk, and badger easily enough. wex surprised a vixen drinking at the stream, and walder flushed three rabbits from the underbrush and managed to put an arrow in one. they saw the claw marks where a bear had shredded the bark of a tall birch. but of the direwolves there was no sign. a little farther, theon told himself. past that oak, over that rise, past the next bend of the stream, we'll find something there. he pressed on long after he knew he should turn back, a growing sense of anxiety gnawing at his belly. it was midday when he wrenched smiler's head round in disgust and gave up. somehow osha and the wretched boys were eluding him. it should not have been possible, not on foot, burdened with a cripple and a young child. every passing hour increased the likelihood that they would make good their escape. if they reach a village... the people of the north would never deny ned stark's sons, robb's brothers. they'd have mounts to speed them on their way, food. men would fight for the honor of protecting them. the whole bloody north would rally around them. the wolves went downstream, that's all. he clung to that thought. that red bitch will sniff where they came out of the water and we'll be after them again. but when they joined up with farlen's party, one look at the kennelmaster's face smashed all of theon' s hopes to shards. the only thing those dogs are fit for is a bear baiting, he said angrily. would that i had a bear. the dogs are not at fault. farlen knelt between a mastiff and his precious red bitch, a hand on each. running water don't hold no scents, m'lord. the wolves had to come out of the stream somewhere. no doubt they did. upstream or down. we keep on, we'll find the place, but which way? i never knew a wolf to run up a streambed for miles, said reek. a man might. if he knew he was being hunted, he might. but a wolf? yet theon wondered. these beasts were not as other wolves. i should have skinned the cursed things. it was the same tale all over again when they rejoined gariss, murch, and aggar. the huntsmen had retraced their steps halfway to winterfell without finding any sign of where the starks might have parted company with the direwolves. farlen's hounds seemed as frustrated as their masters, sniffing forlornly at trees and rocks and snapping irritably at each other. theon dared not admit defeat. we'll return to the brook. search again. this time we'll go as far as we must. we won't find them, the frey boy said suddenly. not so long as the frogeaters are with them. mudmen are sneaks, they won't fight like decent folks, they skulk and use poison arrows, you never see them, but they see you. those who go into the bogs after them get lost and never come out. their houses move, even the castles like greywater watch. he glanced nervously at greenery that encircled them on all sides. they might be out there right now, listening to everything we say. farlen laughed to show what he thought of that notion. my dogs would smell anything in them bushes. be all over them before you could break wind, boy. frogeaters don't smell like men, frey insisted. they have a boggy stink, like frogs and trees and scummy water. moss grows under their arms in place of hair, and they can live with nothing to eat but mud and breathe swamp water. theon was about to tell him what he ought to do with his wet nurse's fable when maester luwin spoke up. the histories say the crannogmen grew close to the children of the forest in the days when the greenseers tried to bring the hammer of the waters down upon the neck. it may be that they have secret knowledge. suddenly the wood seemed a deal darker than it had a moment before, as if a cloud had passed before the sun. it was one thing to have some fool boy spouting folly, but maesters were supposed to be wise. the only children that concern me are bran and rickon, theon said. back to the stream. now. for a moment he did not think they were going to obey, but in the end old habit asserted itself. they followed sullenly, but they followed. the frey boy was as jumpy as those rabbits he'd flushed earlier. theon put men on either bank and followed the current. they rode for miles, going slow and careful, dismounting to lead the horses over treacherous ground, letting the good- for-bear-bait hounds sniff at every bush. where a fallen tree dammed the flow, the hunters were forced to loop around a deep green pool, but if the direwolves had done the same they'd left neither print nor spoor. the beasts had taken to swimming, it seemed. when i catch them, they'll have all the swimming they can stomach. i'll give them both to the drowned god. when the woods began to darken, theon greyjoy knew he was beaten. either the crannogmen did know the magic of the children of the forest, or else osha had deceived them with some wildling trick. he made them press on through the dusk, but when the last light faded joseth finally worked up the courage to say, this is fruitless, my lord. we will lame a horse, break a leg. joseth has the right of it, said maester luwin. groping through the woods by torchlight will avail us nothing. theon could taste bile at the back of his throat, and his stomach was a nest of snakes twining and snapping at each other. if he crept back to winterfell empty-handed, he might as well dress in motley henceforth and wear a pointed hat; the whole north would know him for a fool. and when my father hears, and asha... mtord prince. reek urged his horse near. might be them starks never came this way. if i was them, i would have gone north and east, maybe. to the umbers. good stark men, they are. but their lands are a long way. the boys will shelter someplace nearer. might be i know where. theon looked at him suspiciously. tell me. you know that old mill, sitting lonely on the acorn water? we stopped there when i was being dragged to winterfell a captive. the miller's wife sold us hay for our horses while that old knight clucked over her brats. might be the starks are hiding there. theon knew the mill. he had even tumbled the miller's wife a time or two. there was nothing special about it, or her. why there? there are a dozen villages and holdfasts just as close. amusement shone in those pale eyes. why? now that's past knowing. but they're there, i have a feeling. he was growing sick of the man's sly answers. his lips look like two worms fucking. what are you saying? if you've kept some knowledge from me- mtord prince? reek dismounted, and beckoned theon to do the same. when they were both afoot, he pulled open the cloth sack he'd fetched from winterfell. have a look here. it was growing hard to see. theon thrust his hand into the sack impatiently, groping amongst soft fur and rough scratchy wool. a sharp point pricked his skin, and his fingers closed around something cold and hard. he drew out a wolf s-head brooch, silver and jet. understanding came suddenly. his hand closed into a fist. gelmarr, he said, wondering whom he could trust. none of them. aggar. rednose. with us. the rest of you may return to winterfell with the hounds. i'll have no further need of them. i know where bran and rickon are hiding now. prince theon, maester luwin entreated, you will remember your promise? mercy, you said. mercy was for this morning, said theon. it is better to be feared than laughed at. before they made me angry. the sky was a gloom of cloud, the woods dead and frozen. roots grabbed at theon's feet as he ran, and bare branches lashed his face, leaving thin stripes of blood across his cheeks. he crashed through heedless, breathless, icicles flying to pieces before him. mercy, he sobbed. from behind came a shuddering howl that curdled his blood. mercy, mercy. when he glanced back over his shoulder he saw them coming, great wolves the size of horses with the heads of small children. oh, mercy, mercy. blood dripped from their mouths black as pitch, burning holes in the snow where it fell. every stride brought them closer. theon tried to run faster, but his legs would not obey. the trees all had faces, and they were laughing at him, laughing, and the howl came again. he could smell the hot breath of the beasts behind him, a stink of brimstone and corruption. they're dead, dead, i saw them killed, he tried to shout, i saw their heads dipped in tar, but when he opened his mouth only a moan emerged, and then something touched him and he whirled, shouting... ...flailing for the dagger he kept by his bedside and managing only to knock it to the floor. wex danced away from him. reek stood behind the mute, his face lit from below by the candle he carried. what? theon cried. mercy. what do you want? why are you in my bedchamber? why? my lord prince, said reek, your sister has come to winterfell. you asked to be informed at once if she arrived. past time, theon muttered, pushing his fingers through his hair. he had begun to fear that asha meant to leave him to his fate. mercy. he glanced outside the window, where the first vague light of dawn was just brushing the towers of winterfell. where is she? lorren took her and her men to the great hall to break their fast. will you see her now? yes. theon pushed off the blankets. the fire had burned down to embers. wex, hot water. he could not let asha see him disheveled and soaked with sweat. wolves with children's faces... he shivered. close the shutters. the bedchamber felt as cold as the dream forest had been. all his dreams had been cold of late, and each more hideous than the one before. last night he had dreamed himself back in the mill again, on his knees dressing the dead. their limbs were already stiffening, so they seemed to resist sullenly as he fumbled at them with half- frozen fingers, tugging up breeches and knotting laces, yanking fur-trimmed boots over hard unbending feet, buckling a studded leather belt around a waist no bigger than the span of his hands. this was never what i wanted, he told them as he worked. they gave me no choice. the corpses made no answer, but only grew colder and heavier. the night before, it had been the miller's wife. theon had forgotten her name, but he remembered her body, soft pillowy breasts and stretch marks on her belly, the way she clawed his back when he fucked her. last night in his dream he had been in bed with her once again, but this time she had teeth above and below, and she tore out his throat even as she was gnawing off his manhood. it was madness. he'd seen her die too. gelmarr had cut her down with one blow of his axe as she cried to theon for mercy. leave me, woman. it was him who killed you, not me. and he's dead as well. at least gelmarr did not haunt theon's sleep. the dream had receded by the time wex returned with the water. theon washed the sweat and sleep from his body and took his own good time dressing. asha had let him wait long enough; now it was her turn. he chose a satin tunic striped black and gold and a fine leather jerkin with silver studs... and only then remembered that his wretched sister put more stock in blades than beauty. cursing, he tore off the clothes and dressed again, in felted black wool and ringmail. around his waist he buckled sword and dagger, remembering the night she had humiliated him at his own father's table. her sweet suckling babe, yes. well, i have a knife too, and know how to use it. last of all, he donned his crown, a band of cold iron slim as a finger, set with heavy chunks of black diamond and nuggets of gold. it was misshapen and ugly, but there was no help for that. mikken lay buried in the lichyard, and the new smith was capable of little more than nails and horseshoes. theon consoled himself with the reminder that it was only a prince's crown. he would have something much finer when he was crowned king. outside his door, reek waited with urzen and kromm. theon fell in with them. these days, he took guards with him everywhere he went, even to the privy. winterfell wanted him dead. the very night they had returned from acorn water, gelmarr the grim had tumbled down some steps and broken his back. the next day, aggar turned up with his throat slit ear to ear. gynir rednose became so wary that he shunned wine, took to sleeping in byrnie, coif, and helm, and adopted the noisiest dog in the kennels to give him warning should anyone try to steal up on his sleeping place. all the same, one morning the castle woke to the sound of the little dog barking wildly. they found the pup racing around the well, and rednose floating in it, drowned. he could not let the killings go unpunished. farlen was as likely a suspect as any, so theon sat in judgment, called him guilty, and condemned him to death. even that went sour. as he knelt to the block, the kennelmaster said, mtord eddard always did his own killings. theon had to take the axe himself or look a weakling. his hands were sweating, so the shaft twisted in his grip as he swung and the first blow landed between farlen's shoulders. it took three more cuts to hack through all that bone and muscle and sever the head from the body, and afterward he was sick, remembering all the times they'd sat over a cup of mead talking of hounds and hunting. i had no choice, he wanted to scream at the corpse. the ironborn can't keep secrets, they had to die, and someone had to take the blame for it. he only wished he had killed him cleaner. ned stark had never needed more than a single blow to take a man's head. the killings stopped after farlen's death, but even so his men continued sullen and anxious. they fear no foe in open battle, black lorren told him, but it is another thing to dwell among enemies, never knowing if the washerwoman means to kiss you or kill you, or whether the serving boy is filling your cup with ale or bale. we would do well to leave this place. i am the prince of winterfell! theon had shouted. this is my seat, no man will drive me from it. no, nor woman either! asha. it was her doing. my own sweet sister, may the others bugger her with a sword. she wanted him dead, so she could steal his place as their father's heir. that was why she had let him languish here, ignoring the urgent commands he had sent her. he found her in the high seat of the starks, ripping a capon apart with her fingers. the hall rang with the voices of her men, sharing stories with theon's own as they drank together. they were so loud that his entrance went all but unnoticed. where are the rest? he demanded of reek. there were no more than fifty men at the trestle tables, most of them his. winterfelps great hall could have seated ten times the number. this is the whole o' the company, m'lord prince. the whole-how many men did she bring? twenty, by my count. theon greyjoy strode to where his sister was sprawled. asha was laughing at something one of her men had said, but broke off at his approach. why,'tis the prince of winterfell. she tossed a bone to one of the dogs sniffing about the hall. under that hawk's beak of a nose, her wide mouth twisted in a mocking grin. or is it prince of fools? envy ill becomes a maid. asha sucked grease from her fingers. a lock of black hair fell across her eyes. her men were shouting for bread and bacon. they made a deal of noise, as few as they were. envy, theon? what else would you call it? with thirty men, i captured winterfell in a night. you needed a thousand and a moon's turn to take deepwood motte. well, i'm no great warrior like you, brother, she quaffed half a horn of ale and wiped her mouth with the back of her hand. i saw the heads above your gates. tell me true, which one gave you the fiercest fight, the cripple or the babe? theon could feel the blood rushing to his face. he took no joy from those heads, no more than he had in displaying the headless bodies of the children before the castle. old nan stood with her soft toothless mouth opening and closing soundlessly, and farlen threw himself at theon, snarling like one of his hounds. urzen and cadwyl had to beat him senseless with the butts of their spears. how did i come to this- he remembered thinking as he stood over the fly-speckled bodies. only maester luwin had the stomach to come near. stone-faced, the small grey man had begged leave to sew the boys' heads back onto their shoulders, so they might be laid in the crypts below with the other stark dead. no, theon had told him. not the crypts. but why, my lord? surely they cannot harm you now. it is where they belong. all the bones of the starks- i said no. he needed the heads for the wall, but he had burned the headless bodies that very day, in all their finery. afterward he had knelt amongst the bones and ashes to retrieve a slag of melted silver and cracked jet, all that remained of the wolf s-head brooch that had once been bran's. he had it still. i treated bran and rickon generously, he told his sister. they brought their fate on themselves. as do we all, little brother. his patience was at an end. how do you expect me to hold winterfell if you bring me only twenty men? ten, asha corrected. the others return with me. you wouldn't want your own sweet sister to brave the dangers of the wood without an escort, would you? there are direwolves prowling the dark. she uncoiled from the great stone seat and rose to her feet. come, let us go somewhere we can speak more privily. she was right, he knew, though it galled him that she would make that decision. i should never have come to the hall, he realized belatedly. i should have summoned her to me. it was too late for that now, however. theon had no choice but to lead asha to ned stark's solar. there, before the ashes of a dead fire, he blurted, dagmer's lost the fight at torrhen's square- the old castellan broke his shield wall, yes, asha said calmly. what did you expect? this ser rodrik knows the land intimately, as the cleftjaw does not, and many of the northmen were mounted. the ironborn lack the discipline to stand a charge of armored horse. dagmer lives, be grateful for that much. he's leading the survivors back toward the stony shore. she knows more than i do, theon realized. that only made him angrier. the victory has given leobald tallhart the courage to come out from behind his walls and join ser rodrik. and i've had reports that lord manderly has sent a dozen barges upriver packed with knights, warhorses, and siege engines. the umbers are gathering beyond the last river as well. i'll have an army at my gates before the moon turns, and you bring me only ten men? i need not have brought you any. i commanded you- father commanded me to take deepwood motte, she snapped. he said nothing of me having to rescue my little brother. bugger deepwood, he said. it's a wooden pisspot on a hill. winterfell is the heart of the land, but how am i to hold it without a garrison?  you might have thought of that before you took it. oh, it was cleverly done, i'll grant you. if only you'd had the good sense to raze the castle and carry the two little princelings back to pyke as hostages, you might have won the war in a stroke. you'd like that, wouldn't you? to see my prize reduced to ruins and ashes. your prize will be the doom of you. krakens rise from the sea, theon, or did you forget that during your years among the wolves? our strength is in our longships. my wooden pisspot sits close enough to the sea for supplies and fresh men to reach me whenever they are needful. but winterfell is hundreds of leagues inland, ringed by woods, hills, and hostile holdfasts and castles. and every man in a thousand leagues is your enemy now, make no mistake. you made certain of that when you mounted those heads on your gatehouse. asha shook her head. how could you be such a bloody fool? children... they defied me! he shouted in her face. and it was blood for blood besides, two sons of eddard stark to pay for rodrik and maron. the words tumbled out heedlessly, but theon knew at once that his father would approve. i've laid my brothers' ghosts to rest. our brothers, asha reminded him, with a half smile that suggested she took his talk of vengeance well salted. did you bring their ghosts from pyke, brother? and here i thought they haunted only father. when has a maid ever understood a man's need for revenge? even if his father did not appreciate the gift of winterfell, he must approve of theon avenging his brothers! asha snorted back a laugh. this ser rodrik may well feel the same manly need, did you think of that? you are blood of my blood, theon, whatever else you may be. for the sake of the mother who bore us both, return to deepwood motte with me. put winterfell to the torch and fall back while you still can. no. theon adjusted his crown. i took this castle and i mean to hold it. his sister looked at him a long time. then hold it you shall, she said, for the rest of your life. she sighed. i say it tastes like folly, but what would a shy maid know of such things? at the door she gave him one last mocking smile. you ought to know, that's the ugliest crown i've ever laid eyes on. did you make it yourself? she left him fuming, and lingered no longer than was needful to feed and water her horses. half the men she'd brought returned with her as threatened, riding out the same hunter's gate that bran and rickon had used for their escape. theon watched them go from atop the wall. as his sister vanished into the mists of the wolfswood he found himself wondering why he had not listened and gone with her. gone, has she? reek was at his elbow. theon had not heard him approach, nor smelled him either. he could not think of anyone he wanted to see less. it made him uneasy to see the man walking around breathing, with what he knew. i should have had him killed after he did the others, he reflected, but the notion made him nervous. unlikely as it seemed, reek could read and write, and he was possessed of enough base cunning to have hidden an account of what they'd done. mtord prince, if you'll pardon me saying, it's not right for her to abandon you. and ten men, that won't be near enough. i am well aware of that, theon said. so was asha. well, might be i could help you, said reek. give me a horse and bag o' coin, and i could find you some good fellows. theon narrowed his eyes. how many? a hundred, might be. two hundred. maybe more. he smiled, his pale eyes glinting. i was born up north here. i know many a man, and many a man knows reek. two hundred men were not an army, but you didn't need thousands to hold a castle as strong as winterfell. so long as they could learn which end of a spear did the killing, they might make all the difference. do as you say and you'll not find me ungrateful. you can name your own reward. well, m'lord, i haven't had no woman since i was with lord ramsay, reek said. i've had my eye on that palla, and i hear she's already been had, so... he had gone too far with reek to turn back now. two hundred men and she's yours. but a man less and you can go back to fucking pigs. reek was gone before the sun went down, carrying a bag of stark silver and the last of theon's hopes. like as not, i'll never see the wretch again, he thought bitterly, but even so the chance had to be taken. that night he dreamed of the feast ned stark had thrown when king robert came to winterfell. the hall rang with music and laughter, though the cold winds were rising outside. at first it was all wine and roast meat, and theon was making japes and eyeing the serving girls and having himself a fine time... until he noticed that the room was growing darker. the music did not seem so jolly then; he heard discords and strange silences, and notes that hung in the air bleeding. suddenly the wine turned bitter in his mouth, and when he looked up from his cup he saw that he was dining with the dead. king robert sat with his guts spilling out on the table from the great gash in his belly, and lord eddard was headless beside him. corpses lined the benches below, grey-brown flesh sloughing off their bones as they raised their cups to toast, worms crawling in and out of the holes that were their eyes. he knew them, every one; jory cassel and fat tom, porther and cayn and hullen the master of horse, and all the others who had ridden south to king's landing never to return. mikken and chayle sat together, one dripping blood and the other water. benfred tallhart and his wild hares filled most of a table. the miller's wife was there as well, and farlen, even the wildling theon had killed in the wolfswood the day he had saved bran's life. but there were others with faces he had never known in life, faces he had seen only in stone. the slim, sad girl who wore a crown of pale blue roses and a white gown spattered with gore could only be lyanna. her brother brandon stood beside her, and their father lord rickard just behind. along the walls figures halfseen moved through the shadows, pale shades with long grim faces. the sight of them sent fear shivering through theon sharp as a knife. and then the tall doors opened with a crash, and a freezing gale blew down the hall, and robb came walking out of the night. grey wind stalked beside, eyes burning, and man and wolf alike bled from half a hundred savage wounds. theon woke with a scream, startling wex so badly that the boy ran naked from the room. when his guards burst in with drawn swords, he ordered them to bring him the maester. by the time luwin arrived rumpled and sleepy, a cup of wine had steadied theon's hands, and he was feeling ashamed of his panic. a dream, he muttered, that was all it was. it meant nothing. nothing, luwin agreed solemnly. he left a sleeping draught, but theon poured it down the privy shaft the moment he was gone. luwin was a man as well as a maester, and the man had no love for him. he wants me to sleep, yes... to sleep and never wake. he'd like that as much as asha would. he sent for kyra, kicked shut the door, climbed on top of her, and fucked the wench with a fury he'd never known was in him, by the time he finished, she was sobbing, her neck and breasts covered with bruises and bite marks. theon shoved her from the bed and threw her a blanket. get out. yet even then, he could not sleep. come dawn, he dressed and went outside, to walk along the outer walls. a brisk autumn wind was swirling through the battlements. it reddened his cheeks and stung his eyes. he watched the forest go from grey to green below him as light filtered through the silent trees. on his left he could see tower tops above the inner wall, their roofs gilded by the rising sun. the red leaves of the weirwood were a blaze of flame among the green. ned stark's tree, he thought, and stark's wood, stark's castle, stark's sword, stark's gods. this is their place, not mine. i am a greyjoy of pyke, born to paint a kraken on my shield and sail the great salt sea. i should have gone with asha. on their iron spikes atop the gatehouse, the heads waited. theon gazed at them silently while the wind tugged on his cloak with small ghostly hands. the miller's boys had been of an age with bran and rickon, alike in size and coloring, and once reek had flayed the skin from their faces and dipped their heads in tar, it was easy to see familiar features in those misshapen lumps of rotting flesh. people were such fools. if we'd said they were rams' heads, they would have seen horns. maester luwin came to him when the first scouts were seen outside the walls. my lord prince, he said, you must yield. theon stared at the platter of oakcakes, honey, and blood sausage they'd brought him to break his fast. another sleepless night had left his nerves raw, and the very sight of food sickened him. there has been no reply from my uncle? none, the maester said. nor from your father on pyke. send more birds. it will not serve. by the time the birds reach- send them! knocking the platter of food aside with a swipe of his arm, he pushed off the blankets and rose from ned stark's bed naked and angry. or do you want me dead? is that it, luwin? the truth now. the small grey man was unafraid. my order serves. yes, but whom? the realm, maester luwin said, and winterfell. theon, once i taught you sums and letters, history and warcraft. and might have taught you more, had you wished to learn. i will not claim to bear you any great love, no, but i cannot hate you either. even if i did, so long as you hold winterfell i am bound by oath to give you counsel. so now i counsel you to yield. theon stooped to scoop a puddled cloak off the floor, shook off the rushes, and draped it over his shoulders. a fire, i'll have a fire, and clean garb. where's wex? i'll not po to my grave in dirty clothes. you have no hope of holding here, the maester went on. if your lord father meant to send you aid, he would have done so by now. it is the neck that concerns him. the battle for the north will be fought amidst the ruins of moat cailin. that may be so, said theon. and so long as i hold winterfell, ser rodrik and stark's lords bannermen cannot march south to take my uncle in the rear. i am not so innocent of warcraft as you think, old man. i have food enough to stand a year's siege, if need be. there will be no siege. perhaps they will spend a day or two fashioning ladders and tying grapnels to the ends of ropes. but soon enough they will come over your walls in a hundred places at once. you may be able to hold the keep for a time, but the castle will fall within the hour. you would do better to open your gates and ask for mercy? i know what kind of mercy they have for me. there is a way. i am ironborn, theon reminded him. i have my own way. what choice have they left me? no, don't answer, i've heard enough of your counsel. go and send those birds as i commanded, and tell lorren i want to see him. and wex as well. i'll have my mail scoured clean, and my garrison assembled in the yard. for a moment he thought the maester was going to defy him. but finally luwin bowed stiffly. as you command. they made a pitifully small assembly; the ironmen were few, the yard large. the northmen will be on us before nightfall, he told them. ser rodrik cassel and all the lords who have come to his call. i will not run from them. i took this castle and i mean to hold it, to live or die as prince of winterfell. but i will not command any man to die with me. if you leave now, before ser rodrik's main force is upon us, there's still a chance you may win free. he unsheathed his longsword and drew a line in the dirt. those who would stay and fight, step forward. no one spoke. the men stood in their mail and fur and boiled leather, as still as if they were made of stone. a few exchanged looks. urzen shuffled his feet. dykk harlaw hawked and spat. a finger of wind ruffled endehar's long fair hair. theon felt as though he were drowning. why am i surprised? he thought bleakly. his father had forsaken him, his uncles, his sister, even that wretched creature reek. why should his men prove any more loyal? there was nothing to say, nothing to do. he could only stand there beneath the great grey walls and the hard white sky, sword in hand, waiting, waiting... wex was the first to cross the line. three quick steps and he stood at theon's side, slouching. shamed by the boy, black lorren followed, all scowls. who else? he demanded. red rolfe came forward. kromm. werlag. tymor and his brothers. ulf the 111. harrag sheepstealer. four harlaws and two botleys. kenned the whale was the last. seventeen in all. urzen was among those who did not move, and stygg, and every man of the ten that asha had brought from deepwood motte. go, then, theon told them. run to my sister. she'll give you all a warm welcome, i have no doubt. stygg had the grace at least to look ashamed. the rest moved off without a word. theon turned to the seventeen who remained. back to the walls. if the gods should spare us, i shall remember every man of you. black lorren stayed when the others had gone. the castle folk will turn on us soon as the fight begins. i know that. what would you have me do? put them out, said lorren. every one. theon shook his head. is the noose ready? it is. you mean to use it? do you know a better way? aye. i'll take my axe and stand on that drawbridge, and let them come try me. one at a time, two, three, it makes no matter. none will pass the moat while i still draw breath. he means to die, thought theon. it's not victory he wants, it's an end worthy of a song. we'll use the noose. as you say, lorren replied, contempt in his eyes. wex helped garb him for battle. beneath his black surcoat and golden mantle was a shirt of well-oiled ringmail, and under that a layer of stiff boiled leather. once armed and armored, theon climbed the watchtower at the angle where the eastern and southern walls came together to have a look at his doom. the northmen were spreading out to encircle the castle. it was hard to judge their numbers. a thousand at least; perhaps twice that many. against seventeen. they'd brought catapults and scorpions. he saw no siege towers rumbling up the kingsroad, but there was timber enough in the wolfswood to build as many as were required. theon studied their banners through maester luwin's myrish lens tube. the cerwyn battle-axe flapped bravely wherever he looked, and there were tallhart trees as well, and mermen from white harbor. less common were the sigils of flint and karstark. here and there he even saw the bull moose of the hornwoods. but no glovers, asha saw to them, no boltons from the dreadfort, no umbers come down from the shadow of the wall. not that they were needed. soon enough the boy cley cerwyn appeared before the gates carrying a peace banner on a tall staff, to announce that ser rodrik cassel wished to parley with theon turncloak. turncloak. the name was bitter as bile. he had gone to pyke to lead his father's longships against lannisport, he remembered. i shall be out shortly, he shouted down. alone. black lorren disapproved. only blood can wash out blood, he declared. knights may keep their truces with other knights, but they are not so careful of their honor when dealing with those they deem outlaw. theon bristled. i am the prince of winterfell and heir to the iron islands. now go find the girl and do as i told you. black lorren gave him a murderous look. aye, prince. he's turned against me too, theon realized. of late it seemed to him as if the very stones of winterfell had turned against him. if i die, i die friendless and abandoned. what choice did that leave him, but to live? he rode to the gatehouse with his crown on his head. a woman was drawing water from the well, and gage the cook stood in the door of the kitchens. they hid their hatred behind sullen looks and faces blank as slate, yet he could feel it all the same. when the drawbridge was lowered, a chill wind sighed across the moat. the touch of it made him shiver. it is the cold, nothing more, theon told himself, a shiver, not a tremble. even brave men shiver. into the teeth of that wind he rode, under the portcullis, over the drawbridge. the outer gates swung open to let him pass. as he emerged beneath the walls, he could sense the boys watching from the empty sockets where their eyes had been. ser rodrik waited in the market astride his dappled gelding. beside him, the direwolf of stark flapped from a staff borne by young cley cerwyn. they were alone in the square, though theon could see archers on the roofs of surrounding houses, spearmen to his right, and to his left a line of mounted knights beneath the merman-and-trident of house manderly. every one of them wants me dead. some were boys he'd drunk with, diced with, even wenched with, but that would not save him if he fell into their hands. ser rodrik. theon reined to a halt. it grieves me that we must meet as foes. my own grief is that i must wait a while to hang you. the old knight spat onto the muddy ground. theon turncloak. i am a greyjoy of pyke, theon reminded him. the cloak my father swaddled me in bore a kraken, not a direwolf. for ten years you have been a ward of stark. hostage and prisoner, i call it. then perhaps lord eddard should have kept you chained to a dungeon wall. instead he raised you among his own sons, the sweet boys you have butchered, and to my undying shame i trained you in the arts of war. would that i had thrust a sword through your belly instead of placing one in your hand. i came out to parley, not to suffer your insults. say what you have to say, old man. what would you have of me? two things, the old man said. winterfell, and your life. command your men to open the gates and lay down their arms. those who murdered no children shall be free to walk away, but you shall be held for king robb's justice. may the gods take pity on you when he returns. robb will never look on winterfell again, theon promised. he will break himself on moat cailin, as every southron army has done for ten thousand years. we hold the north now, ser. you hold three castles, replied ser rodrik, and this one i mean to take back, turncloak. theon ignored that. here are my terms. you have until evenfall to disperse. those who swear fealty to balon greyjoy as their king and to myself as prince of winterfell will be confirmed in their rights and properties and suffer no harm. those who defy us will be destroyed. young cerwyn was incredulous. are you mad, greyjoy? ser rodrik shook his head. only vain, lad. theon has always had too lofty an opinion of himself, i fear. the old man jabbed a finger at him. do not imagine that i need wait for robb to fight his way up the neck to deal with the likes of you. i have near two thousand men with me... and if the tales be true, you have no more than fifty. seventeen, in truth. theon made himself smile. i have something better than men. and he raised a fist over his head, the signal black lorren had been told to watch for. the walls of winterfell were behind him, but ser rodrik faced them squarely and could not fail to see. theon watched his face. when his chin quivered under those stiff white whiskers, he knew just what the old man was seeing. he is not surprised, he thought with sadness, but the fear is there. this is craven, ser rodrik said. to use a child so... this is despicable. oh, i know, said theon. it's a dish i tasted myself, or have you forgotten? i was ten when i was taken from my father's house, to make certain he would raise no more rebellions. it is not the same! theon's face was impassive. the noose i wore was not made of hempen rope, that's true enough, but i felt it all the same. and it chafed, ser rodrik. it chafed me raw. he had never quite realized that until now, but as the words came spilling out he saw the truth of them. no harm was ever done you. and no harm will be done your beth, so long as you- ser rodrik never gave him the chance to finish. viper, the knight declared, his face red with rage beneath those white whiskers. i gave you the chance to save your men and die with some small shred of honor, turncloak. i should have known that was too much to ask of a childkiller. his hand went to the hilt of his sword. i ought cut you down here and now and put an end to your lies and deceits. by the gods, i should. theon did not fear a doddering old man, but those watching archers and that line of knights were a different matter. if the swords came out his chances of getting back to the castle alive were small to none. forswear your oath and murder me, and you will watch your little beth strangle at the end of a rope. ser rodrik's knuckles had gone white, but after a moment he took his hand off the swordhilt. truly, i have lived too long. i will not disagree, ser. will you accept my terms? i have a duty to lady catelyn and house stark. and your own house? beth is the last of your blood. the old knight drew himself up straight. i offer myself in my daughter's place. release her, and take me as your hostage. surely the castellan of winterfell is worth more than a child. not to me. a valiant gesture, old man, but i am not that great a fool. not to lord manderly or leobald tallhart either, i'd wager. your sorry old skin is worth no more to them than any other man's. no, i'll keep the girl... and keep her safe, so long as you do as i've commanded you. her life is in your hands. gods be good, theon, how can you do this? you know i must attack, have sworn...  if this host is still in arms before my gate when the sun sets, beth will hang, said theon. another hostage will follow her to the grave at first light, and another at sunset. every dawn and every dusk will mean a death, until you are gone. i have no lack of hostages. he did not wait for a reply, but wheeled smiler around and rode back toward the castle. he went slowly at first, but the thought of those archers at his back soon drove him to a canter. the small heads watched him come from their spikes, their tarred and flayed faces looming larger with every yard; between them stood little beth cassel, noosed and crying. theon put his heel into smiler and broke into a hard gallop. smiler' s hooves clattered on the drawbridge, like drumbeats. in the yard he dismounted and handed his reins to wex. it may stay them, he told black lorren. we'll know by sunset. take the girl in till then, and keep her somewhere safe. under the layers of leather, steel, and wool, he was slick with sweat. i need a cup of wine. a vat of wine would do even better. a fire had been laid in ned stark's bedchamber. theon sat beside it and filled a cup with a heavy-bodied red from the castle vaults, a wine as sour as his mood. they will attack, he thought gloomily, staring at the flames. ser rodrik loves his daughter, but he is still castellan, and most of all a knight. had it been theon with a noose around his neck and lord balon commanding the army without, the warhorns would already have sounded the attack, he had no doubt. he should thank the gods that ser rodrik was not ironborn. the men of the green lands were made of softer stuff, though he was not certain they would prove soft enough. if not, if the old man gave the command to storm the castle regardless, winterfell would fall; theon entertained no delusions on that count. his seventeen might kill three, four, five times their own number, but in the end they would be overwhelmed. theon stared at the flames over the rim of his wine goblet, brooding on the injustice of it all. i rode beside robb stark in the whispering wood, he muttered. he had been frightened that night, but not like this. it was one thing to go into battle surrounded by friends, and another to perish alone and despised. mercy, he thought miserably. when the wine brought no solace, theon sent wex to fetch his bow and took himself to the old inner ward. there he stood, loosing shaft after shaft at the archery butts until his shoulders ached and his fingers were bloody, pausing only long enough to pull the arrows from the targets for another round. i saved bran's life with this bow, he reminded himself. would that i could save my own. women came to the well, but did not linger; whatever they saw on theon's face sent them away quickly. behind him the broken tower stood, its summit as jagged as a crown where fire had collapsed the upper stories long ago. as the sun moved, the shadow of the tower moved as well, gradually lengthening, a black arm reaching out for theon greyjoy. by the time the sun touched the wall, he was in its grasp. if i hang the girl, the northmen will attack at once, he thought as he loosed a shaft. if i do not hang her, they will know my threats are empty. he knocked another arrow to his bow. there is no way out, none. if you had a hundred archers as good as yourself, you might have a chance to hold the castle, a voice said softly. when he turned, maester luwin was behind him. go away, theon told him. i have had enough of your counsel. and life? have you had enough of that, my lord prince? he raised the bow. one more word and i'll put this shaft through your heart. you won't. theon bent the bow, drawing the grey goose feathers back to his cheek. care to make a wager? i am your last hope, theon. i have no hope, he thought. yet he lowered the bow half an inch and said, i will not run. i do not speak of running. take the black. the night's watch? theon let the bow unbend slowly and pointed the arrow at the ground. ser rodrik has served house stark all his life, and house stark has always been a friend to the watch. he will not deny you. open your gates, lay down your arms, accept his terms, and he must let you take the black. a brother of the night's watch. it meant no crown, no sons, no wife... but it meant life, and life with honor. ned stark's own brother had chosen the watch, and jon snow as well. i have black garb aplenty, once i tear the krakens off even my horse is black. i could rise high in the watch-chief of rangers, likely even lord commander. let asha keep the bloody islands, they're as dreary as she is. if i served at eastwatch, i could command my own ship, and there's fine hunting beyond the wall. as for women, what wildling woman wouldn't want a prince in her bed? a slow smile crept across his face, a black cloak can't be turned. i'd be as good as any man... prince theon! the sudden shout shattered his daydream. kromm was loping across the ward. the northmen- he felt a sudden sick sense of dread. is it the attack? maester luwin clutched his arm. there's still time. raise a peace banner- they're fighting, kromm said urgently. more men came up, hundreds of them, and at first they made to join the others. but now they've fallen on them! is it asha? had she come to save him after all? but kromm gave a shake of his head. no. these are northmen, i tell you. with a bloody man on their banner. the flayed man of the dreadfort. reek had belonged to the bastard of bolton before his capture, theon recalled, it was hard to believe that a vile creature like him could sway the boltons to change their allegiance, but nothing else made sense. i'll see this for myself, theon said. maester luwin trailed after him. by the time they reached the battlements, dead men and dying horses were strewn about the market square outside the gates. he saw no battle lines, only a swirling chaos of banners and blades. shouts and screams rang through the cold autumn air. ser rodrik seemed to have the numbers, but the dreadfort men were better led, and had taken the others unawares. theon watched them charge and wheel and charge again, chopping the larger force to bloody pieces every time they tried to form up between the houses. he could hear the crash of iron axeheads on oaken shields over the terrified trumpeting of a maimed horse. the inn was burning, he saw. black lorren appeared beside him and stood silently for a time. the sun was low in the west, painting the fields and houses all a glowing red. a thin wavering cry of pain drifted over the walls, and a warhorn sounded off beyond the burning houses. theon watched a wounded man drag himself painfully across the ground, smearing his life's blood in the dirt as he struggled to reach the well that stood at the center of the market square. he died before he got there. he wore a leather jerkin and conical halfhelm, but no badge to tell which side he'd fought on. the crows came in the blue dust, with the evening stars. the dothraki believe the stars are spirits of the valiant dead, theon said. maester luwin had told him that, a long time ago. dothraki? the horselords across the narrow sea. oh. them. black lorren frowned through his beard. savages believe all manner of foolish things. as the night grew darker and the smoke spread it was harder to make out what was happening below, but the din of steel gradually diminished to nothing, and the shouts and warhorns gave way to moans and piteous wailing. finally a column of mounted men rode out of the drifting smoke. at their head was a knight in dark armor. his rounded helm gleamed a sullen red, and a pale pink cloak streamed from his shoulders. outside the main gate he reined up, and one of his men shouted for the castle to open. are you friend or foe? black lorren bellowed down. would a foe bring such fine gifts? red helm waved a hand, and three corpses were dumped in front of the gates. a torch was waved above the bodies, so the defenders upon the walls might see the faces of the dead. the old castellan, said black lorren. with leobald tallhart and cley cerwyn. the boy lord had taken an arrow in the eye, and ser rodrik had lost his left arm at the elbow. maester luwin gave a wordless cry of dismay, turned away from the battlements, and fell to his knees sick. the great pig manderly was too craven to leave white harbor, or we would have brought him as well, shouted red helm. i am saved, theon thought. so why did he feel so empty? this was victory, sweet victory, the deliverance he had prayed for. he glanced at maester luwin. to think how close i came to yielding, and taking the black... open the gates for our friends. perhaps tonight theon would sleep without fear of what his dreams might bring. the dreadfort men made their way across the moat and through the inner gates. theon descended with black lorren and maester luwin to meet them in the yard. pale red permons trailed from the ends of a few lances, but many more carried battle-axes and greatswords and shields hacked half to splinters. how many men did you lose? theon asked red helm as he dismounted. twenty or thirty. the torchlight glittered off the chipped enamel of his visor. his helm and gorget were wrought in the shape of a man's face and shoulders, skinless and bloody, mouth open in a silent howl of anguish. ser rodrik had you five-to-one. aye, but he thought us friends. a common mistake. when the old fool gave me his hand, i took half his arm instead. then i let him see my face. the man put both hands to his helm and lifted it off his head, holding it in the crook of his arm. reek, theon said, disquieted. how did a serving man get such fine armor? the man laughed. the wretch is dead. he stepped closer. the girl's fault. if she had not run so far, his horse would not have lamed, and we might have been able to flee. i gave him mine when i saw the riders from the ridge. i was done with her by then, and he liked to take his turn while they were still warm. i had to pull him off her and shove my clothes into his hands-calfskin boots and velvet doublet, silver-chased swordbelt, even my sable cloak. ride for the dreadfort, i told him, bring all the help you can. take my horse, he's swifter, and here, wear the ring my father gave me, so they'll know you came from me. he'd learned better than to question me. by the time they put that arrow through his back, i'd smeared myself with the girl's filth and dressed in his rags. they might have hanged me anyway, but it was the only chance i saw. he rubbed the back of his hand across his mouth. and now, my sweet prince, there was a woman promised me, if i brought two hundred men. well, i brought three times as many, and no green boys nor fieldhands neither, but my father's own garrison. theon had given his word. this was not the time to flinch. pay him his pound of flesh and deal with him later. harrag, he said, go to the kennels and bring palla out for... ? ramsay. there was a smile on his plump lips, but none in those pale pale eyes. snow, my wife called me before she ate her fingers, but i say bolton. his smile curdled. so you'd offer me a kennel girl for my good service, is that the way of it? there was a tone in his voice theon did not like, no more than he liked the insolent way the dreadfort men were looking at him. she was what was promised. she smells of dogshit. i've had enough of bad smells, as it happens. i think i'll have your bedwarmer instead. what do you call her? kyra? are you mad? theon said angrily. i'll have you- the bastard's backhand caught him square, and his cheekbone shattered with a sickening crunch beneath the lobstered steel. the world vanished in a red roar of pain. sometime later, theon found himself on the ground. he rolled onto his stomach and swallowed a mouthful of blood. close the gates! he tried to shout, but it was too late. the dreadfort men had cut down red rolfe and kenned, and more were pouring through, a river of mail and sharp swords. there was a ringing in his ears, and horror all around him. black lorren had his sword out, but there were already four of them pressing in on him. he saw ulf go down with a crossbow bolt through the belly as he ran for the great hall. maester luwin was trying to reach him when a knight on a warhorse planted a spear between his shoulders, then swung back to ride over him. another man whipped a torch round and round his head and then lofted it toward the thatched roof of the stables. save me the freys, the bastard was shouting as the flames roared upward, and burn the rest. burn it, burn it all. the last thing theon greyjoy saw was smiler, kicking free of the burning stables with his mane ablaze, screaming, rearing... 