in the chilly white raiment of the kingsguard, ser mandon moore looked like a corpse in a shroud. her grace left orders, the council in session is not to be disturbed. i would be only a small disturbance, ser. tyrion slid the parchment from his sleeve. i bear a letter from my father, lord tywin lannister, the hand of the king. there is his seal. her grace does not wish to be disturbed, ser mandon repeated slowly, as if tyrion were a dullard who had not heard him the first time. jaime had once told him that moore was the most dangerous of the kingsguard-excepting himself, always-because his face gave no hint as what he might do next. tyrion would have welcomed a hint. bronn and timett could likely kill the knight if it came to swords, but it would scarcely bode well if he began by slaying one of joffrey's protectors. yet if he let the man turn him away, where was his authority? he made himself smile. ser mandon, you have not met my companions. this is timett son of timett, a red hand of the burned men. and this is bronn. perchance you recall ser vardis egen, who was captain of lord arryn's household guard? i know the man. ser mandon's eyes were pale grey, oddly flat and lifeless. knew, bronn corrected with a thin smile. ser mandon did not deign to show that he had heard that. be that as it may, tyrion said lightly, i truly must see my sister and present my letter, ser. if you would be so kind as to open the door for us? the white knight did not respond. tyrion was almost at the point of trying to force his way past when ser mandon abruptly stood aside. you may enter. they may not. a small victory, he thought, but sweet. he had passed his first test. tyrion lannister shouldered through the door, feeling almost tall. five members of the king's small council broke off their discussion suddenly. you, his sister cersei said in a tone that was equal parts disbelief and distaste. i can see where joffrey learned his courtesies. tyrion paused to admire the pair of valyrian sphinxes that guarded the door, affecting an air of casual confidence. cersei could smell weakness the way a dog smells fear. what are you doing here? his sister's lovely green eyes studied him without the least hint of affection. delivering a letter from our lord father. he sauntered to the table and placed the tightly rolled parchment between them. the eunuch varys took the letter and turned it in his delicate powdered hands. how kind of lord tywin. and his scaling wax is such a lovely shade of gold. varys gave the seal a close inspection. it gives every appearance of being genuine. of course it's genuine. cersei snatched it out of his hands. she broke the wax and unrolled the parchment. tyrion watched her read. his sister had taken the king's seat for herself- he gathered joffrey did not often trouble to attend council meetings, no more than robert had- so tyrion climbed up into the hand's chair, it seemed only appropriate. this is absurd, the queen said at last. my lord father has sent my brother to sit in his place in this council. he bids us accept tyrion as the hand of the king, until such time as he himself can join us. grand maester pycelle stroked his flowing white beard and nodded ponderously. it would seem that a welcome is in order. indeed. jowly, balding janos slynt looked rather like a frog, a smug frog who had gotten rather above himself. we have sore need of you, my lord. rebellion everywhere, this grim omen in the sky, rioting in the city streets... and whose fault is that, lord janos? cersei lashed out. your gold cloaks are charged with keeping order. as to you, tyrion, you could better serve us on the field of battle. he laughed. no, i'm done with fields of battle, thank you. i sit a chair better than a horse, and i'd sooner hold a wine goblet than a battle-axe. all that about the thunder of the drums, sunlight flashing on armor, magnificent destriers snorting and prancing? well, the drums gave me headaches, the sunlight flashing on my armor cooked me up like a harvest day goose, and those magnificent destriers shit everywhere. not that i am complaining. compared to the hospitality i enjoyed in the vale of arryn, drums, horseshit, and fly bites are my favorite things. littlefinger laughed. well said, lannister. a man after my own heart.  tyrion smiled at him, remembering a certain dagger with a dragonbone hilt and a valyrian steel blade. we must have a talk about that, and soon. he wondered if lord petyr would find that subject amusing as well. please, he told them, do let me be of service, in whatever small way i can. cersei read the letter again. how many men have you brought with you?  a few hundred. my own men, chiefly. father was loath to part with any of his. he is fighting a war, after all. what use will your few hundred men be if renly marches on the city, or stannis sails from dragonstone? i ask for an army and my father sends me a dwarf. the king names the hand, with the consent of council. joffrey named our lord father. and our lord father named me. he cannot do that. not without joff s consent. lord tywin is at harrenhal with his host, if you'd care to take it up with him, tyrion said politely. my lords, perchance you would permit me a private word with my sister? varys slithered to his feet, smiling in that unctuous way he had. how you must have yearned for the sound of your sweet sister's voice. my lords, please, let us give them a few moments together. the woes of our troubled realm shall keep. janos slynt rose hesitantly and grand maester pycelle ponderously, yet they rose. littlefinger was the last. shall i tell the steward to prepare chambers in maegor's holdfast? my thanks, lord petyr, but i will be taking lord stark's former quarters in the tower of the hand. little finger laughed. you're a braver man than me, lannister. you do know the fate of our last two hands? two? if you mean to frighten me, why not say four? four? littlefinger raised an eyebrow. did the hands before lord arryn meet some dire end in the tower? i'm afraid i was too young to pay them much mind. aerys targaryen's last hand was killed during the sack of king's landing, though i doubt he'd had time to settle into the tower. he was only hand for a fortnight. the one before him was burned to death. and before them came two others who died landless and penniless in exile, and counted themselves lucky. i believe my lord father was the last hand to depart king's landing with his name, properties, and parts all intact. fascinating, said littlefinger. and all the more reason i'd sooner bed down in the dungeon. perhaps you'll get that wish, tyrion thought, but he said, courage and folly are cousins, or so i've heard. whatever curse may linger over the tower of the hand, i pray i'm small enough to escape its notice. janos slynt laughed, littlefinger smiled, and grand maester pycelle followed them both out, bowing gravely. i hope father did not send you all this way to plague us with history lessons, his sister said when they were alone. how i have yearned for the sound of your sweet voice, tyrion sighed to her. how i have yearned to have that eunuch's tongue pulled out with hot pincers, cersei replied. has father lost his senses? or did you forge this letter? she read it once more, with mounting annoyance. why would he inflict you on me? i wanted him to come himself. she crushed lord tywin's letter in her fingers. i am joffrey's regent, and i sent him a royal command! and he ignored you, tyrion pointed out. he has quite a large army, he can do that. nor is he the first. is he? cersei's mouth tightened. he could see her color rising. if i name this letter a forgery and tell them to throw you in a dungeon, no one will ignore that, i promise you. he was walking on rotten ice now, tyrion knew. one false step and he would plunge through. no one, he agreed amiably, least of all our father. the one with the army. but why should you want to throw me into a dungeon, sweet sister, when i've come all this long way to help you? i do not require your help. it was our father's presence that i commanded. yes, he said quietly, but it's jaime you want. his sister fancied herself subtle, but he had grown up with her. he could read her face like one of his favorite books, and what he read now was rage, and fear, and despair. jaime- -is my brother no less than yours, tyrion interrupted. give me your support and i promise you, we will have jaime freed and returned to us unharmed. how? cersei demanded. the stark boy and his mother are not like to forget that we beheaded lord eddard. true, tyrion agreed, yet you still hold his daughters, don't you? i saw the older girl out in the yard with joffrey. sansa, the queen said. i've given it out that i have the younger brat as well, but it's a lie. i sent meryn trant to take her in hand when robert died, but her wretched dancing master interfered and the girl fled. no one has seen her since. likely she's dead. a great many people died that day. tyrion had hoped for both stark girls, but he supposed one would have to do. tell me about our friends on the council. his sister glanced at the door. what of them? father seems to have taken a dislike to them. when i left him, he was wondering how their heads might look on the wall beside lord stark's. he leaned forward across the table. are you certain of their loyalty? do you trust them? i trust no one, cersei snapped. i need them. does father believe they are playing us false? suspects, rather. why? what does he know? tyrion shrugged. he knows that your son's short reign has been a long parade of follies and disasters. that suggests that someone is giving joffrey some very bad counsel. cersei gave him a searching look. joff has had no lack of good counsel. he's always been strong-willed. now that he's king, he believes he should do as he pleases, not as he's bid. crowns do queer things to the heads beneath them, tyrion agreed. this business with eddard stark... joffrey' s work?  the queen grimaced. he was instructed to pardon stark, to allow him to take the black. the man would have been out of our way forever, and we might have made peace with that son of his, but joff took it upon himself to give the mob a better show. what was i to do? he called for lord eddard's head in front of half the city. and janos slynt and ser ilyn went ahead blithely and shortened the man without a word from me! her hand tightened into a fist. the high septon claims we profaned baelor's sept with blood, after lying to him about our intent. it would seem he has a point, said tyrion. so this lord slynt, he was part of it, was he? tell me, whose fine notion was it to grant him harrenhal and name him to the council? littlefinger made the arrangements. we needed slynt's gold cloaks. eddard stark was plotting with renly and he'd written to lord stannis, offering him the throne. we might have lost all. even so, it was a close thing. if sansa hadn't come to me and told me all her father's plans... tyrion was surprised. truly? his own daughter? sansa had always seemed such a sweet child, tender and courteous. the girl was wet with love. she would have done anything for joffrey, until he cut off her father's head and called it mercy. that put an end to that. his grace has a unique way of winning the hearts of his subjects, tyrion said with a crooked smile. was it joffrey' s wish to dismiss ser barristan selmy from his kingsguard too? cersei sighed. joff wanted someone to blame for robert's death. varys suggested ser barristan. why not? it gave jaime command of the kingsguard and a seat on the small council, and allowed joff to throw a bone to his dog. he is very fond of sandor clegane. we were prepared to offer selmy some land and a towerhouse, more than the useless old fool deserved. i hear that useless old fool slew two of slynt's gold cloaks when they tried to seize him at the mud gate. his sister looked very unhappy. janos should have sent more men. he is not as competent as might be wished. ser barristan was the lord commander of robert baratheon's kingsguard, tyrion reminded her pointedly. he and jaime are the only survivors of aerys targaryen's seven. the smallfolk talk of him in the same way they talk of serwyn of the mirror shield and prince aemon the dragonknight. what do you imagine they'll think when they see barristan the bold riding beside robb stark or stannis baratheon? cersei glanced away. i had not considered that. father did, said tyrion. that is why he sent me. to put an end to these follies and bring your son to heel. joff will be no more tractable for you than for me. he might. why should he? he knows you would never hurt him. cersei's eyes narrowed. if you believe i'd ever allow you to harm my son, you're sick with fever. tyrion sighed. she'd missed the point, as she did so often. joffrey is as safe with me as he is with you, he assured her, but so long as the boy feels threatened, he'll be more inclined to listen. he took her hand. i am your brother, you know. you need me, whether you care to admit it or no. your son needs me, if he's to have a hope of retaining that ugly iron chair. his sister seemed shocked that he would touch her. you have always been cunning. in my own small way. he grinned. it may be worth the trying... but make no mistake, tyrion. if i accept you, you shall be the king's hand in name, but my hand in truth. you will share all your plans and intentions with me before you act, and you will do nothing without my consent. do you understand? oh, yes. do you agree? certainly, he lied. i am yours, sister. for as long as i need to be. so, now that we are of one purpose, we ought have no more secrets between us. you say joffrey had lord eddard killed, varys dismissed ser barristan, and littlefinger gifted us with lord slynt. who murdered jon arryn?  cersei yanked her hand back. how should i know? the grieving widow in the eyrie seems to think it was me. where did she come by that notion, i wonder? i'm sure i don't know. that fool eddard stark accused me of the same thing. he hinted that lord arryn suspected or... well, believed. that you were fucking our sweet jaime? she slapped him. did you think i was as blind as father? tyrion rubbed his cheek. who you lie with is no matter to me... although it doesn't seem quite just that you should open your legs for one brother and not the other. she slapped him. be gentle, cersei, i'm only jesting with you. if truth be told, i'd sooner have a nice whore. i never understood what jaime saw in you, apart from his own reflection. she slapped him. his cheeks were red and burning, yet he smiled. if you keep doing that, i may get angry. that stayed her hand. why should i care if you do? i have some new friends, tyrion confessed. you won't like them at all. how did you kill robert? he did that himself. all we did was help. when lancel saw that robert was going after boar, he gave him strong wine. his favorite sour red, but fortified, three times as potent as he was used to. the great stinking fool loved it. he could have stopped swilling it down anytime he cared to, but no, he drained one skin and told lancel to fetch another. the boar did the rest. you should have been at the feast, tyrion. there has never been a boar so delicious. they cooked it with mushrooms and apples, and it tasted like triumph. truly, sister, you were born to be a widow. tyrion had rather liked robert baratheon, great blustering oaf that he was... doubtless in part because his sister loathed him so. now, if you are done slapping me, i will be off. he twisted his legs around and clambered down awkwardly from the chair. cersei frowned. i haven't given you leave to depart. i want to know how you intend to free jaime. i'll tell you when i know. schemes are like fruit, they require a certain ripening. right now, i have a mind to ride through the streets and take the measure of this city. tyrion rested his hand on the head of the sphinx beside the door. one parting request. kindly make certain no harm comes to sansa stark, it would not do to lose both the daughters. outside the council chamber, tyrion nodded to ser mandon and made his way down the long vaulted hall. bronn fell in beside him. of timett son of timett there was no sign. where's our red hand? tyrion asked. he felt an urge to explore. his kind was not made for waiting about in halls. i hope he doesn't kill anyone important. the clansmen tyrion had brought down from their fastnesses in the mountains of the moon were loyal in their own fierce way, but they were proud and quarrelsome as well, prone to answer insults real or imagined with steel. try to find him. and while you are at it, see that the rest have been quartered and fed. i want them in the barracks beneath the tower of the hand, but don't let the steward put the stone crows near the moon brothers, and tell him the burned men must have a hall all to themselves. where will you be? i'm riding back to the broken anvil. bronn grinned insolently. need an escort? the talk is, the streets are dangerous. i'll call upon the captain of my sister's household guard, and remind him that i am no less a lannister than she is. he needs to recall that his oath is to casterly rock, not to cersei or joffrey. an hour later, tyrion rode from the red keep accompanied by a dozen lannister guardsmen in crimson cloaks and lion-crested halfhelms. as they passed beneath the portcullis, he noted the heads mounted atop the walls. black with rot and old tar, they had long since become unrecognizable. captain vylarr, he called, i want those taken down on the morrow. give them to the silent sisters for cleaning. it would be hell to match them with the bodies, he supposed, yet it must be done. even in the midst of war certain decencies needed to be observed. vylarr grew hesitant. his grace has told us he wishes the traitors' heads to remain on the walls until he fills those last three empty spikes there on the end. let me hazard a wild stab. one is for robb stark, the others for lords stannis and renly. would that be right? yes, my lord. my nephew is thirteen years old today, vylarr. try and recall that. i'll have the heads down on the morrow, or one of those empty spikes may have a different lodger. do you take my meaning, captain? i'll see that they're taken down myself, my lord. good. tyrion put his heels into his horse and trotted away, leaving the red cloaks to follow as best they could. he had told cersei he intended to take the measure of the city. that was not entirely a lie. tyrion lannister was not pleased by much of what he saw. the streets of king's landing had always been teeming and raucous and noisy, but now they reeked of danger in a way that he did not recall from past visits. a naked corpse sprawled in the gutter near the street of looms, being torn at by a pack of feral dogs, yet no one seemed to care. watchmen were much in evidence, moving in pairs through the alleys in their gold cloaks and shirts of black ringmail, iron cudgels never far from their hands. the markets were crowded with ragged men selling their household goods for any price they could get... and conspicuously empty of farmers selling food. what little produce he did see was three times as costly as it had been a year ago. one peddler was hawking rats roasted on a skewer. fresh rats, he cried loudly, fresh rats. doubtless fresh rats were to be preferred to old stale rotten rats. the frightening thing was, the rats looked more appetizing than most of what the butchers were selling, on the street of flour, tyrion saw guards at every other shop door. when times grew lean, even bakers found sellswords cheaper than bread, he reflected. there is no food coming in, is there? he said to vylarr. little enough, the captain admitted. with the war in the riverlands and lord renly raising rebels in highgarden, the roads are closed to south and west. and what has my good sister done about this? she is taking steps to restore the king's peace, vylarr assured him. lord slynt has tripled the size of the city watch, and the queen has put a thousand craftsmen to work on our defenses. the stonemasons are strengthening the walls, carpenters are building scorpions and catapults by the hundred, fletchers are making arrows, the smiths are forging blades, and the alchemists' guild has pledged ten thousand jars of wildfire. tyrion shifted uncomfortably in his saddle. he was pleased that cersei had not been idle, but wildfire was treacherous stuff, and ten thousand jars were enough to turn all of king's landing into cinders. where has my sister found the coin to pay for all of this? it was no secret that king robert had left the crown vastly in debt, and alchemists were seldom mistaken for altruists. lord littlefinger always finds a way, my lord. he has imposed a tax on those wishing to enter the city. yes, that would work, tyrion said, thinking, clever. clever and cruel. tens of thousands had fled the fighting for the supposed safety of king's landing. he had seen them on the kingsroad, troupes of mothers and children and anxious fathers who had gazed on his horses and wagons with covetous eyes. once they reached the city they would doubtless pay over all they had to put those high comforting walls between them and the war... though they might think twice if they knew about the wildfire. the inn beneath the sign of the broken anvil stood within sight of those walls, near the gate of the gods where they had entered that morning. as they rode into its courtyard, a boy ran out to help tyrion down from his horse. take your men back to the castle, he told vylarr. i'll be spending the night here. the captain looked dubious. will you be safe, my lord? well, as to that, captain, when i left the inn this morning it was full of black ears. one is never quite safe when chella daughter of cheyk is about. tyrion waddled toward the door, leaving vylarr to puzzle at his meaning. a gust of merriment greeted him as he shoved into the inn's common room. he recognized chella's throaty chuckle and the lighter music of shae's laughter. the girl was seated by the hearth, sipping wine at a round wooden table with three of the black ears he'd left to guard her and a plump man whose back was to him. the innkeeper, he assumed... until shae called tyrion by name and the intruder rose. my good lord, i am so pleased to see you, he gushed, a soft eunuch's smile on his powdered face. tyrion stumbled. lord varys. i had not thought to see you here. the others take him, how did he find them so quickly? forgive me if i intrude, varys said. i was taken by a sudden urge to meet your young lady. young lady, shae repeated, savoring the words. you're half right, m'lord. i'm young. eighteen, tyrion thought. eighteen, and a whore, but quick of wit, nimble as a cat between the sheets, with large dark eyes and fine black hair and a sweet, soft, hungry little mouth... and mine! damn you, eunuch. i fear i'm the intruder, lord varys, he said with forced courtesy. when i came in, you were in the midst of some merriment. m'lord varys complimented chella on her ears and said she must have killed many men to have such a fine necklace, shae explained. it grated on him to hear her call varys m'lord in that tone; that was what she called him in their pillow play. and chella told him only cowards kill the vanquished. braver to leave the man alive, with a chance to cleanse his shame by winning back his ear, explained chella, a small dark woman whose grisly neckware was hung with no less than forty- six dried, wrinkled ears. tyrion had counted them once. only so can you prove you do not fear your enemies. shae hooted. and then m'lord says if he was a black ear he'd never sleep, for dreams of one- eared men. a problem i will never need face, tyrion said. i'm terrified of my enemies, so i kill them all. varys giggled. will you take some wine with us, my lord? i'll take some wine. tyrion seated himself beside shae. he understood what was happening here, if chella and the girl did not. varys was delivering a message. when he said, i was taken by a sudden urge to meet your young lady, what he meant was, you tried to hide her, but i knew where she was, and who she was, and here i am. he wondered who had betrayed him. the innkeeper, that boy in the stable, a guard on the gate... or one of his own? i always like to return to the city through the gate of the gods, varys told shae as he filled the wine cups. the carvings on the gatehouse are exquisite, they make me weep each time i see them. the eyes... so expressive, don't you think? they almost seem to follow you as you ride beneath the portcullis. i never noticed, m'lord, shae replied. i'll look again on the morrow, if it please you. don't bother, sweetling, tyrion thought, swirling the wine in the cup. he cares not a whit about carvings. the eyes he boasts of are his own. what he means is that he was watching, that he knew we were here the moment we passed through the gates. do be careful, child, varys urged. king's landing is not wholly safe these days. i know these streets well, and yet i almost feared to come today, alone and unarmed as i was. lawless men are everywhere in this dark time, oh, yes. men with cold steel and colder hearts. where i can come alone and unarmed, others can come with swords in their fists, he was saying. shae only laughed. if they try and bother me, they'll be one ear short when chella runs them off. varys hooted as if that was the funniest thing he had ever heard, but there was no laughter in his eyes when he turned them on tyrion. your young lady has an amiable way to her. i should take very good care of her if i were you. i intend to. any man who tries to harm her- well, i'm too small to be a black ear, and i make no claims to courage. see? i speak the same tongue you do, eunuch. hurt her, and i'll have your head. i will leave you. varys rose. i know how weary you must be. i only wished to welcome you, my lord, and tell you how very pleased i am by your arrival. we have dire need of you on the council. have you seen the comet?  i'm short, not blind, tyrion said. out on the kingsroad, it had seemed to cover half the sky, outshining the crescent moon. in the streets, they call it the red messenger, varys said. they say it comes as a herald before a king, to warn of fire and blood to follow. the eunuch rubbed his powdered hands together. may i leave you with a bit of a riddle, lord tyrion? he did not wait for an answer. in a room sit three great men, a king, a priest, and a rich man with his gold. between them stands a sellsword, a little man of common birth and no great mind. each of the great ones bids him slay the other two.'do it' says the king,'for i am your lawful ruler.''do it' says the priest, 'for i command you in the names of the gods.''do it' says the rich man,'and all this gold shall be yours.' so tell me- who lives and who dies? bowing deeply, the eunuch hurried from the common room on soft slippered feet. when he was gone, chella gave a snort and shae wrinkled up her pretty face. the rich man lives. doesn't he? tyrion sipped at his wine, thoughtful. perhaps. or not. that would depend on the sellsword, it seems. he set down his cup. come, let's go upstairs. she had to wait for him at the top of the steps, for her legs were slim and supple while his were short and stunted and full of aches. but she was smiling when he reached her. did you miss me? she teased as she took his hand. desperately, tyrion admitted. shae only stood a shade over five feet, yet still he must look up to her... but in her case he found he did not mind. she was sweet to look up at. you'll miss me all the time in your red keep, she said as she led him to her room. all alone in your cold bed in your tower of the hand. too true. tyrion would gladly have kept her with him, but his lord father had forbidden it. you will not take the whore to court, lord tywin had commanded. bringing her to the city was as much defiance as he dared. all his authority derived from his father, the girl had to understand that. you won't be far, he promised. you'll have a house, with guards and servants, and i'll visit as often as i'm able. shae kicked shut the door. through the cloudy panes of the narrow window, he could make out the great sept of baelor crowning visenya's hill but tyrion was distracted by a different sight. bending, shae took her gown by the hem, drew it over her head, and tossed it aside. she did not believe in smallclothes. you'll never be able to rest, she said as she stood before him, pink and nude and lovely, one hand braced on her hip. you'll think of me every time you go to bed. then you'll get hard and you'll have no one to help you and you'll never be able to sleep unless you- she grinned that wicked grin tyrion liked so well-is that why they call it the tower of the hand, m'lord? be quiet and kiss me, he commanded. he could taste the wine on her lips, and feel her small firm breasts pressed against him as her fingers moved to the lacings of his breeches. my lion, she whispered when he broke off the kiss to undress. my sweet lord, my giant of lannister. tyrion pushed her toward the bed. when he entered her, she screamed loud enough to wake baelor the blessed in his tomb, and her nails left gouges in his back. he'd never had a pain he liked half so well. fool, he thought to himself afterward, as they lay in the center of the sagging mattress amidst the rumpled sheets. will you never learn, dwarf? she's a whore, damn you, it's your coin she loves, not your cock. remember tysha? yet when his fingers trailed lightly over one nipple, it stiffened at the touch, and he could see the mark on her breast where he'd bitten her in his passion. so what will you do, m'lord, now that you're the hand of the king? shae asked him as he cupped that warm sweet flesh. something cersei will never expect, tyrion murmured softly against her slender neck. i'll do... justice. janos slynt was a butcher's son, and he laughed like a man chopping meat. more wine? tyrion asked him. i should not object, lord janos said, holding out his cup. he was built like a keg, and had a similar capacity. i should not object at all. that's a fine red. from the arbor? dornish. tyrion gestured, and his serving man poured. but for the servants, he and lord janos were alone in the small hall, at a small candlelit table surrounded by darkness. quite the find. dornish wines are not often so rich. rich, said the big frog-faced man, taking a healthy gulp. he was not a man for sipping, janos slynt. tyrion had made note of that at once. yes, rich, that's the very word i was searching for, the very word. you have a gift for words, lord tyrion, if i might say so. and you tell a droll tale. droll, yes. i'm pleased you think so... but i'm not a lord, as you are. a simple tyrion will suffice for me, lord janos. as you wish. he took another swallow, dribbling wine on the front of his black satin doublet. he was wearing a cloth-of-gold half cape fastened with a miniature spear, its point enameled in dark red. and he was well and truly drunk. tyrion covered his mouth and belched politely. unlike lord janos he had gone easy on the wine, but he was very full. the first thing he had done after taking up residence in the tower of the hand was inquire after the finest cook in the city and take her into his service. this evening they had supped on oxtail soup, summer greens tossed with pecans, grapes, red fennel, and crumbled cheese, hot crab pie, spiced squash, and quails drowned in butter. each dish had come with its own wine. lord janos allowed that he had never eaten half so well. no doubt that will change when you take your seat in harrenhal, tyrion said. for a certainty. perhaps i should ask this cook of yours to enter my service, what do you say? wars have been fought over less, he said, and they both had a good long laugh. you're a bold man to take harrenhal for your seat. such a grim place, and huge... costly to maintain. and some say cursed as well. should i fear a pile of stone? he hooted at the notion. a bold man, you said. you must be bold, to rise. as i have. to harrenhal, yes! and why not? you know. you are a bold man too, i sense. small, mayhap, but bold.  you are too kind. more wine? no. no, truly, i... oh, gods be damned, yes. why not? a bold man drinks his fill! truly. tyrion filled lord slynt's cup to the brim. i have been glancing over the names you put forward to take your place as commander of the city watch. good men. fine men. any of the six will do, but i'd choose allar deem. my right arm. good good man. loyal. pick him and you won't be sorry. if he pleases the king. to be sure. tyrion took a small sip of his own wine. i had been considering ser jacelyn bywater. he's been captain on the mud gate for three years, and he served with valor during balon greyjoy's rebellion. king robert knighted him at pyke. and yet his name does not appear on your list. lord janos slynt took a gulp of wine and sloshed it around in his mouth for a moment before swallowing. bywater. well. brave man, to be sure, yet... he's rigid, that one. a queer dog. the men don't like him. a cripple too, lost his hand at pyke, that's what got him knighted. a poor trade, if you ask me, a hand for a ser. he laughed. ser jacelyn thinks overmuch of himself and his honor, as i see it. you'll do better leaving that one where he is, my lor-tyrion. allar deem's the man for you. deem is little loved in the streets, i am told. he's feared. that's better. what was it i heard of him? some trouble in a brothel? that. not his fault, my lor-tyrion. no. he never meant to kill the woman, that was her own doing. he warned her to stand aside and let him do his duty. still... mothers and children, he might have expected she'd try to save the babe. tyrion smiled. have some of this cheese, it goes splendidly with the wine. tell me, why did you choose deem for that unhappy task? a good commander knows his men, tyrion. some are good for one job, some for another. doing for a babe, and her still on the tit, that takes a certain sort. not every man'd do it. even if it was only some whore and her whelp. i suppose that's so, said tyrion, hearing only some whore and thinking of shae, and tysha long ago, and all the other women who had taken his coin and his seed over the years. slynt went on, oblivious. a hard man for a hard job, is deem. does as he's told, and never a word afterward. he cut a slice off the cheese. this is fine. sharp. give me a good sharp knife and a good sharp cheese and i'm a happy man. tyrion shrugged. enjoy it while you can. with the riverlands in flame and renly king in highgarden, good cheese will soon be hard to come by. so who sent you after the whore's bastard? lord janos gave tyrion a wary look, then laughed and wagged a wedge of cheese at him. you're a sly one, tyrion. thought you could trick me, did you? it takes more than wine and cheese to make janos slynt tell more than he should. i pride myself. never a question, and never a word afterward, not with me. as with deem. just the same. you make him your commander when i'm off to harrenhal, and you won't regret it. tyrion broke off a nibble of the cheese. it was sharp indeed, and veined with wine; very choice. whoever the king names will not have an easy time stepping into your armor, i can tell. lord mormont faces the same problem. lord janos looked puzzled. i thought she was a lady. mormont. beds down with bears, that's the one? it was her brother i was speaking of. jeor mormont, the lord commander of the night's watch. when i was visiting with him on the wall, he mentioned how concerned he was about finding a good man to take his place. the watch gets so few good men these days. tyrion grinned. he'd sleep easier if he had a man like you, i imagine. or the valiant allar deem. lord janos roared. small chance of that! one would think, tyrion said, but life does take queer turns. consider eddard stark, my lord. i don't suppose he ever imagined his life would end on the steps of baelor's sept. there were damn few as did, lord janos allowed, chuckling. tyrion chuckled too. a pity i wasn't here to see it. they say even varys was surprised. lord janos laughed so hard his gut shook. the spider, he said. knows everything, they say. well, he didn't know that. how could he? tyrion put the first hint of a chill in his tone. he had helped persuade my sister that stark should be pardoned, on the condition that he take the black. eh? janos slynt blinked vaguely at tyrion. my sister cersei, tyrion repeated, a shade more strongly, in case the fool had some doubt who he meant. the queen regent. yes. slynt took a swallow. as to that, well... the king commanded it, m'lord. the king himself. the king is thirteen, tyrion reminded him. still. he is the king. slynt's jowls quivered when he frowned. the lord of the seven kingdoms. well, one or two of them, at least, tyrion said with a sour smile. might i have a look at your spear? my spear? lord janos blinked in confusion. tyrion pointed. the clasp that fastens your cape. hesitantly, lord janos drew out the ornament and handed it to tyrion. we have goldsmiths in lannisport who do better work, he opined. the red enamel blood is a shade much, if you don't mind my saying. tell me, my lord, did you drive the spear into the man's back yourself, or did you only give the command? i gave the command, and i'd give it again. lord stark was a traitor. the bald spot in the middle of slynt's head was beet-red, and his clothof-gold cape had slithered off his shoulders onto the floor. the man tried to buy me. little dreaming that you had already been sold. slynt slammed down his wine cup. are you drunk? if you think i will sit here and have my honor questioned... what honor is that? i do admit, you made a better bargain than ser jacelyn. a lordship and a castle for a spear thrust in the back, and you didn't even need to thrust the spear. he tossed the golden ornament back to janos slynt. it bounced off his chest and clattered to the floor as the man rose. i mislike the tone of your voice, my lo-imp. i am the lord of harrenhal and a member of the king's council, who are you to chastise me like this? tyrion cocked his head sideways. i think you know quite well who i am. how many sons do you have? what are my sons to you, dwarf? dwarf? his anger flashed. you should have stopped at imp. i am tyrion of house lannister, and someday, if you have the sense the gods gave a sea slug, you will drop to your knees in thanks that it was me you had to deal with, and not my lord father. now, how many sons do you have? tyrion could see the sudden fear in janos slynt's eyes. th-three, m'lord. and a daughter. please, m'lord- you need not beg. he slid off his chair. you have my word, no harm will come to them. the younger boys will be fostered out as squires. if they serve well and loyally, they may be knights in time. let it never be said that house lannister does not reward those who serve it. your eldest son will inherit the title lord slynt, and this appalling sigil of yours. he kicked at the little golden spear and sent it skittering across the floor. lands will be found for him, and he can build a seat for himself. it will not be harrenhal, but it will be sufficient, it will be up to him to make a marriage for the girl. janos slynt's face had gone from red to white. wh-what... what do you... ? his jowls were quivering like mounds of suet. what do i mean to do with you? tyrion let the oaf tremble for a moment before he answered. the carrack summer's dream sails on the morning tide. her master tells me she will call at gulltown, the three sisters, the isle of skagos, and eastwatch-by-the-sea. when you see lord commander mormont, give him my fond regards, and tell him that i have not forgotten the needs of the night's watch. i wish you long life and good service, my lord. once janos slynt realized he was not to be summarily executed, color returned to his face. he thrust his jaw out. we will see about this, imp. dwarf. perhaps it will be you on that ship, what do you think of that? perhaps it will be you on the wall. he gave a bark of anxious laughter. you and your threats, well, we will see. i am the king's friend, you know. we shall hear what joffrey has to say about this. and littlefinger and the queen, oh, yes. janos slynt has a good many friends. we will see who goes sailing, i promise you. indeed we will. slynt spun on his heel like the watchman he'd once been, and strode the length of the small hall, boots ringing on the stone. he clattered up the steps, threw open the door... and came face- to-face with a tall, lantern-jawed man in black breastplate and gold cloak. strapped to the stump of his right wrist was an iron hand. janos, he said, deep-set eyes glinting under a prominent brow ridge and a shock of salt-and-pepper hair. six gold cloaks moved quietly into the small hall behind him as janos slynt backed away. lord slynt, tyrion called out, i believe you know ser jacelyn bywater, our new commander of the city watch. we have a litter waiting for you, my lord, ser jacelyn told slynt. the docks are dark and distant, and the streets are not safe by night. men. as the gold cloaks ushered out their onetime commander, tyrion called ser jacelyn to his side and handed him a roll of parchment. it's a long voyage, and lord slynt will want for company. see that these six join him on the summer's dream. bywater glanced over the names and smiled. as you will. there's one, tyrion said quietly. deem. tell the captain it would not be taken amiss if that one should happen to be swept overboard before they reach eastwatch. i'm told those northern waters are very stormy, my lord. ser jacelyn bowed and took his leave, his cloak rippling behind him. he trod on slynt's cloth-of-gold cape on his way. tyrion sat alone, sipping at what remained of the fine sweet dornish wine. servants came and went, clearing the dishes from the table. he told them to leave the wine. when they were done, varys came gliding into the hall, wearing flowing lavender robes that matched his smell. oh sweetly done, my good lord. then why do i have this bitter taste in my mouth? he pressed his fingers into his temples. i told them to throw allar deem into the sea. i am sorely tempted to do the same with you. you might be disappointed by the result, varys replied. the storms come and go, the waves crash overhead, the big fish eat the little fish, and i keep on paddling. might i trouble you for a taste of the wine that lord slynt enjoyed so much? tyrion waved at the flagon, frowning. varys filled a cup. ah. sweet as summer. he took another sip. i hear the grapes singing on my tongue. i wondered what that noise was. tell the grapes to keep still, my head is about to split. it was my sister. that was what the oh-so-loyal lord janos refused to say. cersei sent the gold cloaks to that brothel. varys tittered nervously. so he had known all along. you left that part out, tyrion said accusingly. your own sweet sister, varys said, so grief-stricken he looked close to tears. it is a hard thing to tell a man, my lord. i was fearful how you might take it. can you forgive me? no, tyrion snapped. damn you. damn her. he could not touch cersei, he knew. not yet, not even if he'd wanted to, and he was far from certain that he did. yet it rankled, to sit here and make a mummer's show of justice by punishing the sorry likes of janos slynt and allar deem, while his sister continued on her savage course. in future, you will tell me what you know, lord varys. all of what you know. the eunuch's smile was sly. that might take rather a long time, my good lord. i know quite a lot. not enough to save this child, it would seem. alas, no. there was another bastard, a boy, older. i took steps to see him removed from harm's way... but i confess, i never dreamed the babe would be at risk. a baseborn girl, less than a year old, with a whore for a mother. what threat could she pose? she was robert's, tyrion said bitterly. that was enough for cersei, it would seem. yes. it is grievous sad. i must blame myself for the poor sweet babe and her mother, who was so young and loved the king. did she? tyrion had never seen the dead girl's face, but in his mind she was shae and tysha both. can a whore truly love anyone, i wonder? no, don't answer. some things i would rather not know. he had settled shae in a sprawling stone-and-timber manse, with its own well and stable and garden; he had given her servants to see to her wants, a white bird from the summer isles to keep her company, silks and silver and gemstones to adorn her, guards to protect her. and yet she seemed restive. she wanted to be with him more, she told him; she wanted to serve him and help him. you help me most here, between the sheets, he told her one night after their loving as he lay beside her, his head pillowed against her breast, his groin aching with a sweet soreness. she made no reply, save with her eyes. he could see there that it was not what she'd wanted to hear. sighing, tyrion started to reach for the wine again, then remembered lord janos and pushed the flagon away. it does seem my sister was telling the truth about stark's death. we have my nephew to thank for that madness. king joffrey gave the command. janos slynt and ser ilyn payne carried it out, swiftly, without hesitation... ... almost as if they had expected it. yes, we have been over this ground before, without profit. a folly. with the city watch in hand, my lord, you are well placed to see to it that his grace commits no further... follies? to be sure, there is still the queen's household guard to consider... the red cloaks? tyrion shrugged. vylarr's loyalty is to casterly rock. he knows i am here with my father's authority. cersei would find it hard to use his men against me... besides, they are only a hundred. i have half again as many men of my own. and six thousand gold cloaks, if bywater is the man you claim. you will find ser jacelyn to be courageous, honorable, obedient... and most grateful. to whom, i wonder? tyrion did not trust varys, though there was no denying his value. he knew things, beyond a doubt. why are you so helpful, my lord varys? he asked, studying the man's soft hands, the bald powdered face, the slimy little smile. you are the hand. i serve the realm, the king, and you. as you served jon arryn and eddard stark? i served lord arryn and lord stark as best i could. i was saddened and horrified by their most untimely deaths. think how i feel. i'm like to be next. oh, i think not, varys said, swirling the wine in his cup. power is a curious thing, my lord. perchance you have considered the riddle i posed you that day in the inn? it has crossed my mind a time or two, tyrion admitted. the king, the priest, the rich man- who lives and who dies? who will the swordsman obey? it's a riddle without an answer, or rather, too many answers. all depends on the man with the sword. and yet he is no one, varys said. he has neither crown nor gold nor favor of the gods, only a piece of pointed steel. that piece of steel is the power of life and death. just so... yet if it is the swordsmen who rule us in truth, why do we pretend our kings hold the power? why should a strong man with a sword ever obey a child king like joffrey, or a wine- sodden oaf like his father?  because these child kings and drunken oafs can call other strong men, with other swords. then these other swordsmen have the true power. or do they? whence came their swords? why do they obey? varys smiled. some say knowledge is power. some tell us that all power comes from the gods. others say it derives from law. yet that day on the steps of baelor's sept, our godly high septon and the lawful queen regent and your everso-knowledgeable servant were as powerless as any cobbler or cooper in the crowd. who truly killed eddard stark do you think? joffrey, who gave the command? ser ilyn payne, who swung the sword? or... another? tyrion cocked his head sideways. did you mean to answer your damned riddle, or only to make my head ache worse? varys smiled. here, then. power resides where men believe it resides. no more and no less. so power is a mummer's trick? a shadow on the wall, varys murmured, yet shadows can kill. and ofttimes a very small man can cast a very large shadow. tyrion smiled. lord varys, i am growing strangely fond of you. i may kill you yet, but i think i'd feel sad about it. i will take that as high praise. what are you, varys? tyrion found he truly wanted to know. a spider, they say. spies and informers are seldom loved, my lord. i am but a loyal servant of the realm. and a eunuch. let us not forget that. i seldom do. people have called me a halfman too, yet i think the gods have been kinder to me. i am small, my legs are twisted, and women do not look upon me with any great yearning... yet i'm still a man. shae is not the first to grace my bed, and one day i may take a wife and sire a son. if the gods are good, he'll look like his uncle and think like his father. you have no such hope to sustain you. dwarfs are a jape of the gods... but men make eunuchs. who cut you, varys? when and why? who are you, truly?  the eunuch's smile never flickered, but his eyes glittered with something that was not laughter. you are kind to ask, my lord, but my tale is long and sad, and we have treasons to discuss. he drew a parchment from the sleeve of his robe. the master of the king's galley white hart plots to slip anchor three days hence to offer his sword and ship to lord stannis. tyrion sighed. i suppose we must make some sort of bloody lesson out of the man? ser jacelyn could arrange for him to vanish, but a trial before the king would help assure the continued loyalty of the other captains. and keep my royal nephew occupied as well. as you say. put him down for a dose of joffrey's justice. varys made a mark on the parchment. ser horas and ser hobber redwyne have bribed a guard to let them out a postern gate, the night after next. arrangements have been made for them to sail on the pentoshi galley moonrunner, disguised as oarsmen. can we keep them on those oars for a few years, see how they fancy it? he smiled. no, my sister would be distraught to lose such treasured guests. inform ser jacelyn. seize the man they bribed and explain what an honor it is to serve as a brother of the night's watch. and have men posted around the moonrunner, in case the redwynes find a second guard short of coin. as you will. another mark on the parchment. your man timett slew a wineseller's son this evening, at a gambling den on the street of silver. he accused him of cheating at tiles. was it true? oh, beyond a doubt. then the honest men of the city owe timett a debt of gratitude. i shall see that he has the king's thanks. the eunuch gave a nervous giggle and made another mark. we also have a sudden plague of holy men. the comet has brought forth all manner of queer priests, preachers, and prophets, it would seem. they beg in the winesinks and pot-shops and foretell doom and destruction to anyone who stops to listen. tyrion shrugged. we are close on the three hundredth year since aegon's landing, i suppose it is only to be expected. let them rant. they are spreading fear, my lord. i thought that was your job. varys covered his mouth with his hand. you are very cruel to say so. one last matter. lady tanda gave a small supper last night. i have the menu and the guest list for your inspection. when the wine was poured, lord gyles rose to lift a cup to the king, and ser balon swann was heard to remark,'we'll need three cups for that.' many laughed... tyrion raised a hand. enough. ser balon made a jest. i am not interested in treasonous table talk, lord varys. you are as wise as you are gentle, my lord. the parchment vanished up the eunuch's sleeve. we both have much to do. i shall leave you. when the eunuch had departed, tyrion sat for a long time watching the candle and wondering how his sister would take the news of janos slynt's dismissal. not happily, if he was any judge, but beyond sending an angry protest to lord tywin in harrenhal, he did not see what cersei could hope to do about it. tyrion had the city watch now, plus a hundred-and-a-half fierce clansmen and a growing force of sellswords recruited by bronn. he would seem well protected. doubtless eddard stark thought the same. the red keep was dark and still when tyrion left the small hall. bronn was waiting in his solar. slynt? he asked. lord janos will be sailing for the wall on the morning tide. varys would have me believe that i have replaced one of joffrey's men with one of my own. more likely, i have replaced littlefinger's man with one belonging to varys, but so be it. you'd best know, timett killed a man- varys told me. the sellsword seemed unsurprised. the fool figured a one-eyed man would be easier to cheat. timett pinned his wrist to the table with a dagger and ripped out his throat barehanded. he has this trick where he stiffens his fingers- spare me the grisly details, my supper is sitting badly in my belly, tyrion said. how goes your recruiting? well enough. three new men tonight. how do you know which ones to hire? i look them over. i question them, to learn where they've fought and how well they lie. bronn smiled. and then i give them a chance to kill me, while i do the same for them. have you killed any? no one we could have used. and if one of them kills you? he'll be one you'll want to hire. tyrion was a little drunk, and very tired. tell me, bronn. if i told you to kill a babe... an infant girl, say, still at her mother's breast... would you do it? without question? without question? no. the sellsword rubbed thumb and forefinger together. i'd ask how much. and why would i ever need your allar deem, lord slynt? tyrion thought. i have a hundred of my own. he wanted to laugh; he wanted to weep; most of all, he wanted shae. the queen was not disposed to wait on varys. treason is vile enough, she declared furiously, but this is barefaced naked villainy, and i do not need that mincing eunuch to tell me what must be done with villains. tyrion took the letters from his sister's hand and compared them side by side. there were two copies, the words exactly alike, though they had been written by different hands. maester frenken received the first missive at castle stokeworth, grand maester pycelle explained. the second copy came through lord gyles. littlefinger fingered his beard. if stannis bothered with them, it's past certain every other lord in the seven kingdoms saw a copy as well. i want these letters burned, every one, cersei declared. no hint of this must reach my son's ears, or my father's. i imagine father's heard rather more than a hint by now, tyrion said dryly. doubtless stannis sent a bird to casterly rock, and another to harrenhal. as for burning the letters, to what point? the song is sung, the wine is spilled, the wench is pregnant. and this is not as dire as it seems, in truth. cersei turned on him in green-eyed fury. are you utterly witless? did you read what he says? the boy joffrey, he calls him. and he dares to accuse me of incest, adultery, and treason! only because you're guilty. it was astonishing to see how angry cersei could wax over accusations she knew perfectly well to be true. if we lose the war, she ought to take up mummery, she has a gift for it. tyrion waited until she was done and said, stannis must have some pretext to justify his rebellion. what did you expect him to write? joffrey is my brother's trueborn son and heir, but i mean to take his throne for all that?  i will not suffer to be called a whore! why, sister, he never claims jaime paid you. tyrion made a show of glancing over the writing again. there had been some niggling phrase... done in the light of the lord, he read. a queer choice of words, that. pycelle cleared his throat. these words often appear in letters and documents from the free cities. they mean no more than, let us say, written in the sight of god. the god of the red priests. it is their usage, i do believe. varys told us some years past that lady selyse had taken up with a red priest, littlefinger reminded them. tyrion tapped the paper. and now it would seem her lord husband has done the same. we can use that against him. urge the high septon to reveal how stannis has turned against the gods as well as his rightful king...  yes, yes, the queen said impatiently, but first we must stop this filth from spreading further. the council must issue an edict. any man heard speaking of incest or calling joff a bastard should lose his tongue for it. a prudent measure, said grand maester pycelle, his chain of office clinking as he nodded. a folly, sighed tyrion. when you tear out a man's tongue, you are not proving him a liar, you're only telling the world that you fear what he might say. so what would you have us do? his sister demanded. very little. let them whisper, they'll grow bored with the tale soon enough. any man with a thimble of sense will see it for a clumsy attempt to justify usurping the crown. does stannis offer proof? how could he, when it never happened? tyrion gave his sister his sweetest smile. that's so, she had to say. still. your grace, your brother has the right of this. petyr baelish steepled his fingers. if we attempt to silence this talk, we only lend it credence. better to treat it with contempt, like the pathetic lie it is. and meantime, fight fire with fire. cersei gave him a measuring look. what sort of fire? a tale of somewhat the same nature, perhaps. but more easily believed. lord stannis has spent most of his marriage apart from his wife. not that i fault him, i'd do the same were i married to lady selyse. nonetheless, if we put it about that her daughter is baseborn and stannis a cuckold, well... the smallfolk are always eager to believe the worst of their lords, particularly those as stern, sour, and prickly proud as stannis baratheon. he has never been much loved, that's true. cersei considered a moment. so we pay him back in his own coin. yes, i like this. who can we name as lady selyse's lover? she has two brothers, i believe. and one of her uncles has been with her on dragonstone all this time... ser axell florent is her castellan. loath as tyrion was to admit it, littlefinger's scheme had promise. stannis had never been enamored of his wife, but he was bristly as a hedgehog where his honor was concerned and mistrustful by nature. if they could sow discord between him and his followers, it could only help their cause. the child has the florent ears, i'm told. littlefinger gestured languidly. a trade envoy from lys once observed to me that lord stannis must love his daughter very well, since he'd erected hundreds of statues of her all along the walls of dragonstone.'my lord' i had to tell him,'those are gargoyles.' he chuckled. ser axell might serve for shireen's father, but in my experience, the more bizarre and shocking a tale the more apt it is to be repeated. stannis keeps an especially grotesque fool, a lackwit with a tattooed face. grand maester pycelle gaped at him, aghast. surely you do not mean to suggest that lady selyse would bring a fool into her bed? you'd have to be a fool to want to bed selyse florent, said littlefinger. doubtless patchface reminded her of stannis. and the best lies contain within them nuggets of truth, enough to give a listener pause. as it happens, this fool is utterly devoted to the girl and follows her everywhere. they even look somewhat alike. shireen has a mottled, halffrozen face as well. pycelle was lost. but that is from the greyscale that near killed her as a babe, poor thing. i like my tale better, said littlefinger, and so will the smallfolk. most of them believe that if a woman eats rabbit while pregnant, her child will be born with long floppy ears. cersei smiled the sort of smile she customarily reserved for jaime. lord petyr, you are a wicked creature. thank you, your grace. and a most accomplished liar, tyrion added, less warmly. this one is more dangerous than i knew, he reflected. little finger's grey-green eyes met the dwarfs mismatched stare with no hint of unease. we all have our gifts, my lord. the queen was too caught up in her revenge to take note of the exchange. cuckolded by a halfwit fool! stannis will be laughed at in every winesink this side of the narrow sea. the story should not come from us, tyrion said, or it will be seen for a self-serving lie. which it is, to be sure. once more littlefinger supplied the answer. whores love to gossip, and as it happens i own a brothel or three. and no doubt varys can plant seeds in the alehouses and pot-shops. varys, cersei said, frowning. where is varys? i have been wondering about that myself, your grace. the spider spins his secret webs day and night, grand maester pycelle said ominously. i mistrust that one, my lords. and he speaks so kindly of you. tyrion pushed himself off his chair. as it happened, he knew what the eunuch was about, but it was nothing the other councillors needed to hear. pray excuse me, my lords. other business calls. cersei was instantly suspicious. king's business? nothing you need trouble yourself about. i'll be the judge of that. would you spoil my surprise? tyrion said. i'm having a gift made for joffrey. a little chain. what does he need with another chain? he has gold chains and silver, more than he can wear. if you think for a moment you can buy joff s love with gifts- why, surely i have the king's love, as he has mine. and this chain i believe he may one day treasure above all others. the little man bowed and waddled to the door. bronn was waiting outside the council chambers to escort him back to the tower of the hand. the smiths are in your audience chamber, waiting your pleasure, he said as they crossed the ward. waiting my pleasure. i like the ring of that, bronn. you almost sound a proper courtier. next you'll be kneeling. fuck you, dwarf. that's shae's task. tyrion heard lady tanda calling to him merrily from the top of the serpentine steps. pretending not to notice her, he waddled a bit faster. see that my litter is readied, i'll be leaving the castle as soon as i'm done here. two of the moon brothers had the door guard. tyrion greeted them pleasantly, and grimaced before starting up the stairs. the climb to his bedchamber made his legs ache. within he found a boy of twelve laying out clothing on the bed; his squire, such that he was. podrick payne was so shy he was furtive. tyrion had never quite gotten over the suspicion that his father had inflicted the boy on him as a joke. your garb, my lord, the boy mumbled when tyrion entered, staring down at his boots. even when he worked up the courage to speak, pod could never quite manage to look at you. for the audience. and your chain. the hand's chain. very good. help me dress. the doublet was black velvet covered with golden studs in the shape of lions' heads, the chain a loop of solid gold hands, the fingers of each clasping the wrist of the next. pod brought him a cloak of crimson silk fringed in gold, cut to his height. on a normal man, it would be no more than a half cape. the hand's private audience chamber was not so large as the king's, nor a patch on the vastness of the throne room, but tyrion liked its myrish rugs, wall hangings, and sense of intimacy. as he entered, his steward cried out, tyrion lannister, hand of the king. he liked that too. the gaggle of smiths, armorers, and ironmongers that bronn had collected fell to their knees. he hoisted himself up into the high seat under the round golden window and bid them rise. goodmen, i know you are all busy, so i will be succinct. pod, if you please. the boy handed him a canvas sack. tyrion yanked the drawstring and upended the bag. its contents spilled onto the rug with a muffled thunk of metal on wool. i had these made at the castle forge. i want a thousand more just like them. one of the smiths knelt to inspect the object: three immense steel links, twisted together. a mighty chain. mighty, but short, the dwarf replied. somewhat like me. i fancy one a good deal longer. do you have a name? they call me ironbelly, m'lord. the smith was squat and broad, plainly dressed in wool and leather, but his arms were as thick as a bull's neck. i want every forge in king's landing turned to making these links and joining them. all other work is to be put aside. i want every man who knows the art of working metal set to this task, be he master, journeyman, or apprentice. when i ride up the street of steel, i want to hear hammers ringing, night or day. and i want a man, a strong man, to see that all this is done. are you that man, goodman ironbelly? might be i am, m'lord. but what of the mail and swords the queen was wanting? another smith spoke up. her grace commanded us to make chainmail and armor, swords and daggers and axes, all in great numbers. for arming her new gold cloaks, m'lord. that work can wait, tyrion said. the chain first. m'lord, begging your pardon, her grace said those as didn't meet their numbers would have their hands crushed, the anxious smith persisted. smashed on their own anvils, she said. sweet cersei, always striving to make the smallfolk love us. no one will have their hands smashed. you have my word on it. iron is grown dear, ironbelly declared, and this chain will be needing much of it, and coke beside, for the fires. lord baelish will see that you have coin as you need it, tyrion promised. he could count on littlefinger for that much, he hoped. i will command the city watch to help you find iron. melt down every horseshoe in this city if you must. an older man moved forward, richly dressed in a damask tunic with silver fastenings and a cloak lined with foxfur. he knelt to examine the great steel links tyrion had dumped on the floor. my lord, he announced gravely, this is crude work at best. there is no art to it. suitable labor for common smiths, no doubt, for men who bend horseshoes and hammer out kettles, but i am a master armorer, as it please my lord. this is no work for me, nor my fellow masters. we make swords as sharp as song, armor such as a god might wear. not this. tyrion tilted his head to the side and gave the man a dose of his mismatched eyes. what is your name, master armorer? salloreon, as it please my lord, if the king's hand will permit, i should be most honored to forge him a suit of armor suitable to his house and high office. two of the others sniggered, but salloreon plunged ahead, heedless. plate and scale, i think. the scales gilded bright as the sun, the plate enameled a deep lannister crimson. i would suggest a demon's head for a helm, crowned with tall golden horns. when you ride into battle, men will shrink away in fear. a demon's head, tyrion thought ruefully, now what does that say of me? master salloreon, i plan to fight the rest of my battles from this chair. it's links i need, not demon horns. so let me put it to you this way. you will make chains, or you will wear them. the choice is yours. he rose, and took his leave with nary a backward glance. bronn was waiting by the gate with his litter and an escort of mounted black ears. you know where we're bound, tyrion told him. he accepted a hand up into the litter. he had done all he could to feed the hungry city-he'd set several hundred carpenters to building fishing boats in place of catapults, opened the kingswood to any hunter who dared to cross the river, even sent gold cloaks foraging to the west and south-yet he still saw accusing eyes everywhere he rode. the litter's curtains shielded him from that, and besides gave him leisure to think. as they wound their slow way down twisty shadowblack lane to the foot of aegon's high hill, tyrion reflected on the events of the morning. his sister's ire had led her to overlook the true significance of stannis baratheon's letter. without proof, his accusations were nothing; what mattered was that he had named himself a king. and what will renly make of that? they could not both sit the iron throne. idly, he pushed the curtain back a few inches to peer out at the streets. black ears rode on both sides of him, their grisly necklaces looped about their throats, while bronn went in front to clear the way. he watched the passersby watching him, and played a little game with himself, trying to sort the informers from the rest. the ones who look the most suspicious are likely innocent, he decided. it's the ones who look innocent i need to beware. his destination was behind the hill of rhaenys, and the streets were crowded. almost an hour had passed before the litter swayed to a stop. tyrion was dozing, but he woke abruptly when the motion ceased, rubbed the sand from his eyes, and accepted bronn's hand to climb down. the house was two stories tall, stone below and timber above. a round turret rose from one corner of the structure. many of the windows were leaded. over the door swung an ornate lamp, a globe of gilded metal and scarlet glass. a brothel, bronn said. what do you mean to do here? what does one usually do in a brothel? the sellsword laughed. shae's not enough? she was pretty enough for a camp follower, but i'm no longer in camp. little men have big appetites, and i'm told the girls here are fit for a king. is the boy old enough? not joffrey. robert. this house was a great favorite of his. although joffrey may indeed be old enough. an interesting notion, that. if you and the black ears care to amuse yourselves, feel free, but chataya's girls are costly. you'll find cheaper houses all along the street. leave one man here who'll know where to find the others when i wish to return. bronn nodded. as you say. the black ears were all grins. inside the door, a tall woman in flowing silks was waiting for him. she had ebon skin and sandalwood eyes. i am chataya, she announced, bowing deeply. and you are- let us not get into the habit of names. names are dangerous. the air smelled of some exotic spice, and the floor beneath his feet displayed a mosaic of two women entwined in love. you have a pleasant establishment. i have labored long to make it so. i am glad the hand is pleased. her voice was flowing amber, liquid with the accents of the distant summer isles. titles can be as dangerous as names, tyrion warned. show me a few of your girls. it will be my great delight. you will find that they are all as sweet as they are beautiful, and skilled in every art of love. she swept off gracefully, leaving tyrion to waddle after as best he could on legs half the length of hers. from behind an ornate myrish screen carved with flowers and fancies and dreaming maidens, they peered unseen into a common room where an old man was playing a cheerful air on the pipes. in a cushioned alcove, a drunken tyroshi with a purple beard dandled a buxom young wench on his knee. he'd unlaced her bodice and was tilting his cup to pour a thin trickle of wine over her breasts so he might lap it off. two other girls sat playing at tiles before a leaded glass window. the freckled one wore a chain of blue flowers in her honeyed hair. the other had skin as smooth and black as polished jet, wide dark eyes, small pointed breasts. they dressed in flowing silks cinched at the waist with beaded belts. the sunlight pouring through the colored glass outlined their sweet young bodies through the thin cloth, and tyrion felt a stirring in his groin. i would respectfully suggest the dark-skinned girl, said chataya. she's young. she has sixteen years, my lord. a good age for joffrey, he thought, remembering what bronn had said. his first had been even younger. tyrion remembered how shy she'd seemed as he drew her dress up over her head the first time. long dark hair and blue eyes you could drown in, and he had. so long ago... what a wretched fool you are, dwarf. does she come from your home lands, this girl? her blood is the blood of summer, my lord, but my daughter was born here in king's landing. his surprise must have shown on his face, for chataya continued, my people hold that there is no shame to be found in the pillow house. in the summer isles, those who are skilled at giving pleasure are greatly esteemed. many highborn youths and maidens serve for a few years after their flowerings, to honor the gods. what do the gods have to do with it? the gods made our bodies as well as our souls, is it not so? they give us voices, so we might worship them with song. they give us hands, so we might build them temples. and they give us desire, so we might mate and worship them in that way. remind me to tell the high septon, said tyrion. if i could pray with my cock, i'd be much more religious. he waved a hand. i will gladly accept your suggestion. i shall summon my daughter. come. the girl met him at the foot of the stairs. taller than shae, though not so tall as her mother, she had to kneel before tyrion could kiss her. my name is alayaya, she said, with only the slightest hint of her mother's accent. come, my lord. she took him by the hand and drew him up two flights of stairs, then down a long hall. gasps and shrieks of pleasure were coming from behind one of the closed doors, giggles and whispers from another. tyrion's cock pressed against the lacings of his breeches. this could be humiliating, he thought as he followed alayaya up another stair to the turret room. there was only one door. she led him through and closed it. within the room was a great canopied bed, a tall wardrobe decorated with erotic carvings, and a narrow window of leaded glass in a pattern of red and yellow diamonds. you are very beautiful, alayaya, tyrion told her when they were alone. from head to heels, every part of you is lovely. yet just now the part that interests me most is your tongue. my lord will find my tongue well schooled. when i was a girl i learned when to use it, and when not. that pleases me. tyrion smiled. so what shall we do now? perchance you have some suggestion? yes, she said. if my lord will open the wardrobe, he will find what he seeks. tyrion kissed her hand, and climbed inside the empty wardrobe. alayaya closed it after him. he groped for the back panel, felt it slide under his fingers, and pushed it all the way aside. the hollow space behind the walls was pitch-black, but he fumbled until he felt metal. his hand closed around the rung of a ladder. he found a lower rung with his foot, and started down. well below street level, the shaft opened onto a slanting earthen tunnel, where he found varys waiting with candle in hand. varys did not look at all like himself. a scarred face and a stubble of dark beard showed under his spiked steel cap, and he wore mail over boiled leather, dirk and shortsword at his belt. was chataya' s to your satisfaction, my lord? almost too much so, admitted tyrion. you're certain this woman can be relied on? i am certain of nothing in this fickle and treacherous world, my lord. chataya has no cause to love the queen, though, and she knows that she has you to thank for ridding her of allar deem. shall we go? he started down the tunnel. even his walk is different, tyrion observed. the scent of sour wine and garlic clung to varys instead of lavender. i like this new garb of yours, he offered as they went. the work i do does not permit me to travel the streets amid a column of knights. so when i leave the castle, i adopt more suitable guises, and thus live to serve you longer. leather becomes you. you ought to come like this to our next council session. your sister would not approve, my lord. my sister would soil her smallclothes. he smiled in the dark. i saw no signs of any of her spies skulking after me. i am pleased to hear it, my lord. some of your sister's hirelings are mine as well, unbeknownst to her. i should hate to think they had grown so sloppy as to be seen. -well, i'd hate to think i was climbing through wardrobes and suffering the pangs of frustrated lust all for naught. scarcely for naught, varys assured him. they know you are here. whether any will be bold enough to enter chataya's in the guise of patrons i cannot say, but i find it best to err on the side of caution. how is it a brothel happens to have a secret entrance? the tunnel was dug for another king's hand, whose honor would not allow him to enter such a house openly. chataya has closely guarded the knowledge of its existence. and yet you knew of it. little birds fly through many a dark tunnel. careful, the steps are steep. they emerged through a trap at the back of a stable, having come perhaps a distance of three blocks under rhaenys's hill. a horse whickered in his stall when tyrion let the door slam shut. varys blew out the candle and set it on a beam and tyrion gazed about. a mule and three horses occupied the stalls. he waddled over to the piebald gelding and took a look at his teeth. old, he said, and i have my doubts about his wind. he is not a mount to carry you into battle, true, varys replied, but he will serve, and attract no notice. as will the others. and the stableboys see and hear only the animals. the eunuch took a cloak from a peg. it was roughspun, sun- faded, and threadbare, but very ample in its cut. if you will permit me. when he swept it over tyrion's shoulders it enveloped him head to heel, with a cowl that could be pulled forward to drown his face in shadows. men see what they expect to see, varys said as he fussed and pulled. dwarfs are not so common a sight as children, so a child is what they will see. a boy in an old cloak on his father's horse, going about his father's business. though it would be best if you came most often by night. i plan to... after today. at the moment, though, shae awaits me. he had put her up in a walled manse at the far northeast corner of king's landing, not far from the sea, but he had not dared visit her there for fear of being followed. which horse will you have? tyrion shrugged. this one will do well enough. i shall saddle him for you. varys took tack and saddle down from a peg. tyrion adjusted the heavy cloak and paced restlessly. you missed a lively council. stannis has crowned himself, it seems. i know. he accuses my brother and sister of incest. i wonder how he came by that suspicion. perhaps he read a book and looked at the color of a bastard's hair, as ned stark did, and jon arryn before him. or perhaps someone whispered it in his ear. the eunuch's laugh was not his usual giggle, but deeper and more throaty. someone like you, perchance? am i suspected? it was not me. if it had been, would you admit it? no. but why should i betray a secret i have kept so long? it is one thing to deceive a king, and quite another to hide from the cricket in the rushes and the little bird in the chimney. besides, the bastards were there for all to see. robert's bastards? what of them? he fathered eight, to the best of my knowing, varys said as he wrestled with the saddle. their mothers were copper and honey, chestnut and butter, yet the babes were all black as ravens... and as ill-omened, it would seem. so when joffrey, myrcella, and tommen slid out between your sister's thighs, each as golden as the sun, the truth was not hard to glimpse. tyrion shook his head. if she had borne only one child for her husband, it would have been enough to disarm suspicion... but then she would not have been cersei. if you were not this whisperer, who was? some traitor, doubtless. varys tightened the cinch. littlefinger? i named no name. tyrion let the eunuch help him mount. lord varys, he said from the saddle, sometimes i feel as though you are the best friend i have in king's landing, and sometimes i feel you are my worst enemy. how odd. i think quite the same of you. i do not sleep as i did when i was younger, grand maester pycelle told him, by way of apology for the dawn meeting. i would sooner be up, though the world be dark, than lie restless abed, fretting on tasks undone, he said-though his heavy-lidded eyes made him look half-asleep as he said it. in the airy chambers beneath the rookery, his girl served them boiled eggs, stewed plums, and porridge, while pycelle served the pontifications. in these sad times, when so many hunger, i think it only fitting to keep my table spare. commendable, tyrion admitted, breaking a large brown egg that reminded him unduly of the grand maester's bald spotted head. i take a different view. if there is food i eat it, in case there is none on the morrow. he smiled. tell me, are your ravens early risers as well? pycelle stroked the snowy beard that flowed down his chest. to be sure. shall i send for quill and ink after we have eaten? no need. tyrion laid the letters on the table beside his porridge, twin parchments tightly rolled and sealed with wax at both ends. send your girl away, so we can talk. leave us, child, pycelle commanded. the serving girl hurried from the room. these letters, now... for the eyes of doran martell, prince of dome. tyrion peeled the cracked shell away from his egg and took a bite. it wanted salt. one letter, in two copies. send your swiftest birds. the matter is of great import. i shall dispatch them as soon as we have broken our fast. dispatch them now. stewed plums will keep. the realm may not. lord renly is leading his host up the roseroad, and no one can say when lord stannis will sail from dragonstone. pycelle blinked. if my lord prefers- he does. i am here to serve. the maester pushed himself ponderously to his feet his chain of office clinking softly. it was a heavy thing, a dozen maester's collars threaded around and through each other and ornamented with gemstones. and it seemed to tyrion that the gold and silver and platinum links far outnumbered those of baser metals. pycelle moved so slowly that tyrion had time to finish his egg and taste the plums-overcooked and watery, to his taste-before the sound of wings prompted him to rise. he spied the raven, dark in the dawn sky, and turned briskly toward the maze of shelves at the far end of the room. the maester's medicines made an impressive display; dozens of pots sealed with wax, hundreds of stoppered vials, as many milkglass bottles, countless jars of dried herbs, each container neatly labeled in pycelle's precise hand. an orderly mind, tyrion reflected, and indeed, once you puzzled out the arrangement, it was easy to see that every potion had its place. and such interesting things. he noted sweetsleep and nightshade, milk of the poppy, the tears of lys, powdered greycap, wolfsbane and demon's dance, basilisk venom, blindeye, widow's blood... standing on his toes and straining upward, he managed to pull a small dusty bottle off the high shelf. when he read the label, he smiled and slipped it up his sleeve. he was back at the table peeling another egg when grand maester pycelle came creeping down the stairs. it is done, my lord. the old man seated himself. a matter like this... best done promptly, indeed, indeed... of great import, you say? oh, yes. the porridge was too thick, tyrion felt, and wanted butter and honey. to be sure, butter and honey were seldom seen in king's landing of late, though lord gyles kept them well supplied in the castle. half of the food they ate these days came from his lands or lady tanda's. rosby and stokeworth lay near the city to the north, and were yet untouched by war. the prince of dome, himself. might i ask. best not. as you say. pycelle's curiosity was so ripe that tyrion could almost taste it. mayhaps... the king's council... tyrion tapped his wooden spoon against the edge of the bowl. the council exists to advise the king, maester. just so, said pycelle, and the king- -is a boy of thirteen. i speak with his voice. so you do. indeed. the king's own hand. yet... your most gracious sister, our queen regent, she... ...bears a great weight upon those lovely white shoulders of hers. i have no wish to add to her burdens. do you? tyrion cocked his head and gave the grand maester an inquiring stare. pycelle dropped his gaze back to his food. something about tyrion's mismatched green-and- black eyes made men squirm; knowing that, he made good use of them. ah, the old man muttered into his plums. doubtless you have the right of it, my lord. it is most considerate of you to... spare her this... burden. that's just the sort of fellow i am. tyrion returned to the unsatisfactory porridge. considerate. cersei is my own sweet sister, after all. and a woman, to be sure, grand maester pycelle said. a most uncommon woman, and yet... it is no small thing, to tend to all the cares of the realm, despite the frailty of her sex... oh, yes, she's a frail dove, just ask eddard stark. i'm pleased you share my concern. and i thank you for the hospitality of your table. but a long day awaits. he swung his legs out and clambered down from his chair. be so good as to inform me at once should we receive a reply from dome?  as you say, my lord. and only me? ah... to be sure. pycelle's spotted hand was clutching at his beard the way a drowning man clutches for a rope. it made tyrion's heart glad. one, he thought. he waddled out into the lower bailey; his stunted legs complained of the steps. the sun was well up now, and the castle was stirring. guardsmen walked the walls, and knights and men-at- arms were training with blunted weapons. nearby, bronn sat on the lip of a well. a pair of comely serving girls sauntered past carrying a wicker basket of rushes between them, but the sellsword never looked. bronn, i despair of you. tyrion gestured at the wenches. with sweet sights like that before you, all you see is a gaggle of louts raising a clangor. there are a hundred whorehouses in this city where a clipped copper will buy me all the cunt i want, bronn answered, but one day my life may hang on how close i've watched your louts. he stood. who's the boy in the checkered blue surcoat with the three eyes on his shield? some hedge knight. tallad, he names himself. why? bronn pushed a fall of hair from his eyes. he's the best of them. but watch him, he falls into a rhythm, delivering the same strokes in the same order each time he attacks. he grinned. that will be the death of him, the day he faces me. he's pledged to joffrey; he's not like to face you. they set off across the bailey, bronn matching his long stride to tyrion' s short one. these days the sellsword was looking almost respectable. his dark hair was washed and brushed, he was freshly shaved, and he wore the black breastplate of an officer of the city watch. from his shoulders trailed a cloak of lannister crimson patterned with golden hands. tyrion had made him a gift of it when he named-him captain of his personal guard. how many supplicants do we have today? he inquired. thirty odd, answered bronn. most with complaints, or wanting something, as ever. your pet was back. he groaned. lady tanda? her page. she invites you to sup with her again. there's to be a haunch of venison, she says, a brace of stuffed geese sauced with mulberries, and- -her daughter, tyrion finished sourly. since the hour he had arrived in the red keep, lady tanda had been stalking him, armed with a never-ending arsenal of lamprey pies, wild boars, and savory cream stews. somehow she had gotten the notion that a dwarf lordling would be the perfect consort for her daughter lollys, a large, soft, dim-witted girl who rumor said was still a maid at thirty-and-three. send her my regrets. no taste for stuffed goose? bronn grinned evilly. perhaps you should eat the goose and marry the maid. or better still, send shagga. shagga's more like to eat the maid and marry the goose, observed bronn. anyway, lollys outweighs him. there is that, tyrion admitted as they passed under the shadow of a covered walkway between two towers. who else wants me? the sellsword grew more serious. there's a moneylender from braavos, holding fancy papers and the like, requests to see the king about payment on some loan. as if joff could count past twenty. send the man to littlefinger, he'll find a way to put him off. next? a lordling down from the trident, says your father's men burned his keep, raped his wife, and killed all his peasants. i believe they call that war. tyrion smelled gregor clegane's work, or that of ser amory lorch or his father's other pet hellhound, the qohorik. what does he want of joffrey? new peasants, bronn said. he walked all this way to sing how loyal he is and beg for recompense. i'll make time for him on the morrow. whether truly loyal or merely desperate, a compliant river lord might have his uses. see that he's given a comfortable chamber and a hot meal. send him a new pair of boots as well, good ones, courtesy of king joffrey. a show of generosity never hurt. bronn gave a curt nod. there's also a great gaggle of bakers, butchers, and greengrocers clamoring to be heard. i told them last time, i have nothing to give them. only a thin trickle of food was coming into king's landing, most of it earmarked for castle and garrison. prices had risen sickeningly high on greens, roots, flour, and fruit, and tyrion did not want to think about what sorts of flesh might be going into the kettles of the pot-shops down in flea bottom. fish, he hoped. they still had the river and the sea... at least until lord stannis sailed. they want protection. last night a baker was roasted in his own oven. the mob claimed he charged too much for bread. did he? he's not apt to deny it. they didn't eat him, did they? not that i've heard. next time they will, tyrion said grimly. i give them what protection i can. the gold cloaks- they claim there were gold cloaks in the mob, bronn said. they're demanding to speak to the king himself. fools. tyrion had sent them off with regrets; his nephew would send them off with whips and spears. he was half-tempted to allow it... but no, he dare not. soon or late, some enemy would march on king's landing, and the last thing he wanted was willing traitors within the city walls. tell them king joffrey shares their fears and will do all he can for them. they want bread, not promises. if i give them bread today, on the morrow i'll have twice as many at the gates. who else? a black brother down from the wall. the steward says he brought some rotted hand in ajar. tyrion smiled wanly. i'm surprised no one ate it. i suppose i ought to see him. it's not yoren, perchance? no. some knight. thorne. ser alliser thorne? of all the black brothers he'd met on the wall, tyrion lannister had liked ser alliser thorne the least. a bitter, mean-spirited man with too great a sense of his own worth. come to think on it, i don't believe i care to see ser alliser just now. find him a snug cell where no one has changed the rushes in a year, and let his hand rot a little more. bronn snorted laughter and went his way, while tyrion struggled up the serpentine steps. as he limped across the outer yard, he heard the portcullis rattling up. his sister and a large party were waiting by the main gate. mounted on her white palfrey, cersei towered high above him, a goddess in green. brother, she called out, not warmly. the queen had not been pleased by the way he'd dealt with janos slynt. your grace. tyrion bowed politely. you look lovely this morning. her crown was gold, her cloak ermine. her retinue sat their mounts behind her: ser boros blount of the kingsguard, wearing white scale and his favorite scowl; ser balon swann, bow slung from his silver-inlay saddle; lord gyles rosby, his wheezing cough worse than ever; hallyne the pyromancer of the alchemists' guild; and the queen's newest favorite, their cousin ser lancel lannister, her late husband's squire upjumped to knight at his widow's insistence. vylarr and twenty guardsmen rode escort. where are you bound this day, sister? tyrion asked. i'm making a round of the gates to inspect the new scorpions and spitfires. i would not have it thought that all of us are as indifferent to the city's defense as you seem to be. cersei fixed him with those clear green eyes of hers, beautiful even in their contempt. i am informed that renly baratheon has marched from highgarden. he is making his way up the roseroad, with all his strength behind him. varys gave me the same report. he could be here by the full moon. not at his present leisurely pace, tyrion assured her. he feasts every night in a different castle, and holds court at every crossroads he passes. and every day, more men rally to his banners. his host is now said to be a hundred thousand strong. that seems rather high. he has the power of storm's end and highgarden behind him, you little fool, cersei snapped down at him. all the tyrell bannermen but for the redwynes, and you have me to thank for that. so long as i hold those poxy twins of his, lord paxter will squat on the arbor and count himself fortunate to be out of it. a pity you let the knight of flowers slip through your pretty fingers. still, renly has other concerns besides us. our father at harrenhal, robb stark at riverrun... were i he, i would do much as he is doing. make my progress, flaunt my power for the realm to see, watch, wait. let my rivals contend while i bide my own sweet time. if stark defeats us, the south will fall into renly's hands like a windfall from the gods, and he'll not have lost a man. and if it goes the other way, he can descend on us while we are weakened. cersei was not appeased. i want you to make father bring his army to king's landing. where it will serve no purpose but to make you feel safe. when have i ever been able to make father do anything? she ignored the question. and when do you plan to free jaime? he's worth a hundred of you. tyrion grinned crookedly. don't tell lady stark, i beg you. we don't have a hundred of me to trade. father must have been mad to send you. you're worse than useless. the queen jerked on her reins and wheeled her palfrey around. she rode out the gate at a brisk trot, ermine cloak streaming behind her. her retinue hastened after. in truth, renly baratheon did not frighten tyrion half so much as his brother stannis did. renly was beloved of the commons, but he had never before led men in war. stannis was otherwise: hard, cold, inexorable. if only they had some way of knowing what was happening on dragonstone... but not one of the fisherfolk he had paid to spy out the island had ever returned, and even the informers the eunuch claimed to have placed in stannis's household had been ominously silent. the striped hulls of lysene war galleys had been seen offshore, though, and varys had reports from myr of sellsail captains taking service with dragonstone. if stannis attacks by sea while his brother renly storms the gates, they'll soon be mounting joffrey's head on a spike. worse, mine will be beside him. a depressing thought. he ought to make plans to get shae safely out of the city, should the worst seem likely. podrick payne stood at the door of his solar, studying the floor. he's inside, he announced to tyrion's belt buckle. your solar. my lord. sorry. tyrion sighed. look at me, pod. it unnerves me when you talk to my codpiece, especially when i'm not wearing one. who is inside my solar? lord littlefinger. podrick managed a quick look at his face, then hastily dropped his eyes. i meant, lord petyr. lord baelish. the master of coin.  you make him sound a crowd. the boy hunched down as if struck, making tyrion feel absurdly guilty. lord petyr was seated on his window seat, languid and elegant in a plush plum-colored doublet and a yellow satin cape, one gloved hand resting on his knee. the king is fighting hares with a crossbow, he said. the hares are winning. come see. tyrion had to stand on his toes to get a look. a dead hare lay on the ground below; another, long ears twitching, was about to expire from the bolt in his side. spent quarrels lay strewn across the hard-packed earth like straws scattered by a storm. now! joff shouted. the gamesman released the hare he was holding, and he went bounding off. jo ffrey jerked the trigger on the crossbow. the bolt missed by two feet. the hare stood on his hind legs and twitched his nose at the king. cursing, joff spun the wheel to winch back his string, but the animal was gone before he was loaded. another! the gamesman reached into the hutch. this one made a brown streak against the stones, while joffrey's hurried shot almost took ser preston in the groin. littlefinger turned away. boy, are you fond of potted hare? he asked podrick payne. pod stared at the visitor's boots, lovely things of red-dyed leather ornamented with black scrollwork. to eat, my lord? invest in pots, littlefinger advised. hares will soon overrun the castle. we'll be eating hare thrice a day. better than rats on a skewer, said tyrion. pod, leave us. unless lord petyr would care for some refreshment? thank you, but no. littlefinger flashed his mocking smile. drink with the dwarf, it's said, and you wake up walking the wall. black brings out my unhealthy pallor. have no fear, my lord, tyrion thought, it's not the wall i have in mind for you. he seated himself in a high chair piled with cushions and said, you look very elegant today, my lord. i'm wounded. i strive to look elegant every day. is the doublet new? it is. you're most observant. plum and yellow. are those the colors of your house? no. but a man gets bored wearing the same colors day in and day out, or so i've found. that's a handsome knife as well. is it? there was mischief in littlefinger' s eyes. he drew the knife and glanced at it casually, as if he had never seen it before. valyrian steel, and a dragonbone hilt. a trifle plain, though. it's yours, if you would like it. mine? tyrion gave him a long look. no. i think not. never mine. he knows, the insolent wretch. he knows and he knows that i know, and he thinks that i cannot touch him. if ever truly a man had armored himself in gold, it was petyr baelish, not jaime lannister. jaime's famous armor was but gilded steel, but littlefinger, ah... tyrion had learned a few things about sweet petyr, to his growing disquiet. ten years ago, jon arryn had given him a minor sinecure in customs, where lord petyr had soon distinguished himself by bringing in three times as much as any of the king's other collectors. king robert had been a prodigious spender. a man like petyr baelish, who had a gift for rubbing two golden dragons together to breed a third, was invaluable to his hand. littlefinger's rise had been arrow-swift. within three years of his coming to court, he was master of coin and a member of the small council, and today the crown's revenues were ten times what they had been under his beleaguered predecessor... though the crown's debts had grown vast as well. a master juggler was petyr baelish. oh, he was clever. he did not simply collect the gold and lock it in a treasure vault, no. he paid the king's debts in promises, and put the king's gold to work. he bought wagons, shops, ships, houses. he bought grain when it was plentiful and sold bread when it was scarce. he bought wool from the north and linen from the south and lace from lys, stored it, moved it, dyed it, sold it. the golden dragons bred and multiplied, and littlefinger lent them out and brought them home with hatchlings. and in the process, he moved his own men into place. the keepers of the keys were his, all four. the king's counter and the king's scales were men he'd named. the officers in charge of all three mints. harbormasters, tax farmers, customs sergeants, wool factors, toll collectors, pursers, wine factors; nine of every ten belonged to littlefinger. they were men of middling birth, by and large; merchants' sons, lesser lordlings, sometimes even foreigners, but judging from their results, far more able than their highborn predecessors. no one had ever thought to question the appointments, and why should they? littlefinger was no threat to anyone. a clever, smiling, genial man, everyone's friend, always able to find whatever gold the king or his hand required, and yet of such undistinguished birth, one step up from a hedge knight, he was not a man to fear. he had no banners to call, no army of retainers, no great stronghold, no holdings to speak of, no prospects of a great marriage. but do i dare touch him? tyrion wondered. even if he is a traitor? he was not at all certain he could, least of all now, while the war raged. given time, he could replace littlefinger's men with his own in key positions, but... a shout rang up from the yard. ah, his grace has killed a hare, lord baelish observed. no doubt a slow one, tyrion said. my lord, you were fostered at riverrun. i've heard it said that you grew close to the tullys. you might say so. the girls especially. how close? i had their maidenhoods. is that close enough? the lie-tyrion was fairly certain it was a lie-was delivered with such an air of nonchalance that one could almost believe it. could it have been catelyn stark who lied? about her defloration, and the dagger as well? the longer he lived, the more tyrion realized that nothing was simple and little was true. lord hoster's daughters do not love me, he confessed. i doubt they would listen to any proposal i might make. yet coming from you, the same words might fall more sweetly on their ears.  that would depend on the words. if you mean to offer sansa in return for your brother, waste someone else's time. joffrey will never surrender his plaything, and lady catelyn is not so great a fool as to barter the kingslayer for a slip of a girl. i mean to have arya as well. i have men searching. searching is not finding. i'll keep that in mind, my lord. in any case, it was lady lysa i hoped you might sway. for her, i have a sweeter offer. lysa is more tractable than catelyn, true... but also more fearful, and i understand she hates you. she believes she has good reason. when i was her guest in the eyrie, she insisted that i'd murdered her husband and was not inclined to listen to denials. he leaned forward. if i gave her jon arryn's true killer, she might think more kindly of me. that made littlefinger sit up. true killer? i confess, you make me curious. who do you propose? it was tyrion's turn to smile. gifts i give my friends, freely. lysa arryn would need to understand that. is it her friendship you require, or her swords? both. littlefinger stroked the neat spike of his beard. lysa has woes of her own. clansmen raiding out of the mountains of the moon, in greater numbers than ever before... and better armed. distressing, said tyrion lannister, who had armed them. i could help her with that. a word from me... and what would this word cost her? i want lady lysa and her son to acclaim joffrey as king, to swear fealty, and to make war on the starks and tullys? littlefinger shook his head. there's the roach in your pudding, lannister. lysa will never send her knights against riverrun. nor would i ask it. we have no lack of enemies. i'll use her power to oppose lord renly, or lord stannis, should he stir from dragonstone. in return, i will give her justice for jon arryn and peace in the vale. i will even name that appalling child of hers warden of the east, as his father was before him. i want to see him fly, a boy's voice whispered faintly in memory. and to seal the bargain, i will give her my niece. he had the pleasure of seeing a look of genuine surprise in petyr baelish's grey-green eyes. myrcella? when she comes of age, she can wed little lord robert. until such time, she'll be lady lysa's ward at the eyrie. and what does her grace the queen think of this ploy? when tyrion shrugged, littlefinger burst into laughter. i thought not. you're a dangerous little man, lannister. yes, i could sing this song to lysa. again the sly smile, the mischief in his glance. if i cared to. tyrion nodded, waiting, knowing littlefinger could never abide a long silence. so, lord petyr continued after a pause, utterly unabashed, what's in your pot for me? harrenhal. it was interesting to watch his face. lord petyr's father had been the smallest of small lords, his grandfather a landless hedge knight; by birth, he held no more than a few stony acres on the windswept shore of the fingers. harrenhal was one of the richest plums in the seven kingdoms, its lands broad and rich and fertile, its great castle as formidable as any in the realm... and so large as to dwarf riverrun, where petyr baelish had been fostered by house tully, only to be brusquely expelled when he dared raise his sights to lord hoster's daughter. littlefinger took a moment to adjust the drape of his cape, but tyrion had seen the flash of hunger in those sly cat's eyes. i have him, he knew. harrenhal is cursed, lord petyr said after a moment, trying to sound bored. then raze it to the ground and build anew to suit yourself. you'll have no lack of coin. i mean to make you liege lord of the trident. these river lords have proven they cannot be trusted. let them do you fealty for their lands. even the tullys? if there are any tullys left when we are done. littlefinger looked like a boy who had just taken a furtive bite from a honeycomb. he was trying to watch for bees, but the honey was so sweet. harrenhal and all its lands and incomes, he mused. with a stroke, you'd make me one of the greatest lords in the realm. not that i'm ungrateful, my lord, but-why? you served my sister well in the matter of the succession. as did janos slynt. on whom this same castle of harrenhal was quite recently bestowed-only to be snatched away when he was no longer of use. tyrion laughed. you have me, my lord. what can i say? i need you to deliver the lady lysa. i did not need janos slynt. he gave a crooked shrug. i'd sooner have you seated in harrenhal than renly seated on the iron throne. what could be plainer? what indeed. you realize that i may need to bed lysa arryn again to get her consent to this marriage? i have little doubt you'll be equal to the task. i once told ned stark that when you find yourself naked with an ugly woman, the only thing to do is close your eyes and get on with it. little finger steep led his fingers and gazed into tyrion' s mismatched eyes. give me a fortnight to conclude my affairs and arrange for a ship to carry me to gulltown. that will do nicely. his guest rose. this has been quite the pleasant morning, lannister. and profitable... for both of us, i trust. he bowed, his cape a swirl of yellow as he strode out the door. two, thought tyrion. he went up to his bedchamber to await varys, who would soon be making an appearance. evenfall, he guessed. perhaps as late as moonrise, though he hoped not. he hoped to visit shae tonight. he was pleasantly surprised when gait of the stone crows informed him not an hour later that the powdered man was at his door. you are a cruel man, to make the grand maester squirm so, the eunuch scolded. the man cannot abide a secret. is that a crow i hear, calling the raven black? or would you sooner not hear what i've proposed to doran martell? varys giggled. perhaps my little birds have told me. have they, indeed? he wanted to hear this. go on. the dornishmen thus far have held aloof from these wars. doran martell has called his banners, but no more. his hatred for house lannister is well known, and it is commonly thought he will join lord renly. you wish to dissuade him. all this is obvious, said tyrion. the only puzzle is what you might have offered for his allegiance. the prince is a sentimental man, and he still mourns his sister elia and her sweet babe. my father once told me that a lord never lets sentiment get in the way of ambition... and it happens we have an empty seat on the small council, now that lord janos has taken the black. a council seat is not to be despised, varys admitted, yet will it be enough to make a proud man forget his sister's murder? why forget? tyrion smiled. i've promised to deliver his sister's killers, alive or dead, as he prefers. after the war is done, to be sure. varys gave him a shrewd look. my little birds tell me that princess elia cried a... certain name... when they came for her. is a secret still a secret if everyone knows it? in casterly rock, it was common knowledge that gregor clegane had killed elia and her babe. they said he had raped the princess with her son's blood and brains still on his hands. this secret is your lord father's sworn man. my father would be the first to tell you that fifty thousand dornishmen are worth one rabid dog. varys stroked a powdered cheek. and if prince doran demands the blood of the lord who gave the command as well as the knight who did the deed... robert baratheon led the rebellion. all commands came from him, in the end. robert was not at king's landing. neither was doran martell. so. blood for his pride, a chair for his ambition. gold and land, that goes without saying. a sweet offer... yet sweets can be poisoned. if i were the prince, something more would i require before i should reach for this honeycomb. some token of good faith, some sure safeguard against betrayal. varys smiled his slimiest smile. which one will you give him, i wonder? tyrion sighed. you know, don't you? since you put it that way-yes. tommen. you could scarcely offer myrcella to doran martell and lysa arryn both. remind me never to play these guessing games with you again. you cheat.  prince tommen is a good boy. if i pry him away from cersei and joffrey while he's still young, he may even grow to be a good man. and a good king? joffrey is king. and tommen is heir, should anything ill befall his grace. tommen, whose nature is so sweet, and notably... tractable. you have a suspicious mind, varys. i shall take that as a tribute, my lord. in any case, prince doran will hardly be insensible of the great honor you do him. very deftly done, i would say... but for one small flaw. the dwarf laughed. named cersei? what avails statecraft against the love of a mother for the sweet fruit of her womb? perhaps, for the glory of her house and the safety of the realm, the queen might be persuaded to send away tommen or myrcella. but both of them? surely not. what cersei does not know will never hurt me. and if her grace were to discover your intentions before your plans are ripe? why, he said, then i would know the man who told her to be my certain enemy. and when varys giggled, he thought, three. they had warned him to dress warmly. tyrion lannister took them at their word. he was garbed in heavy quilted breeches and a woolen doublet, and over it all he had thrown the shadowskin cloak he had acquired in the mountains of the moon. the cloak was absurdly long, made for a man twice his height. when he was not ahorse, the only way to wear the thing was to wrap it around him several times, which made him look like a ball of striped fur. even so, he was glad he had listened. the chill in the long dank vault went bone deep. timett had chosen to retreat back up to the cellar after a brief taste of the cold below. they were somewhere under the hill of rhaenys, behind the guildhall of the alchemists. the damp stone walls were splotchy with nitre, and the only light came from the sealed ironand-glass oil lamp that hallyne the pyromancer carried so gingerly. gingerly indeed... and these would be the ginger jars. tyrion lifted one for inspection. it was round and ruddy, a fat clay grapefruit. a little big for his hand, but it would fit comfortably in the grip of a normal man, he knew. the pottery was thin, so fragile that even he had been warned not to squeeze too tightly, lest he crush it in his fist. the clay felt roughened, pebbled. hallyne told him that was intentional. a smooth pot is more apt to slip from a man's grasp. the wildfire oozed slowly toward the lip of the jar when tyrion tilted it to peer inside. the color would be a murky green, he knew, but the poor light made that impossible to confirm. thick, he observed. that is from the cold, my lord, said hallyne, a pallid man with soft damp hands and an obsequious manner. he was dressed in striped blackand-scarlet robes trimmed with sable, but the fur looked more than a little patchy and moth-eaten. as it warms, the substance will flow more easily, like lamp oil. the substance was the pyromancers' own term for wildfire. they called each other wisdom as well, which tyrion found almost as annoying as their custom of hinting at the vast secret stores of knowledge that they wanted him to think they possessed. once theirs had been a powerful guild, but in recent centuries the maesters of the citadel had supplanted the alchemists almost everywhere. now only a few of the older order remained, and they no longer even pretended to transmute metals... ... but they could make wildfire. water will not quench it, i am told... that is so. once it takes fire, the substance will burn fiercely until it is no more. more, it will seep into cloth, wood, leather, even steel, so they take fire as well. tyrion remembered the red priest thoros of myr and his flaming sword. even a thin coating of wildfire could burn for an hour. thoros always needed a new sword after a melee, but robert had been fond of the man and ever glad to provide one. why doesn't it seep into the clay as well? oh, but it does, said hallyne. there is a vault below this one where we store the older pots. those from king aerys's day. it was his fancy to have the jars made in the shapes of fruits. very perilous fruits indeed, my lord hand, and, hmmm, riper now than ever, if you take my meaning. we have sealed them with wax and pumped the lower vault full of water, but even so... by rights they ought to have been destroyed, but so many of our masters were murdered during the sack of king's landing, the few acolytes who remained were unequal to the task. and much of the stock we made for aerys was lost. only last year, two hundred jars were discovered in a storeroom beneath the great sept of baelor. no one could recall how they came there, but i'm sure i do not need to tell you that the high septon was beside himself with terror. i myself saw that they were safely moved. i had a cart filled with sand, and sent our most able acolytes. we worked only by night, we- -did a splendid job, i have no doubt. tyrion placed the jar he'd been holding back among its fellows. they covered the table, standing in orderly rows of four and marching away into the subterranean dimness. and there were other tables beyond, many other tables. these, ah, fruits of the late king aerys, can they still be used? oh, yes, most certainly... but carefully, my lord, ever so carefully. as it ages, the substance grows ever more, hmmmm, fickle, let us say. any flame will set it afire. any spark. too much heat and jars will blaze up of their own accord. it is not wise to let them sit in sunlight, even for a short time. once the fire begins within, the heat causes the substance to expand violently, and the jars shortly fly to pieces. if other jars should happen to be stored in the same vicinity, those go up as well, and so- how many jars do you have at present? this morning the wisdom munciter told me that we had seven thousand eight hundred and forty. that count includes four thousand jars from king aerys's day, to be sure. our overripe fruits? hallyne bobbed his head. wisdom malliard believes we shall be able to provide a full ten thousand jars, as was promised the queen. i concur. the pyromancer looked indecently pleased with that prospect. assuming our enemies give you the time. the pyromancers kept their recipe for wildfire a closely guarded secret, but tyrion knew that it was a lengthy, dangerous, and time-consuming process. he had assumed the promise often thousand jars was a wild boast, like that of the bannerman who vows to marshal ten thousand swords for his lord and shows up on the day of battle with a hundred and two. if they can truly give us ten thousand... he did not know whether he ought to be delighted or terrified. perhaps a smidge of both. i trust that your guild brothers are not engaging in any unseemly haste, wisdom. we do not want ten thousand jars of defective wildfire, nor even one... and we most certainly do not want any mishaps. there will be no mishaps, my lord hand. the substance is prepared by trained acolytes in a series of bare stone cells, and each jar is removed by an apprentice and carried down here the instant it is ready. above each work cell is a room filled entirely with sand. a protective spell has been laid on the floors, hmmm, most powerful. any fire in the cell below causes the floors to fall away, and the sand smothers the blaze at once. not to mention the careless acolyte. by spell tyrion imagined hallyne meant clever trick. he thought he would like to inspect one of these false-ceilinged cells to see how it worked, but this was not the time. perhaps when the war was won. my brethren are never careless, hallyne insisted. if i may be, hmmmm, frank oh, do. the substance flows through my veins, and lives in the heart of every pyromancer. we respect its power. but the common soldier, hmmmm, the crew of one of the queen's spitfires, say, in the unthinking frenzy of battle... any little mistake can bring catastrophe. that cannot be said too often. my father often told king aerys as much, as his father told old king jaehaerys. they must have listened, tyrion said. if they had burned the city down, someone would have told me. so your counsel is that we had best be careful?  be very careful, said hallyne. be very very careful. these clay jars... do you have an ample supply? we do, my lord, and thank you for asking. you won't mind if i take some, then. a few thousand. a few thousand? or however many your guild can spare, without interfering with production. it's empty pots i'm asking for, understand. have them sent round to the captains on each of the city gates. i will, my lord, but why... ? tyrion smiled up at him. when you tell me to dress warmly, i dress warmly. when you tell me to be careful, well... he gave a shrug. i've seen enough. perhaps you would be so good as to escort me back up to my litter? it would be my great, hmmm, pleasure, my lord. hallyne lifted the lamp and led the way back to the stairs. it was good of you to visit us. a great honor, hmmm. it has been too long since the king's hand graced us with his presence. not since lord rossart, and he was of our order. that was back in king aerys's day. king aerys took a great interest in our work. king aerys used you to roast the flesh off his enemies. his brother jaime had told him a few stories of the mad king and his pet pyromancers. joffrey will be interested as well, i have no doubt. which is why i'd best keep him well away from you. it is our great hope to have the king visit our guildhall in his own royal person. i have spoken of it to your royal sister. a great feast... it was growing warmer as they climbed. his grace has prohibited all feasting until such time as the war is won. at my insistence. the king does not think it fitting to banquet on choice food while his people go without bread. a most, hmmm, loving gesture, my lord. perhaps instead some few of us might call upon the king at the red keep. a small demonstration of our powers, as it were, to distract his grace from his many cares for an evening. wildfire is but one of the dread secrets of our ancient order. many and wondrous are the things we might show you. i will take it up with my sister. tyrion had no objection to a few magic tricks, but joff s fondness for making men fight to the death was trial enough; he had no intention of allowing the boy to taste the possibilities of burning them alive. when at last they reached the top of the steps, tyrion shrugged out of his shadowskin fur and folded it over his arm. the guildhall of the alchemists was an imposing warren of black stone, but hallyne led him through the twists and turns until they reached the gallery of the iron torches, a long echoing chamber where columns of green fire danced around black metal columns twenty feet tall. ghostly flames shimmered off the polished black marble of the walls and floor and bathed the hall in an emerald radiance. tyrion would have been more impressed if he hadn't known that the great iron torches had only been lit this morning in honor of his visit, and would be extinguished the instant the doors closed behind him. wildfire was too costly to squander. they emerged atop the broad curving steps that fronted on the street of the sisters, near the foot of visenya's hill. he bid hallyne farewell and waddled down to where timett son of timett waited with an escort of burned men. given his purpose today, it had seemed a singularly appropriate choice for his guard. besides, their scars struck terror in the hearts of the city rabble. that was all to the good these days. only three nights past, another mob had gathered at the gates of the red keep, chanting for food. joff had unleashed a storm of arrows against them, slaying four, and then shouted down that they had his leave to eat their dead. winning us still more friends. tyrion was surprised to see bronn standing beside the litter as well. what are you doing here? delivering your messages, bronn said. ironhand wants you urgently at the gate of the gods. he won't say why. and you've been summoned to maegor's too. summoned? tyrion knew of only one person who would presume to use that word. and what does cersei want of me? bronn shrugged. the queen commands you to return to the castle at once and attend her in her chambers. that stripling cousin of yours delivered the message. four hairs on his lip and he thinks he's a man. four hairs and a knighthood. he's ser lancel now, never forget. tyrion knew that ser jacelyn would not send for him unless the matter was of import. i'd best see what bywater wants. inform my sister that i will attend her on my return. she won't like that, bronn warned. good. the longer cersei waits, the angrier she'll become, and anger makes her stupid. i much prefer angry and stupid to composed and cunning. tyrion tossed his folded cloak into his litter, and timett helped him up after it. the market square inside the gate of the gods, which in normal times would have been thronged with farmers selling vegetables, was near deserted when tyrion crossed it. ser jacelyn met him at the gate, and raised his iron hand in brusque salute. my lord. your cousin cleos frey is here, come from riverrun under a peace banner with a letter from robb stark. peace terms? so he says. sweet cousin. show me to him. the gold cloaks had confined ser cleos to a windowless guardroom in the gatehouse. he rose when they entered. tyrion, you are a most welcome sight. that's not something i hear often, cousin. has cersei come with you? my sister is otherwise occupied. is this stark's letter? he plucked it off the table. ser jacelyn, you may leave us. bywater bowed and departed. i was asked to bring the offer to the queen regent, ser cleos said as the door shut. i shall. tyrion glanced over the map that robb stark had sent with his letter. all in good time, cousin. sit. rest. you look gaunt and haggard. he looked worse than that, in truth. yes. ser cleos lowered himself onto a bench. it is bad in the riverlands, tyrion. around the gods eye and along the kingsroad especially. the river lords are burning their own crops to try and starve us, and your father's foragers are torching every village they take and putting the smallfolk to the sword. that was the way of war. the smallfolk were slaughtered, while the highborn were held for ransom. remind me to thank the gods that i was born a lannister. ser cleos ran a hand through his thin brown hair. even with a peace banner, we were attacked twice. wolves in mail, hungry to savage anyone weaker than themselves. the gods alone know what side they started on, but they're on their own side now. lost three men, and twice as many wounded. what news of our foe? tyrion turned his attention back to stark's terms. the boy does not want too much. only half the realm, the release of our captives, hostages, his father's sword... oh, yes, and his sisters. the boy sits idle at riverrun, ser cleos said. i think he fears to face your father in the field. his strength grows less each day. the river lords have departed, each to defend his own lands. is this what father intended? tyrion rolled up stark's map. these terms will never do. will you at least consent to trade the stark girls for tion and willem? ser cleos asked plaintively. tion frey was his younger brother, tyrion recalled. no, he said gently, but we'll propose our own exchange of captives. let me consult with cersei and the council. we shall send you back to riverrun with our terms. clearly, the prospect did not cheer him. my lord, i do not believe robb stark will yield easily. it is lady catelyn who wants this peace, not the boy. lady catelyn wants her daughters. tyrion pushed himself down from the bench, letter and map in hand. ser jacelyn will see that you have food and fire. you look in dire need of sleep, cousin. i will send for you when we know more. he found ser jacelyn on the ramparts, watching several hundred new recruits drilling in the field below. with so many seeking refuge in king's landing, there was no lack of men willing to join the city watch for a full belly and a bed of straw in the barracks, but tyrion had no illusions about how well these ragged defenders of theirs would fight if it came to battle. you did well to send for me, tyrion said. i shall leave ser cleos in your hands. he is to have every hospitality. and his escort? the commander wanted to know. give them food and clean garb, and find a maester to see to their hurts. they are not to set foot inside the city, is that understood? it would never do to have the truth of conditions in king's landing reach robb stark in riverrun. well understood, my lord. oh, and one more thing. the alchemists will be sending a large supply of clay pots to each of the city gates. you're to use them to train the men who will work your spitfires. fill the pots with green paint and have them drill at loading and firing. any man who spatters should be replaced. when they have mastered the paint pots, substitute lamp oil and have them work at lighting the jars and firing them while aflame. once they learn to do that without burning themselves, they may be ready for wildfire. ser jacelyn scratched at his cheek with his iron hand. wise measures. though i have no love for that alchemist's piss. nor i, but i use what i'm given. once back inside his litter, tyrion lannister drew the curtains and plumped a cushion under his elbow. cersei would be displeased to learn that he had intercepted stark's letter, but his father had sent him here to rule, not to please cersei. it seemed to him that robb stark had given them a golden chance. let the boy wait at riverrun dreaming of an easy peace. tyrion would reply with terms of his own, giving the king in the north just enough of what he wanted to keep him hopeful. let ser cleos wear out his bony frey rump riding to and fro with offers and counters. all the while, their cousin ser stafford would be training and arming the new host he'd raised at casterly rock. once he was ready, he and lord tywin could smash the tullys and starks between them. now if only robert's brothers would be so accommodating. glacial as his progress was, still renly baratheon crept north and east with his huge southron host, and scarcely a night passed that tyrion did not dread being awakened with the news that lord stannis was sailing his fleet up the blackwater rush. well, it would seem i have a goodly stock of wildfire, but still... the sound of some hubbub in the street intruded on his worries. tyrion peered out cautiously between the curtains. they were passing through cobbler's square, where a sizable crowd had gathered beneath the leather awnings to listen to the rantings of a prophet. a robe of undyed wool belted with a hempen rope marked him for one of the begging brothers. corruption! the man cried shrilly. there is the warning! behold the father's scourge! he pointed at the fuzzy red wound in the sky. from this vantage, the distant castle on aegon's high hill was directly behind him, with the comet hanging forebodingly over its towers. a clever choice of stage, tyrion reflected. we have become swollen, bloated, foul. brother couples with sister in the bed of kings, and the fruit of their incest capers in his palace to the piping of a twisted little monkey demon. highborn ladies fornicate with fools and give birth to monsters! even the high septon has forgotten the gods! he bathes in scented waters and grows fat on lark and lamprey while his people starve! pride comes before prayer, maggots rule our castles, and gold is all... but no more! the rotten summer is at an end, and the whoremonger king is brought low! when the boar did open him, a great stench rose to heaven and a thousand snakes slid forth from his belly, hissing and biting! he jabbed his bony finger back at comet and castle. there comes the harbinger! cleanse yourselves, the gods cry out, lest ye be cleansed! bathe in the wine of righteousness, or you shall be bathed in fire! fire! fire! other voices echoed, but the hoots of derision almost drowned them out. tyrion took solace from that. he gave the command to continue, and the litter rocked like a ship on a rough sea as the burned men cleared a path. twisted little monkey demon indeed. the wretch did have a point about the high septon, to be sure. what was it that moon boy had said of him the other day? a pious man who worships the seven so fervently that he eats a meal for each of them whenever he sits to table. the memory of the fool's jape made tyrion smile. he was pleased to reach the red keep without further incident. as he climbed the steps to his chambers, tyrion felt a deal more hopeful than he had at dawn. time, that's all i truly need, time to piece it all together. once the chain is done... he opened the door to his solar. cersei turned away from the window, her skirts swirling around her slender hips. how dare you ignore my summons! who admitted you to my tower? your tower? this is my son's royal castle. so they tell me. tyrion was not amused. crawn would be even less so; his moon brothers had the guard today. i was about to come to you, as it happens. were you? he swung the door shut behind him. you doubt me? always, and with good reason. i'm hurt. tyrion waddled to the sideboard for a cup of wine. he knew no surer way to work up a thirst than talking with cersei. if i've given you offense, i would know how. what a disgusting little worm you are. myrcella is my only daughter. did you truly imagine that i would allow you to sell her like a bag of oats?  myrcella, he thought. well, that egg has hatched. let's see what color the chick is. hardly a bag of oats. myrcella is a princess. some would say this is what she was born for. or did you plan to marry her to tommen? her hand lashed out, knocking the wine cup from his hand to spill on the floor. brother or no, i should have your tongue out for that. i am joffrey's regent, not you, and i say that myrcella will not be shipped off to this dornishman the way i was shipped to robert baratheon. tyrion shook wine off his fingers and sighed. why not? she'd be a deal safer in dome than she is here. are you utterly ignorant or simply perverse? you know as well as i that the martells have no cause to love us. the martells have every cause to hate us. nonetheless, i expect them to agree. prince doran's grievance against house lannister goes back only a generation, but the dornishmen have warred against storm's end and highgarden for a thousand years, and renly has taken dome's allegiance for granted. myrcella is nine, trystane martell eleven. i have proposed they wed when she reaches her fourteenth year. until such time, she would be an honored guest at sunspear, under prince doran's protection. a hostage, cersei said, mouth tightening. an honored guest, tyrion insisted, and i suspect martell will treat myrcella more kindly than joffrey has treated sansa stark. i had in mind to send ser arys oakheart with her. with a knight of the kingsguard as her sworn shield, no one is like to forget who or what she is. small good ser arys will do her if doran martell decides that my daughter's death would wash out his sister's. martell is too honorable to murder a nine-year-old girl, particularly one as sweet and innocent as myrcella. so long as he holds her he can be reasonably certain that we'll keep faith on our side, and the terms are too rich to refuse. myrcella is the least part of it. i've also offered him his sister's killer, a council seat, some castles on the marches... too much. cersei paced away from him, restless as a lioness, skirts swirling. you've offered too much, and without my authority or consent. this is the prince of dome we are speaking of. if i'd offered less, he'd likely spit in my face. too much! cersei insisted, whirling back. what would you have offered him, that hole between your legs? tyrion said, his own anger flaring. this time he saw the slap coming. his head snapped around with a crack. sweet sweet sister, he said, i promise you, that was the last time you will ever strike me. his sister laughed. don't threaten me, little man. do you think father's letter keeps you safe? a piece of paper. eddard stark had a piece of paper too, for all the good it did him. eddard stark did not have the city watch, tyrion thought, nor my clansmen, nor the sellswords that bronn has hired. i do. or so he hoped. trusting in varys, in ser jacelyn bywater, in bronn. lord stark had probably had his delusions as well. yet he said nothing. a wise man did not pour wildfire on a brazier. instead he poured a fresh cup of wine. how safe do you think myrcella will be if king's landing falls? renly and stannis will mount her head beside yours. and cersei began to cry. tyrion lannister could not have been more astonished if aegon the conqueror himself had burst into the room, riding on a dragon and juggling lemon pies. he had not seen his sister weep since they were children together at casterly rock. awkwardly, he took a step toward her. when your sister cries, you were supposed to comfort her... but this was cersei! he reached a tentative hand for her shoulder. don't touch me, she said, wrenching away. it should not have hurt, yet it did, more than any slap. red- faced, as angry as she was grief stricken, cersei struggled for breath. don't look at me, not... not like this... not you. politely, tyrion turned his back. i did not mean to frighten you. i promise you, nothing will happen to myrcella. liar, she said behind him. i'm not a child, to be soothed with empty promises. you told me you would free jaime too. well, where is he?  in riverrun, i should imagine. safe and under guard, until i find a way to free him. cersei sniffed. i should have been born a man. i would have no need of any of you then. none of this would have been allowed to happen. how could jaime let himself be captured by that boy? and father, i trusted in him, fool that i am, but where is he now that he's wanted? what is he doing? making war. from behind the walls of harrenhal? she said scornfully. a curious way of fighting. it looks suspiciously like hiding. look again. what else would you call it? father sits in one castle, and robb stark sits in another, and no one does anything. there is sitting and there is sitting, tyrion suggested. each one waits for the other to move, but the lion is still, poised, his tail twitching, while the fawn is frozen by fear, bowels turned to jelly. no matter which way he bounds, the lion will have him, and he knows it. and you're quite certain that father is the lion? tyrion grinned. it's on all our banners. she ignored the jest. if it was father who'd been taken captive, jaime would not be sitting by idly, i promise you. jaime would be battering his host to bloody bits against the walls of riverrun, and the others take their chances. he never did have any patience, no more than you, sweet sister. not all of us can be as bold as jaime, but there are other ways to win wars. harrenhal is strong and well situated. and king's landing is not, as we both know perfectly well. while father plays lion and fawn with the stark boy, renly marches up the roseroad. he could be at our gates any day now! the city will not fall in a day. from harrenhal it is a straight, swift march down the kingsroad. renly will scarce have unlimbered his siege engines before father takes him in the rear. his host will be the hammer, the city walls the anvil, it makes a lovely picture. cersei' s green eyes bored into him, wary, yet hungry for the reassurance he was feeding her. and if robb stark marches? harrenhal is close enough to the fords of the trident so that roose bolton cannot bring the northern foot across to join with the young wolfs horse. stark cannot march on king's landing without taking harrenhal first, and even with bolton he is not strong enough to do that. tyrion tried his most winning smile. meanwhile father lives off the fat of the riverlands, while our uncle stafford gathers fresh levies at the rock. cersei regarded him suspiciously. how could you know all this? did father tell you his intentions when he sent you here? no. i glanced at a map. her look turned to disdain. you've conjured up every word of this in that grotesque head of yours, haven't you, imp? tyrion tsked. sweet sister, i ask you, if we weren't winning, would the starks have sued for peace? he drew out the letter that ser cleos frey had brought. the young wolf has sent us terms, you see. unacceptable terms, to be sure, but still, a beginning. would you care to see them?  yes. that fast, she was all queen again. how do you come to have them? they should have come to me. what else is a hand for, if not to hand you things? tyrion handed her the letter. his cheek still throbbed where cersei' s hand had left its mark. let her flay half my face, it will be a small price to pay for her consent to the dornish marriage. he would have that now, he could sense it. and certain knowledge of an informer too... well, that was the plum in his pudding. through the door came the soft sound of the high harp, mingled with a trilling of pipes. the singer's voice was muffled by the thick walls, yet tyrion knew the verse. i loved a maid as fair as summer, he remembered, with sunlight in her hair... ser meryn trant guarded the queen's door this night. his muttered my lord struck tyrion as a tad grudging, but he opened the door nonetheless. the song broke off abruptly as he strode into his sister's bedchamber. cersei was reclining on a pile of cushions. her feet were bare, her golden hair artfully tousled, her robe a green-and-gold samite that caught the light of the candles and shimmered as she looked up. sweet sister, tyrion said, how beautiful you look tonight. he turned to the singer. and you as well, cousin. i had no notion you had such a lovely voice. the compliment made ser lancel sulky; perhaps he thought he was being mocked. it seemed to tyrion that the lad had grown three inches since being knighted. lancel had thick sandy hair, green lannister eyes, and a line of soft blond fuzz on his upper lip. at sixteen, he was cursed with all the certainty of youth, unleavened by any trace of humor or selfdoubt, and wed to the arrogance that came so naturally to those born blond and strong and handsome. his recent elevation had only made him worse. did her grace send for you? the boy demanded. not that i recall, tyrion admitted. it grieves me to disturb your revels, lancel, but as it happens, i have matters of import to discuss with my sister. cersei regarded him suspiciously. if you are here about those begging brothers, tyrion, spare me your reproaches. i won't have them spreading their filthy treasons in the streets. they can preach to each other in the dungeons. and count themselves lucky that they have such a gentle queen, added lancel. i would have had their tongues out. one even dared to say that the gods were punishing us because jaime murdered the rightful king, cersei declared. it will not be borne, tyrion. i gave you ample opportunity to deal with these lice, but you and your ser jacelyn did nothing, so i commanded vylarr to attend to the matter. and so he did. tyrion had been annoyed when the red cloaks had dragged a half dozen of the scabrous prophets down to the dungeons without consulting him, but they were not important enough to battle over. no doubt we will all be better off for a little quiet in the streets. that is not why i came. i have tidings i know you will be anxious to hear, sweet sister, but they are best spoken of privily. very well. the harpist and the piper bowed and hurried out, while cersei kissed her cousin chastely on the cheek. leave us, lancel. my brother's harmless when he's alone. if he'd brought his pets, we'd smell them. the young knight gave his cousin a baleful glance and pulled the door shut forcefully behind him. i'll have you know i make shagga bathe once a fortnight, tyrion said when he was gone. you're very pleased with yourself, aren't you? why? why not? tyrion said. every day, every night, hammers rang along the street of steel, and the great chain grew longer. he hopped up onto the great canopied bed. is this the bed where robert died? i'm surprised you kept it. it gives me sweet dreams, she said. now spit out your business and waddle away, imp. tyrion smiled. lord stannis has sailed from dragonstone. cersei bolted to her feet. and yet you sit there grinning like a harvest-day pumpkin? has bywater called out the city watch? we must send a bird to harrenhal at once. he was laughing by then. she seized him by the shoulders and shook him. stop it. are you mad, or drunk? stop it! it was all he could do to get out the words. i can't, he gasped. it's too... gods, too funny... stannis -what-  he hasn't sailed against us, tyrion managed. he's laid siege to storm's end. renly is riding to meet him. his sister's nails dug painfully into his arms. for a moment she stared incredulous, as if he had begun to gibber in an unknown tongue. stannis and renly are fighting each other? when he nodded, cersei began to chuckle. gods be good, she gasped, i'm starting to believe that robert was the clever one. tyrion threw back his head and roared. they laughed together. cersei pulled him off the bed and whirled him around and even hugged him, for a moment as giddy as a girl. by the time she let go of him, tyrion was breathless and dizzy. he staggered to her sideboard and put out a hand to steady himself. do you think it will truly come to battle between them? if they should come to some accord- they won't, tyrion said. they are too different and yet too much alike, and neither could ever stomach the other. and stannis has always felt he was cheated of storm's end, cersei said thoughtfully. the ancestral seat of house baratheon, his by rights... if you knew how many times he came to robert singing that same dull song in that gloomy aggrieved tone he has. when robert gave the place to renly, stannis clenched his jaw so tight i thought his teeth would shatter. he took it as a slight. it was meant as a slight, cersei said. shall we raise a cup to brotherly love? yes, she answered, breathless. oh, gods, yes. his back was to her as he filled two cups with sweet arbor red. it was the easiest thing in the world to sprinkle a pinch of fine powder into hers. to stannis! he said as he handed her the wine. harmless when i'm alone, am i? to renly! she replied, laughing. may they battle long and hard, and the others take them both! is this the cersei that jaime sees? when she smiled, you saw how beautiful she was, truly. i loved a maid as fair as summer, with sunlight in her hair. he almost felt sorry for poisoning her. it was the next morning as he broke his fast that her messenger arrived. the queen was indisposed and would not be able to leave her chambers. not able to leave her privy, more like. tyrion made the proper sympathetic noises and sent word to cersei to rest easy, he would treat with ser cleos as they'd planned. the iron throne of aegon the conqueror was a tangle of nasty barbs and jagged metal teeth waiting for any fool who tried to sit too comfortably, and the steps made his stunted legs cramp as he climbed up to it, all too aware of what an absurd spectacle he must be. yet there was one thing to be said for it. it was high. lannister guardsmen stood silent in their crimson cloaks and lioncrested halfhelms. ser jacelyn's gold cloaks faced them across the hall. the steps to the throne were flanked by bronn and ser preston of the kingsguard. courtiers filled the gallery while supplicants clustered near the towering oak-and-bronze doors. sansa stark looked especially lovely this morning, though her face was as pale as milk. lord gyles stood coughing, while poor cousin tyrek wore his bridegroom's mantle of miniver and velvet. since his marriage to little lady ermesande three days past, the other squires had taken to calling him wet nurse and asking him what sort of swaddling clothes his bride wore on their wedding night. tyrion looked down on them all, and found he liked it. call forth ser cleos frey. his voice rang off the stone walls and down the length of the hall. he liked that too. a pity shae could not be here to see this, he reflected. she'd asked to come, but it was impossible. ser cleos made the long walk between the gold cloaks and the crimson, looking neither right nor left. as he knelt, tyrion observed that his cousin was losing his hair. ser cleos, littlefinger said from the council table, you have our thanks for bringing us this peace offer from lord stark. grand maester pycelle cleared his throat. the queen regent, the king's hand, and the small council have considered the terms offered by this self-styled king in the north. sad to say, they will not do, and you must tell these northmen so, ser. here are our terms, said tyrion. robb stark must lay down his sword, swear fealty, and return to winterfell. he must free my brother unharmed, and place his host under jaime's command, to march against the rebels renly and stannis baratheon. each of stark's bannermen must send us a son as hostage. a daughter will suffice where there is no son. they shall be treated gently and given high places here at court, so long as their fathers commit no new treasons. cleos frey looked ill. my lord hand, he said, lord stark will never consent to these terms. we never expected he would, cleos. tell him that we have raised another great host at casterly rock, that soon it will march on him from the west while my lord father advances from the east. tell him that he stands alone, without hope of allies. stannis and renly baratheon war against each other, and the prince of dome has consented to wed his son trystane to the princess myrcella. murmurs of delight and consternation alike arose from the gallery and the back of the hall. as to this of my cousins, tyrion went on, we offer harrion karstark and ser wylis manderly for willem lannister, and lord cerwyn and ser donnel locke for your brother tion. tell stark that two lannisters are worth four northmen in any season. he waited for the laughter to die. his father's bones he shall have, as a gesture of joffrey's good faith. lord stark asked for his sisters and his father's sword as well, ser cleos reminded him. ser ilyn payne stood mute, the hilt of eddard stark's greatsword rising over one shoulder. ice, said tyrion. he'll have that when he makes his peace with us, not before. as you say. and his sisters? tyrion glanced toward sansa, and felt a stab of pity as he said, until such time as he frees my brother jaime, unharmed, they shall remain here as hostages. how well they are treated depends on him. and if the gods are good, bywater will find arya alive, before robb learns she's gone missing. i shall bring him your message, my lord. tyrion plucked at one of the twisted blades that sprang from the arm of the throne. and now the thrust. vylarr, he called. my lord. the men stark sent are sufficient to protect lord eddard's bones, but a lannister should have a lannister escort, tyrion declared. ser cleos is the queen's cousin, and mine. we shall sleep more easily if you would see him safely back to riverrun. as you command. how many men should i take? why, all of them. vylarr stood like a man made of stone. it was grand maester pycelle who rose, gasping, my lord hand, that cannot... your father, lord tywin himself, he sent these good men to our city to protect queen cersei and her children... the kingsguard and the city watch protect them well enough. the gods speed you on your way, vylarr. at the council table varys smiled knowingly, littlefinger sat feigning boredom, and pycelle gaped like a fish, pale and confused. a herald stepped forward. if any man has other matters to set before the king's hand, let him speak now or go forth and hold his silence. i will be heard. a slender man all in black pushed his way between the redwyne twins. ser alliser! tyrion exclaimed. why, i had no notion that you'd come to court. you should have sent me word. i have, as well you know. thorne was as prickly as his name, a spare, sharp-featured man of fifty, hard-eyed and hard-handed, his black hair streaked with grey. i have been shunned, ignored, and left to wait like some baseborn servant. truly? bronn, this was not well done. ser alliser and i are old friends. we walked the wall together. sweet ser alliser, murmured varys, you must not think too harshly of us. so many seek our joffrey's grace, in these troubled and tumultuous times. more troubled than you know, eunuch. to his face we call him lord eunuch, quipped littlefinger. how may we be of help to you, good brother? grand maester pycelle asked in soothing tones. the lord commander sent me to his grace the king, thorne answered. the matter is too grave to be left to servants. the king is playing with his new crossbow, tyrion said. ridding himself of jo ffrey had required only an ungainly myrish crossbow that threw three quarrels at a time, and nothing would do but that he try it at once. you can speak to servants or hold your silence. as you will, ser alliser said, displeasure in every word. i am sent to tell you that we found two rangers, long missing. they were dead, yet when we brought the corpses back to the wall they rose again in the night. one slew ser jaremy rykker, while the second tried to murder the lord commander. distantly, tyrion heard someone snigger. does he mean to mock me with this folly? he shifted uneasily and glanced down at varys, littlefinger, and pycelle, wondering if one of them had a role in this. a dwarf enjoyed at best a tenuous hold on dignity. once the court and kingdom started to laugh at him, he was doomed. and yet... and yet... tyrion remembered a cold night under the stars when he'd stood beside the boy jon snow and a great white wolf atop the wall at the end of the world, gazing out at the trackless dark beyond. he had felt-what? something, to be sure, a dread that had cut like that frigid northern wind. a wolf had howled off in the night, and the sound had sent a shiver through him. don't be a fool, he told himself. a wolf, a wind, a dark forest, it meant nothing. and yet... he had come to have a liking for old jeor mormont during his time at castle black. i trust that the old bear survived this attack? he did. and that your brothers killed these, ah, dead men? we did... you're certain that they are dead this time? tyrion asked mildly. when bronn choked on a snort of laughter, he knew how he must proceed. truly truly dead? they were dead the first time, ser alliser snapped. pale and cold, with black hands and feet. i brought jared's hand, torn from his corpse by the bastard's wolf. littlefinger stirred. and where is this charming token? ser alliser frowned uncomfortably, it... rotted to pieces while i waited, unheard. there's naught left to show but bones. titters echoed through the hall. lord baelish, tyrion called down to littlefinger, buy our brave ser alliser a hundred spades to take back to the wall with him. spades? ser alliser narrowed his eyes suspiciously. if you bury your dead, they won't come walking, tyrion told him, and the court laughed openly. spades will end your troubles, with some strong backs to wield them. ser jacelyn, see that the good brother has his pick of the city dungeons. ser jacelyn bywater said, as you will, my lord, but the cells are near empty. yoren took all the likely men. arrest some more, then, tyrion told him. or spread the word that there's bread and turnips on the wall, and they'll go of their own accord. the city had too many mouths to feed, and the night's watch a perpetual need of men. at tyrion's signal, the herald cried an end, and the hall began to empty. ser alliser thorne was not so easily dismissed. he was waiting at the foot of the iron throne when tyrion descended. do you think i sailed all the way from eastwatch-by-the-sea to be mocked by the likes of you? he fumed, blocking the way. this is no jape. i saw it with my own eyes. i tell you, the dead walk. you should try to kill them more thoroughly. tyrion pushed past. ser alliser made to grab his sleeve, but preston greenfield thrust him back. no closer, ser. thorne knew better than to challenge a knight of the kingsguard. you are a fool, imp, he shouted at tyrion's back. the dwarf turned to face him. me? truly? then why were they laughing at you, i wonder? he smiled wanly. you came for men, did you not? the cold winds are rising. the wall must be held. and to hold it you need men, which i've given you... as you might have noted, if your ears heard anything but insults. take them, thank me, and begone before i'm forced to take a crab fork to you again. give my warm regards to lord mormont... and to jon snow as well. bronn seized ser alliser by the elbow and marched him forcefully from the hall. grand maester pycelle had already scuttled off, but varys and littlefinger had watched it all, start to finish. i grow ever more admiring of you, my lord, confessed the eunuch. you appease the stark boy with his father's bones and strip your sister of her protectors in one swift stroke. you give that black brother the men he seeks, rid the city of some hungry mouths, yet make it all seem mockery so none may say that the dwarf fears snarks and grumkins. oh, deftly done. littlefinger stroked his beard. do you truly mean to send away all your guards, lannister? no, i mean to send away all my sister's guards. the queen will never allow that. oh, i think she may. i am her brother, and when you've known me longer, you'll learn that i mean everything i say. even the lies? especially the lies. lord petyr, i sense that you are unhappy with me. i love you as much as i ever have, my lord. though i do not relish being played for a fool. if myrcella weds trystane martell, she can scarcely wed robert arryn, can she? not without causing a great scandal, he admitted. i regret my little ruse, lord petyr, but when we spoke, i could not know the dornishmen would accept my offer. littlefinger was not appeased. i do not like being lied to, my lord. leave me out of your next deception. only if you'll do the same for me, tyrion thought, glancing at the dagger sheathed at littlefinger's hip. if i have given offense, i am deeply sorry. all men know how much we love you, my lord. and how much we need you. try and remember that. with that littlefinger left them. walk with me, varys, said tyrion. they left through the king's door behind the throne, the eunuch's slippers whisking lightly over the stone. lord baelish has the truth of it, you know. the queen will never permit you to send away her guard. she will. you'll see to that. a smile flickered across varys's plump lips. will i? oh, for a certainty. you'll tell her it is part of my scheme to free jaime. varys stroked a powdered cheek. this would doubtless involve the four men your man bronn searched for so diligently in all the low places of king's landing. a thief, a poisoner, a mummer, and a murderer. put them in crimson cloaks and lion helms, they'll look no different from any other guardsmen. i searched for some time for a ruse that might get them into riverrun before i thought to hide them in plain sight. they'll ride in by the main gate, flying lannister banners and escorting lord eddard's bones. he smiled crookedly. four men alone would be watched vigilantly. four among a hundred can lose themselves. so i must send the true guardsmen as well as the false... as you'll tell my sister. and for the sake of her beloved brother, she will consent, despite her misgivings. they made their way down a deserted colonnade. still, the loss of her red cloaks will surely make her uneasy. i like her uneasy, said tyrion. ser cleos frey left that very afternoon, escorted by vylarr and a hundred red-cloaked lannister guardsmen. the men robb stark had sent joined them at the king's gate for the long ride west. tyrion found timett dicing with his burned men in the barracks. come to my solar at midnight. timett gave him a hard one-eyed stare, a curt nod. he was not one for long speeches. that night he feasted with the stone crows and moon brothers in the small hall, though he shunned the wine for once. he wanted all his wits about him. shagga, what moon is this? shagga's frown was a fierce thing. black, i think. in the west, they call that a traitor's moon. try not to get too drunk tonight, and see that your axe is sharp. a stone crow's axe is always sharp, and shagga's axes are sharpest of all. once i cut off a man's head, but he did not know it until he tried to brush his hair. then it fell off. is that why you never brush yours? the stone crows roared and stamped their feet, shagga hooting loudest of all. by midnight, the castle was silent and dark. doubtless a few gold cloaks on the walls spied them leaving the tower of the hand, but no one raised a voice. he was the hand of the king, and where he went was his own affair. the thin wooden door split with a thunderous crack beneath the heel of shagga's boot. pieces went flying inward, and tyrion heard a woman's gasp of fear. shagga hacked the door apart with three great blows of his axe and kicked his way through the ruins. timett followed, and then tyrion, stepping gingerly over the splinters. the fire had burned down a few glowing embers, and shadows lay thick across the bedchamber. when timett ripped the heavy curtains off the bed, the naked serving girl stared up with wide white eyes. please, my lords, she pleaded, don't hurt me. she cringed away from shagga, flushed and fearful, trying to cover her charms with her hands and coming up a hand short. go, tyrion told her. it's not you we want. shagga wants this woman. shagga wants every whore in this city of whores, complained timett son of timett. yes, shagga said, unabashed. shagga would give her a strong child. if she wants a strong child, she'll know whom to seek, tyrion said. timett, see her out... gently, if you would. the burned man pulled the girl from the bed and half marched, half dragged her across the chamber. shagga watched them go, mournful as a puppy. the girl stumbled over the shattered door and out into the hall, helped along by a firm shove from timett. above their heads, the ravens were screeching. tyrion dragged the soft blanket off the bed, uncovering grand maester pycelle beneath. tell me, does the citadel approve of you bedding the serving wenches, maester? the old man was as naked as the girl, though he made a markedly less attractive sight. for once, his heavy-lidded eyes were open wide. w-what is the meaning of this? i am an old man, your loyal servant... tyrion hoisted himself onto the bed. so loyal that you sent only one of my letters to doran martell. the other you gave to my sister. n-no, squealed pycelle. no, a falsehood, i swear it, it was not me. varys, it was varys, the spider, i warned you- do all maesters lie so poorly? i told varys that i was giving prince doran my nephew tommen to foster. i told littlefinger that i planned to wed myrcella to lord robert of the eyrie. i told no one that i had offered myrcella to the dornish... that truth was only in the letter i entrusted to you. pycelle clutched for a corner of the blanket. birds are lost, messages stolen or sold... it was varys, there are things i might tell you of that eunuch that would chill your blood. my lady prefers my blood hot. make no mistake, for every secret the eunuch whispers in your ear, he holds seven back. and littlefinger, that one... i know all about lord petyr. he's almost as untrustworthy as you. shagga, cut off his manhood and feed it to the goats. shagga hefted the huge double-bladed axe. there are no goats, halfman. make do. roaring, shagga leapt forward. pycelle shrieked and wet the bed, urine spraying in all directions as he tried to scramble back out of reach. the wildling caught him by the end of his billowy white beard and hacked off three-quarters of it with a single slash of the axe. timett, do you suppose our friend will be more forthcoming without those whiskers to hide behind? tyrion used a bit of the sheet to wipe the piss off his boots. he will tell the truth soon. darkness pooled in the empty pit of timett's burned eye. i can smell the stink of his fear. shagga tossed a handful of hair down to the rushes, and seized what beard was left. hold still, maester, urged tyrion. when shagga gets angry, his hands shake. shagga's hands never shake, the huge man said indignantly, pressing the great crescent blade under pycelle's quivering chin and sawing through another tangle of beard. how long have you been spying for my sister? tyrion asked. pycelle's breathing was rapid and shallow. all i did, i did for house lannister. a sheen of sweat covered the broad dome of the old man's brow, and wisps of white hair clung to his wrinkled skin. always... for years... your lord father, ask him, i was ever his true servant... 'twas i who bid aerys open his gates... that took tyrion by surprise. he had been no more than an ugly boy at casterly rock when the city fell. so the sack of king's landing was your work as well? for the realm! once rhaegar died, the war was done. aerys was mad, viserys too young, prince aegon a babe at the breast, but the realm needed a king... i prayed it should be your good father, but robert was too strong, and lord stark moved too swiftly... how many have you betrayed, i wonder? aerys, eddard stark, me... king robert as well? lord arryn, prince rhaegar? where does it begin, pycelle? he knew where it ended. the axe scratched at the apple of pycelle's throat and stroked the soft wobbly skin under his jaw, scraping away the last hairs. you... were not here, he gasped when the blade moved upward to his cheeks. robert... his wounds... if you had seen them, smelled them, you would have no doubt... oh, i know the boar did your work for you... but if he'd left the job half done, doubtless you would have finished it. he was a wretched king... vain, drunken, lecherous... he would have set your sister aside, his own queen... please... renly was plotting to bring the highgarden maid to court, to entice his brother... it is the gods' own truth... and what was lord arryn plotting? he knew, pycelle said. about... about... i know what he knew about, snapped tyrion, who was not anxious for shagga and timett to know as well. he was sending his wife back to the eyrie, and his son to be fostered on dragonstone... he meant to act. so you poisoned him first. no. pycelle struggled feebly. shagga growled and grabbed his head. the clansman's hand was so big he could have crushed the maester's skull like an eggshell had he squeezed. tyrion tsked at him. i saw the tears of lys among your potions. and you sent away lord arryn's own maester and tended him yourself, so you could make certain that he died. a falsehood! shave him closer, tyrion suggested. the throat again. the axe swept back down, rasping over the skin. a thin film of spit bubbled on pycelle's lips as his mouth trembled. i tried to save lord arryn. i vow- careful now, shagga, you've cut him. shagga growled. dolf fathered warriors, not barbers. when he felt the blood trickling down his neck and onto his chest, the old man shuddered, and the last strength went out of him. he looked shrunken, both smaller and frailer than he had been when they burst in on him. yes, he wimpered, yes, colemon was purging, so i sent him away. the queen needed lord arryn dead, she did not say so, could not, varys was listening, always listening, but when i looked at her i knew. it was not me who gave him the poison, though, i swear it. the old man wept. varys will tell you, it was the boy, his squire, hugh he was called, he must surely have done it, ask your sister, ask her. tyrion was disgusted. bind him and take him away, he commanded. throw him down in one of the black cells. they dragged him out the splintered door. lannister, he moaned, all i've done has been for lannister... when he was gone, tyrion made a leisurely search of the quarters and collected a few more small jars from his shelves. the ravens muttered above his head as he worked, a strangely peaceful noise. he would need to find someone to tend the birds until the citadel sent a man to replace pycelle. he was the one i'd hoped to trust. varys and littlefinger were no more loyal, he suspected... only more subtle, and thus more dangerous. perhaps his father's way would have been best: summon ilyn payne, mount three heads above the gates, and have done. and wouldn't that be a pretty sight, he thought. the rushes were scratchy under the soles of his bare feet. my cousin chooses a queer hour to come visiting, tyrion told a sleep-befuddled podrick payne, who'd doubtless expected to be well roasted for waking him. see him to my solar and tell him i'll be down shortly. it was well past midnight, he judged from the black outside the window. does lancel think to find me drowsy and slow of wit at this hour? he wondered. no, lancel scarce thinks at all, this is cersei's doing. his sister would be disappointed. even abed, he worked well into the morning- reading by the flickering light of a candle, scrutinizing the reports of varys's whisperers, and poring over littlefinger's books of accounts until the columns blurred and his eyes ached. he splashed some tepid water on his face from the basin beside his bed and took his time squatting in the garderobe, the night air cold on his bare skin. ser lancel was sixteen, and not known for his patience. let him wait, and grow more anxious in the waiting. when his bowels were empty, tyrion slipped on a bedrobe and roughed his thin flaxen hair with his fingers, all the more to look as if he had wakened from sleep. lancel was pacing before the ashes of the hearth, garbed in slashed red velvet with black silk undersleeves, a jeweled dagger and a gilded scabbard hanging from his swordbelt. cousin, tyrion greeted him. your visits are too few. to what do i owe this undeserved pleasure? her grace the queen regent has sent me to command you to release grand maester pycelle. ser lancel showed tyrion a crimson ribbon, bearing cersei's lion seal impressed in golden wax. here is her warrant. so it is. tyrion waved it away. i hope my sister is not overtaxing her strength, so soon after her illness, it would be a great pity if she were to suffer a relapse. her grace is quite recovered, ser lancel said curtly. music to my ears. though not a tune i'm fond of. i should have given her a larger dose. tyrion had hoped for a few more days without cersei's interference, but he was not too terribly surprised by her return to health. she was jaime's twin, after all. he made himself smile pleasantly. pod, build us a fire, the air is too chilly for my taste. will you take a cup with me, lancel? i find that mulled wine helps me sleep. i need no help sleeping, ser lancel said. i am come at her grace's behest, not to drink with you, imp. knighthood had made the boy bolder, tyrion reflected-that, and the sorry part he had played in murdering king robert. wine does have its dangers. he smiled as he poured. as to grand maester pycelle... if my sweet sister is so concerned for him, i would have thought she'd come herself. instead she sends you. what am i to make of that? make of it what you will, so long as you release your prisoner. the grand maester is a staunch friend to the queen regent, and under her personal protection. a hint of a sneer played about the lad's lips; he was enjoying this. he takes his lessons from cersei. her grace will never consent to this outrage. she reminds you that she is joffrey's regent. as i am joffrey's hand. the hand serves, the young knight informed him airily. the regent rules until the king is of age. perhaps you ought write that down so i'll remember it better. the fire was crackling merrily. you may leave us, pod, tyrion told his squire. only when the boy was gone did he turn back to lancel. there is more? yes. her grace bids me inform you that ser jacelyn bywater defied a command issued in the king's own name. which means that cersei has already ordered bywater to release pycelle, and been rebuffed. i see. she insists that the man be removed from his office and placed under arrest for treason. i warn you- he set aside his wine cup. i'll hear no warnings from you, boy. ser, lancel said stiffly. he touched his sword, perhaps to remind tyrion that he wore one. have a care how you speak to me, imp. doubtless he meant to sound threatening, but that absurd wisp of a mustache ruined the effect. oh, unhand your sword. one cry from me and shagga will burst in and kill you. with an axe, not a wineskin. lancel reddened; was he such a fool as to believe his part in robert's death had gone unnoted? i am a knight- so i've noted. tell me-did cersei have you knighted before or after she took you into her bed? the flicker in lancel' s green eyes was all the admission tyrion needed. so varys told it true. well, no one can ever claim that my sister does not love her family. what, nothing to say? no more warnings for me, ser? you will withdraw these filthy accusations or- please. have you given any thought to what joffrey will do when i tell him you murdered his father to bed his mother? it was not like that! lancel protested, horrified. no? what was it like, pray? the queen gave me the strongwine! your own father lord tywin, when i was named the king's squire, he told me to obey her in everything. did he tell you to fuck her too? look at him. not quite so tall, his features not so fine, and his hair is sand instead of spun gold, yet still... even a poor copy of jaime is sweeter than an empty bed, i suppose. no, i thought not. i never meant... i only did as i was bid, i... ... hated every instant of it, is that what you would have me believe? a high place at court, knighthood, my sister's legs opening for you at night, oh, yes, it must have been terrible for you. tyrion pushed himself to his feet. wait here. his grace will want to hear this. the defiance went from lancel all at once. the young knight fell to his knees a frightened boy. mercy, my lord, i beg you. save it for joffrey. he likes a good beg. my lord, it was your sister's bidding, the queen, as you said, but his grace... he'd never understand... would you have me keep the truth from the king? for my father's sake! i'll leave the city, it will be as if it never happened! i swear, i will end it... it was hard not to laugh. i think not. now the lad looked lost. my lord? you heard me. my father told you to obey my sister? very well, obey her. stay close to her side, keep her trust, pleasure her as often as she requires it. no one need ever know... so long as you keep faith with me. i want to know what cersei is doing. where she goes, who she sees, what they talk of, what plans she is hatching. all. and you will be the one to tell me, won't you? yes, my lord. lancel spoke without a moment's hesitation. tyrion liked that. i will. i swear it. as you command. rise. tyrion filled the second cup and pressed it on him. drink to our understanding. i promise, there are no boars in the castle that i know of. lancel lifted the cup and drank, albeit stiffly. smile, cousin. my sister is a beautiful woman, and it's all for the good of the realm. you could do well out of this. knighthood is nothing. if you're clever, you'll have a lordship from me before you're done. tyrion swirled the wine in his cup. we want cersei to have every faith in you. go back and tell her i beg her forgiveness. tell her that you frightened me, that i want no conflict between us, that henceforth i shall do nothing without her consent. but... her demands... oh, i'll give her pycelle. you will? lancel seemed astonished. tyrion smiled. i'll release him on the morrow. i could swear that i hadn't harmed a hair on his head, but it wouldn't be strictly true. in any case, he's well enough, though i won't vouch for his vigor. the black cells are not a healthy place for a man his age. cersei can keep him as a pet or send him to the wall, i don't care which, but i won't have him on the council.  and ser jacelyn? tell my sister you believe you can win him away from me, given time. that ought to content her for a while. as you say. lancel finished his wine. one last thing. with king robert dead, it would be most embarrassing should his grieving widow suddenly grow great with child. my lord, i... we... the queen has commanded me not to his ears had turned lannister crimson. i spill my seed on her belly, my lord. a lovely belly, i have no doubt. moisten it as often as you wish... but see that your dew falls nowhere else. i want no more nephews, is that clear? ser lancel made a stiff bow and took his leave. tyrion allowed himself a moment to feel sorry for the boy. another fool, and a weakling as well, but he does not deserve what cersei and i are doing to him. it was a kindness that his uncle kevan had two other sons; this one was unlikely to live out the year. cersei would have him killed out of hand if she learned he was betraying her, and if by some grace of the gods she did not, lancel would never survive the day jaime lannister returned to king's landing. the only question would be whether jaime cut him down in a jealous rage, or cersei murdered him first to keep jaime from finding out. tyrion' s silver was on cersei. a restlessness was on him, and tyrion knew full well he would not get back to sleep tonight. not here, in any case. he found podrick payne asleep in a chair outside the door of the solar, and shook him by the shoulder. summon bronn, and then run down to the stables and have two horses saddled. the squire's eyes were cloudy with sleep. horses. those big brown animals that love apples, i'm sure you've seen them. four legs and a tail. but bronn first. the sellsword was not long in appearing. who pissed in your soup? he demanded. cersei, as ever. you'd think i'd be used to the taste by now, but never mind. my gentle sister seems to have mistaken me for ned stark. i hear he was taller. not after joff took off his head. you ought to have dressed more warmly, the night is chill. are we going somewhere? are all sellswords as clever as you? the city streets were dangerous, but with bronn beside him tyrion felt safe enough. the guards let him out a postern gate in the north wall, and they rode down shadowblack lane to the foot of aegon's high hill, and thence onto pigrun alley, past rows of shuttered windows and tall timber-and-stone buildings whose upper stories leaned out so far over the street they almost kissed. the moon seemed to follow them as they went, playing peek-and-sneak among the chimneys. they encountered no one but a lone old crone, carrying a dead cat by the tail. she gave them a fearful look, as if she were afraid they might try to steal her dinner, and slunk off into the shadows without a word. tyrion reflected on the men who had been hand before him, who had proved no match for his sister's wiles. how could they be? men like that... too honest to live, too noble to shit, cersei devours such fools every morning when she breaks her fast. the only way to defeat my sister is to play her own game, and that was something the lords stark and arryn would never do. small wonder that both of them were dead, while tyrion lannister had never felt more alive. his stunted legs might make him a comic grotesque at a harvest ball, but this dance he knew. despite the hour, the brothel was crowded. chataya greeted them pleasantly and escorted them to the common room. bronn went upstairs with a dark-eyed girl from dome, but alayaya was busy entertaining. she will be so pleased to know you've come, said chataya. i will see that the turret room is made ready for you. will my lord take a cup of wine while he waits? i will, he said. the wine was poor stuff compared to the vintages from the arbor the house normally served. you must forgive us, my lord, chataya said. i cannot find good wine at any price of late. you are not alone in that, i fear. chataya commiserated with him a moment, then excused herself and glided off. a handsome woman, tyrion reflected as he watched her go. he had seldom seen such elegance and dignity in a whore. though to be sure, she saw herself more as a kind of priestess. perhaps that is the secret. it is not what we do, so much as why we do it. somehow that thought comforted him. a few of the other patrons were giving him sideways looks. the last time he ventured out, a man had spit on him... well, had tried to. instead he'd spit on bronn, and in future would do his spitting without teeth. is milord feeling unlove? dancy slid into his lap and nibbled at his ear. i have a cure for that. smiling, tyrion shook his head. you are too beautiful for words, sweetling, but i've grown fond of alayaya's remedy. you've never tried mine. milord never chooses anyone but'yaya. she's good but i'm better, don't you want to see? next time, perhaps. tyrion had no doubt that dancy would be a lively handful. she was pug- nosed and bouncy, with freckles and a mane of thick red hair that tumbled down past her waist. but he had shae waiting for him at the manse. giggling, she put her hand between his thighs and squeezed him through his breeches. i don't think he wants to wait till next time, she announced. he wants to come out and count all my freckles, i think. dancy. alayaya stood in the doorway, dark and cool in gauzy green silk. his lordship is come to visit me. tyrion gently disentangled himself from the other girl and stood. dancy did not seem to mind. next time, she reminded him. she put a finger in her mouth and sucked it. as the black-skinned girl led him up the stairs, she said, poor dancy. she has a fortnight to get my lord to choose her. elsewise she loses her black pearls to marei. marei was a cool, pale, delicate girl tyrion had noticed once or twice. green eyes and porcelain skin, long straight silvery hair, very lovely, but too solemn by half. id hate to have the poor child lose her pearls on account of me. then take her upstairs next time. maybe i will. she smiled. i think not, my lord. she's right, tyrion thought, i won't. shae may be only a whore, but i am faithful to her after my fashion. in the turret room, as he opened the door of the wardrobe, he looked at alayaya curiously. what do you do while i'm gone? she raised her arms and stretched like some sleek black cat. sleep. i am much better rested since you began to visit us, my lord. and marei is teaching us to read, perhaps soon i will be able to pass the time with a book. sleep is good, he said. and books are better. he gave her a quick kiss on the cheek. then it was down the shaft and through the tunnel. as he left the stable on his piebald gelding, tyrion heard the sound of music drifting over the rooftops. it was pleasant to think that men still sang, even in the midst of butchery and famine. remembered notes filled his head, and for a moment he could almost hear tysha as she'd sung to him half a lifetime ago. he reined up to listen. the tune was wrong, the words too faint to hear. a different song then, and why not? his sweet innocent tysha had been a lie start to finish, only a whore his brother jaime had hired to make him a man. i'm free of tysha now, he thought. she's haunted me half my life, but i don't need her anymore, no more than i need alayaya or dancy or marei, or the hundreds like them i've bedded with over the years. i have shae now shae. the gates of the manse were closed and barred. tyrion pounded until the ornate bronze eye clacked open. it's me. the man who admitted him was one of varys's prettier finds, a braavosi daggerman with a harelip and a lazy eye. tyrion had wanted no handsome young guardsmen loitering about shae day after day. find me old, ugly, scarred men, preferably impotent, he had told the eunuch. men who prefer boys. or men who prefer sheep, for that matter. varys had not managed to come up with any sheeplovers, but he did find a eunuch strangler and a pair of foulsmelling ibbenese who were as fond of axes as they were of each other. the others were as choice a lot of mercenaries as ever graced a dungeon, each uglier than the last. when varys had paraded them before him, tyrion had been afraid he'd gone too far, but shae had never uttered a word of complaint. and why would she? she has never complained of me, and i'm more hideous than all her guards together. perhaps she does not even see ugliness. even so, tyrion would sooner have used some of his mountain clansmen to guard the manse; chella's black ears perhaps, or the moon brothers. he had more faith in their iron loyalties and sense of honor than in the greed of sellswords. the risk was too great, however. all king's landing knew the wildlings were his. if he sent the black ears here, it would only be a matter of time until the whole city knew the king's hand was keeping a concubine. one of the ibbenese took his horse. have you woken her? tyrion asked him. no, m'lord. good. the fire in the bedchamber had burned down to embers, but the room was still warm. shae had kicked off her blankets and sheets as she slept. she lay nude atop the featherbed, the soft curves of her young body limned in the faint glow from the hearth. tyrion stood in the door and drank in the sight of her. younger than marei, sweeter than dancy, more beautiful than alayaya, she's all i need and more. how could a whore look so clean and sweet and innocent, he wondered? he had not intended to disturb her, but the sight of her was enough to make him hard. he let his garments fall to the floor, then crawled onto the bed and gently pushed her legs apart and kissed her between the thighs. shae murmured in her sleep. he kissed her again, and licked at her secret sweetness, on and on until his beard and her cunt were both soaked. when she gave a soft moan and shuddered, he climbed up and thrust himself inside her and exploded almost at once. her eyes were open. she smiled and stroked his head and whispered, i just had the sweetest dream, m'lord. tyrion nipped at her small hard nipple and nestled his head on her shoulder. he did not pull out of her; would that he never had to pull out of her. this is no dream, he promised her. it is real, all of it, he thought, the wars, the intrigues, the great bloody game, and me in the center of it... me, the dwarf, the monster, the one they scorned and laughed at, but now i hold it all, the power, the city, the girl. this was what i was made for, and gods forgive me, but i do love it... and her. and her. varys stood over the brazier, warming his soft hands. it would appear renly was murdered most fearfully in the very midst of his army. his throat was opened from ear to ear by a blade that passed through steel and bone as if they were soft cheese. murdered by whose hand? cersei demanded. have you ever considered that too many answers are the same as no answer at all? my informers are not always as highly placed as we might like. when a king dies, fancies sprout like mushrooms in the dark. a groom says that renly was slain by a knight of his own rainbow guard. a washerwoman claims stannis stole through the heart of his brother's army with his magic sword. several men-at-arms believe a woman did the fell deed, but cannot agree on which woman. a maid that renly had spurned, claims one. a camp follower brought in to serve his pleasure on the eve of battle, says a second. the third ventures that it might have been the lady catelyn stark. the queen was not pleased. must you waste our time with every rumor the fools care to tell? you pay me well for these rumors, my gracious queen. we pay you for the truth, lord varys. remember that, or this small council may grow smaller still. varys tittered nervously. you and your noble brother will leave his grace with no council at all if you continue. i daresay, the realm could survive a few less councillors, said littlefinger with a smile. dear dear petyr, said varys, are you not concerned that yours might be the next name on the hand's little list? before you, varys? i should never dream of it. mayhaps we will be brothers on the wall together, you and i varys giggled again. sooner than you'd like, if the next words out of your mouth are not something useful, eunuch. from the look of her eyes, cersei was prepared to castrate varys all over again. might this be some ruse? asked littlefinger. if so, it is a ruse of surpassing cleverness, said varys. it has certainly hoodwinked me. tyrion had heard enough. jo ff will be so disappointed, he said. he was saving such a nice spike for renly' s head. but whoever did the deed, we must assume stannis was behind it. the gain is clearly his. he did not like this news; he had counted on the brothers baratheon decimating each other in bloody battle. he could feel his elbow throbbing where the morningstar had laid it open. it did that sometimes in the damp. he squeezed it uselessly in his hand and asked, what of renly' s host? the greater part of his foot remains at bitterbridge. varys abandoned the brazier to take his seat at the table. most of the lords who rode with lord renly to storm's end have gone over banner-and-blade to stannis, with all their chivalry. led by the florents, i'd wager, said littlefinger. varys gave him a simpering smile. you would win, my lord. lord alester was indeed the first to bend the knee. many others followed. many, tyrion said pointedly, but not all? not all, agreed the eunuch. not loras tyrell, nor randyll tarly, nor mathis rowan. and storm's end itself has not yielded. ser cortnay penrose holds the castle in renly's name, and will not believe his liege is dead. he demands to see the mortal remains before he opens his gates, but it seems that renly's corpse has unaccountably vanished. carried away, most likely. a fifth of renly's knights departed with ser loras rather than bend the knee to stannis. it's said the knight of flowers went mad when he saw his king's body, and slew three of renly's guards in his wrath, among them emmon cuy and robar royce. a pity he stopped at three, thought tyrion. ser loras is likely making for bitterbridge, varys went on. his sister is there, renly's queen, as well as a great many soldiers who suddenly find themselves kingless. which side will they take now? a ticklish question. many serve the lords who remained at storm's end, and those lords now belong to stannis. tyrion leaned forward. there is a chance here, it seems to me. win loras tyrell to our cause and lord mace tyrell and his bannermen might join us as well. they may have sworn their swords to stannis for the moment, yet they cannot love the man, or they would have been his from the start. is their love for us any greater? asked cersei. scarcely, said tyrion. they loved renly, clearly, but renly is slain. perhaps we can give them good and sufficient reasons to prefer joffrey to stannis... if we move quickly. what sort of reasons do you mean to give them? gold reasons, littlefinger suggested at once. varys made a tsking sound. sweet petyr, surely you do not mean to suggest that these puissant lords and noble knights could be bought like so many chickens in the market. have you been to our markets of late, lord varys? asked littlefinger. you'd find it easier to buy a lord than a chicken, i daresay. of course, lords cluck prouder than chickens, and take it ill if you offer them coin like a tradesman, but they are seldom adverse to taking gifts... honors, lands, castles... bribes might sway some of the lesser lords, tyrion said, but never highgarden. true, littlefinger admitted. the knight of flowers is the key there. mace tyrell has two older sons, but loras has always been his favorite. win him, and highgarden will be yours. yes, tyrion thought. it seems to me we should take a lesson from the late lord renly. we can win the tyrell alliance as he did. with a marriage. varys understood the quickest. you think to wed king joffrey to margaery tyrell. i do. renly's young queen was no more than fifteen, sixteen, he seemed to recall... older than joffrey, but a few years were nothing, it was so neat and sweet he could taste it. joffrey is betrothed to sansa stark, cersei objected. marriage contracts can be broken. what advantage is there in wedding the king to the daughter of a dead traitor? littlefinger spoke up. you might point out to his grace that the tyrells are much wealthier than the starks, and that margaery is said to be lovely... and beddable besides. yes, said tyrion, jo ff ought to like that well enough. my son is too young to care about such things. you think so? asked tyrion. he's thirteen, cersei. the same age at which i married. you shamed us all with that sorry episode. joffrey is made of finer stuff. so fine that he had ser boros rip off sansa's gown. he was angry with the girl. he was angry with that cook's boy who spilled the soup last night as well, but he didn't strip him naked. this was not a matter of some spilled soup- no, it was a matter of some pretty teats. after that business in the yard, tyrion had spoken with varys about how they might arrange for joffrey to visit chataya's. a taste of honey might sweeten the boy, he hoped. he might even be grateful, gods forbid, and tyrion could do with a shade more gratitude from his sovereign. it would need to be done secretly, of course. the tricky bit would be parting him from the hound. the dog is never far from his master's heels, he'd observed to varys, but all men sleep. and some gamble and whore and visit winesinks as well. the hound does all these things, if that is your question. no, said tyrion. my question is when. varys had laid a finger on his cheek, smiling enigmatically. my lord, a suspicious man might think you wished to find a time when sandor clegane was not protecting king joffrey, the better to do the boy some harm. surely you know me better than that, lord varys, tyrion said. why, all i want is for joffrey to love me. the eunuch had promised to look into the matter. the war made its own demands, though; joffrey' s initiation into manhood would need to wait. doubtless you know your son better than i do, he made himself tell cersei, but regardless, there's still much to be said for a tyrell marriage. it may be the only way that joffrey lives long enough to reach his wedding night. littlefinger agreed. the stark girl brings joffrey nothing but her body, sweet as that may be. margaery tyrell brings fifty thousand swords and all the strength of highgarden. indeed. varys laid a soft hand on the queen's sleeve. you have a mother's heart, and i know his grace loves his little sweetling. yet kings must learn to put the needs of the realm before their own desires. i say this offer must be made. the queen pulled free of the eunuch's touch. you would not speak so if you were women. say what you will, my lords, but joffrey is too proud to settle for renly's leavings. he will never consent. tyrion shrugged. when the king comes of age in three years, he may give or withhold his consent as he pleases. until then, you are his regent and i am his hand, and he will marry whomever we tell him to marry. leavings or no. cersei's quiver was empty. make your offer then, but gods save you all if joff does not like this girl. i'm so pleased we can agree, tyrion said. now, which of us shall go to bitterbridge? we must reach ser loras with our offer before his blood can cool. you mean to send one of the council? i can scarcely expect the knight of flowers to treat with bronn or shagga, can i? the tyrells are proud. his sister wasted no time trying to twist the situation to her advantage. ser jacelyn bywater is nobly born. send him. tyrion shook his head. we need someone who can do more than repeat our words and fetch back a reply. our envoy must speak for king and council and settle the matter quickly. the hand speaks with the king's voice. candlelight gleamed green as wildfire in cersei's eyes. if we send you, tyrion, it will be as if joffrey went himself. and who better, you wield words as skillfully as jaime wields a sword. are you that eager to get me out of the city, cersei? you are too kind, sister, but it seems to me that a boy's mother is better fitted to arrange his marriage than any uncle. and you have a gift for winning friends that i could never hope to match. her eyes narrowed. joff needs me at his side. your grace, my lord hand, said littlefinger, the king needs both of you here. let me go in your stead. you? what gain does he see in this? tyrion wondered. i am of the king's council, yet not the king's blood, so i would make a poor hostage. i knew ser loras passing well when he was here at court, and gave him no cause to mislike me. mace tyre 11 bears me no enmity that i know of, and i flatter myself that i am not unskilled in negotiation. he has us. tyrion did not trust petyr baelish, nor did he want the man out of his sight, yet what other choice was left him? it must be littlefinger or tyrion himself, and he knew full well that if he left king's landing for any length of time, all that he had managed to accomplish would be undone. there is fighting between here and bitterbridge, he said cautiously. and you can be past certain that lord stannis will be dispatching his own shepherds to gather in his brother's wayward lambs. i've never been frightened of shepherds. it's the sheep who trouble me. still, i suppose an escort might be in order. i can spare a hundred gold cloaks, tyrion said. five hundred. three hundred. and forty more-twenty knights with as many squires. if i arrive without a knightly tail, the tyrells will think me of small account. that was true enough. agreed. i'll include horror and slobber in my party, and send them on to their lord father afterward. a gesture of goodwill. we need paxter redwyne, he's mace tyrell's oldest friend, and a great power in his own right. and a traitor, the queen said, balking. the arbor would have declared for renly with all the rest, except that redwyne knew full well his whelps would suffer for it. renly is dead, your grace, littlefinger pointed out, and neither stannis nor lord paxter will have forgotten how redwyne galleys closed the sea during the siege of storm's end. restore the twins and perchance we may win redwyne's love. cersei remained unconvinced. the others can keep his love, i want his swords and sails. holding tight to those twins is the best way to make certain that we'll have them. tyrion had the answer. then let us send ser hobber back to the arbor and keep ser horas here. lord paxter ought to be clever enough to riddle out the meaning of that, i should think. the suggestion was carried without protest, but littlefinger was not done. we'll want horses. swift and strong. the fighting will make remounts hard to come by. a goodly supply of gold will also be needed, for those gifts we spoke of earlier. take as much as you require. if the city falls, stannis will steal it all anyway. i'll want my commission in writing. a document that will leave mace tyrell in no doubt as to my authority, granting me full power to treat with him concerning this match and any other arrangements that might be required, and to make binding pledges in the king's name. it should be signed by joffrey and every member of this council, and bear all our seals. tyrion shifted uncomfortably. done. will that be all? i remind you, there's a long road between here and bitterbridge. i'll be riding it before dawn breaks. littlefinger rose. i trust that on my return, the king will see that i am suitably rewarded for my valiant efforts in his cause? varys giggled. joffrey is such a grateful sovereign, i'm certain you will have no cause to complain, my good brave lord. the queen was more direct. what do you want, petyr? littlefinger glanced at tyrion with a sly smile. i shall need to give that some consideration. no doubt i'll think of something. he sketched an airy bow and took his leave, as casual as if he were off to one of his brothels. tyrion glanced out the window. the fog was so thick that he could not even see the curtain wall across the yard. a few dim lights shone indistinct through that greyness. a foul day for travel, he thought. he did not envy petyr baelish. we had best see to drawing up those documents. lord varys, send for parchment and quill. and someone will need to wake joffrey. it was still grey and dark when the meeting finally ended. varys scurried off alone, his soft slippers whisking along the floor. the lannisters lingered a moment by the door. how comes your chain, brother? the queen asked as ser preston fastened a vair-lined cloth-of-silver cloak about her shoulders. link by link, it grows longer. we should thank the gods that ser cortnay penrose is as stubborn as he is. stannis will never march north with storm's end untaken in his rear. tyrion, i know we do not always agree on policy, but it seems to me that i was wrong about you. you are not so big a fool as i imagined. in truth, i realize now that you have been a great help. for that i thank you. you must forgive me if i have spoken to you harshly in the past. must i? he gave her a shrug, a smile. sweet sister, you have said nothing that requires forgiveness. today, you mean? they both laughed... and cersei leaned over and planted a quick, soft kiss on his brow. too astonished for words, tyrion could only watch her stride off down the hall, ser preston at her side. have i lost my wits, or did my sister just kiss me? he asked bronn when she was gone. was it so sweet? it was... unanticipated. cersei had been behaving queerly of late. tyrion found it very unsettling. i am trying to recall the last time she kissed me. i could not have been more than six or seven. jaime had dared her to do it. the woman's finally taken note of your charms. no, tyrion said. no, the woman is hatching something. best find out what, bronn. you know i hate surprises. the girl never wept. young as she was, myrcella baratheon was a princess born. and a lannister, despite her name, tyrion reminded himself, as much jaime's blood as cersei's. to be sure, her smile was a shade tremulous when her brothers took their leave of her on the deck of the seaswift, but the girl knew the proper words to say, and she said them with courage and dignity. when the time came to part, it was prince tommen who cried, and myrcella who gave him comfort. tyrion looked down upon the farewells from the high deck of king robert's hammer, a great war galley of four hundred oars. rob's hammer, as her oarsmen called her, would form the main strength of myrcella's escort. lionstar, bold wind, and lady lyanna would sail with her as well. it made tyrion more than a little uneasy to detach so great a part of their already inadequate fleet, depleted as it was by the loss of all those ships that had sailed with lord stannis to dragonstone and never returned, but cersei would hear of nothing less. perhaps she was wise. if the girl was captured before she reached sunspear, the dornish alliance would fall to pieces. so far doran martell had done no more than call his banners. once myrcella was safe in braavos, he had pledged to move his strength to the high passes, where the threat might make some of the marcher lords rethink their loyalties and give stannis pause about marching north. it was purely a feint, however. the martells would not commit to actual battle unless dome itself was attacked, and stannis was not so great a fool. though some of his bannermen may be, tyrion reflected. i should think on that. he cleared his throat. you know your orders, captain. i do, my lord. we are to follow the coast, staying always in sight of land, until we reach crackclaw point. from there we are to strike out across the narrow sea for braavos. on no account are we to sail within sight of dragonstone. and if our foes should chance upon you nonetheless? if a single ship, we are to run them off or destroy them. if there are more, the bold wind will cleave to the seaswift to protect her while the rest of the fleet does battle. tyrion nodded. if the worst happened, the little seaswift ought to be able to outrun pursuit. a small ship with big sails, she was faster than any warship afloat, or so her captain had claimed. once myrcella reached braavos, she ought to be safe. he was sending ser arys oakheart as her sworn shield, and had engaged the braavosi to bring her the rest of the way to sunspear. even lord stannis would hesitate to wake the anger of the greatest and most powerful of the free cities. traveling from king's landing to dome by way of braavos was scarcely the most direct of routes, but it was the safest... or so he hoped. if lord stannis knew of this sailing, he could not choose a better time to send his fleet against us. tyrion glanced back to where the rush emptied out into blackwater bay and was relieved to see no signs of sails on the wide green horizon. at last report, the baratheon fleet still lay off storm's end, where ser cortnay penrose continued to defy the besiegers in dead renly's name. meanwhile, tyrion's winch towers stood threequarters complete. even now men were hoisting heavy blocks of stone into place, no doubt cursing him for making them work through the festivities. let them curse. another fortnight, stannis, that's all i require. another fortnight and it will be done. tyrion watched his niece kneel before the high septon to receive his blessing on her voyage. sunlight caught in his crystal crown and spilled rainbows across myrcella's upturned face. the noise from the riverside made it impossible to hear the prayers. he hoped the gods had sharper ears. the high septon was as fat as a house, and more pompous and long of wind than even pycelle. enough, old man, make an end to it, tyrion thought irritably. the gods have better things to do than listen to you, and so do i. when at last the droning and mumbling was done, tyrion took his farewell of the captain of rob's hammer. deliver my niece safely to braavos, and there will be a knighthood waiting for you on your return, he promised. as he made his way down the steep plank to the quay, tyrion could feel unkind eyes upon him. the galley rocked gently and the movement underfoot made his waddle worse than ever. i'll wager they'd love to snigger. no one dared, not openly, though he heard mutterings mingled with the creak of wood and rope and the rush of the river around the pilings. they do not love me, he thought. well, small wonder. i'm well fed and ugly, and they are starving. bronn escorted him through the crowd to join his sister and her sons. cersei ignored him, preferring to lavish her smiles on their cousin. he watched her charming lancel with eyes as green as the rope of emeralds around her slim white throat, and smiled a small sly smile to himself. i know your secret, cersei, he thought. his sister had oft called upon the high septon of late, to seek the blessings of the gods in their coming struggle with lord stannis... or so she would have him believe. in truth, after a brief call at the great sept of baelor, cersei would don a plain brown traveler's cloak and steal off to meet a certain hedge knight with the unlikely name of ser osmund kettleblack, and his equally unsavory brothers osney and osfryd. lancel had told him all about them. cersei meant to use the kettleblacks to buy her own force of sellswords. well, let her enjoy her plots. she was much sweeter when she thought she was outwitting him. the kettleblacks would charm her, take her coin, and promise her anything she asked, and why not, when bronn was matching every copper penny, coin for coin? amiable rogues all three, the brothers were in truth much more skilled at deceit than they'd ever been at bloodletting. cersei had managed to buy herself three hollow drums; they would make all the fierce booming sounds she required, but there was nothing inside. it amused tyrion no end. horns blew fanfares as lionstar and lady lyanna pushed out from shore, moving downriver to clear the way for seaswift. a few cheers went up from the crush along the banks, as thin and ragged as the clouds scuttling overhead. myrcella smiled and waved from the deck. behind her stood arys oakheart, his white cloak streaming. the captain ordered lines cast off, and oars pushed the seaswift out into the lusty current of the blackwater rush, where her sails blossomed in the wind-common white sails, as tyrion had insisted, not sheets of lannister crimson. prince tommen sobbed. you mew like a suckling babe, his brother hissed at him. princes aren't supposed to cry. prince aemon the dragonknight cried the day princess naerys wed his brother aegon, sansa stark said, and the twins ser arryk and ser erryk died with tears on their cheeks after each had given the other a mortal wound. be quiet, or i'll have ser meryn give you a mortal wound, joffrey told his betrothed. tyrion glanced at his sister, but cersei was engrossed in something ser balon swann was telling her. can she truly be so blind as to what he is? he wondered. out on the river, bold wind unshipped her oars and glided downstream in the wake of seaswift. last came king robert's hammer, the might of the royal fleet... or at least that portion that had not fled to dragonstone last year with stannis. tyrion had chosen the ships with care, avoiding any whose captains might be of doubtful loyalty, according to varys... but as varys himself was of doubtful loyalty, a certain amount of apprehension remained. i rely too much on varys, he reflected. i need my own informers. not that i'd trust them either. trust would get you killed. he wondered again about littlefinger. there had been no word from petyr baelish since he had ridden off for bitterbridge. that might mean nothing-or everything. even varys could not say. the eunuch had suggested that perhaps littlefinger had met some misfortune on the roads. he might even be slain. tyrion had snorted in derision. if littlefinger is dead, then i'm a giant. more likely, the tyrells were balking at the proposed marriage. tyrion could scarcely blame them. if i were mace tyre 11, 1 would sooner have joffrey' s head on a pike than his cock in my daughter. the little fleet was well out into the bay when cersei indicated that it was time to go. bronn brought tyrion's horse and helped him mount. that was podrick payne's task, but they had left pod back at the red keep. the gaunt sellsword made for a much more reassuring presence than the boy would have. the narrow streets were lined by men of the city watch, holding back the crowd with the shafts of their spears. ser jacelyn bywater went in front, heading a wedge of mounted lancers in black ringmail and golden cloaks. behind him came ser aron santagar and ser balon swann, bearing the king's banners, the lion of lannister and crowned stag of baratheon. king joffrey followed on a tall grey palfrey, a golden crown set upon his golden curls. sansa stark rode a chesnut mare at his side, looking neither right nor left, her thick auburn hair flowing to her shoulders beneath a net of moonstones. two of the kingsguard flanked the couple, the hound on the king's right hand and ser mandon moore to the left of the stark girl. next came tommen, snuffling, with ser preston greenfield in his white armor and cloak, and then cersei, accompanied by ser lancel and protected by meryn trant and boros blount. tyrion fell in with his sister. after them followed the high septon in his litter, and a long tail of other courtiers-ser horas redwyne, lady tanda and her daughter, jalabhar xho, lord gyles rosby, and the rest. a double column of guardsmen brought up the rear. the unshaven and the unwashed stared at the riders with dull resentment from behind the line of spears. i like this not one speck, tyrion thought. bronn had a score of sellswords scattered through the crowd with orders to stop any trouble before it started. perhaps cersei had similarly disposed her kettleblacks. somehow tyrion did not think it would help much. if the fire was too hot, you could hardly keep the pudding from scorching by tossing a handful of raisins in the pot. they crossed fishmonger's square and rode along muddy way before turning onto the narrow, curving hook to begin their climb up aegon's high hill. a few voices raised a cry of joffrey! all hail, all hail! as the young king rode by, but for every man who picked up the shout, a hundred kept their silence. the lannisters moved through a sea of ragged men and hungry women, breasting a tide of sullen eyes, just ahead of him, cersei was laughing at something lancel had said, though he suspected her merriment was feigned. she could not be oblivious to the unrest around them, but his sister always believed in putting on the brave show. halfway along the route, a wailing woman forced her way between two watchmen and ran out into the street in front of the king and his companions, holding the corpse of her dead baby above her head. it was blue and swollen, grotesque, but the real horror was the mother's eyes. joffrey looked for a moment as if he meant to ride her down, but sansa stark leaned over and said something to him. the king fumbled in his purse, and flung the woman a silver stag. the coin bounced off the child and rolled away, under the legs of the gold cloaks and into the crowd, where a dozen men began to fight for it. the mother never once blinked. her skinny arms were trembling from the dead weight of her son. leave her, your grace, cersei called out to the king, she's beyond our help, poor thing. the mother heard her. somehow the queen's voice cut through the woman's ravaged wits. her slack face twisted in loathing. whore! she shrieked. kingslayer's whore! brother fucker! her dead child dropped from her arms like a sack of flour as she pointed at cersei. brotherfucker brotherfucker brotherfucker. tyrion never saw who threw the dung. he only heard sansa's gasp and joffrey's bellowed curse, and when he turned his head, the king was wiping brown filth from his cheek. there was more caked in his golden hair and spattered over sansa's legs. who threw that? joffrey screamed. he pushed his fingers into his hair, made a furious face, and flung away another handful of dung. i want the man who threw that! he shouted. a hundred golden dragons to the man who gives him up. he was up there! someone shouted from the crowd. the king wheeled his horse in a circle to survey the rooftops and open balconies above them. in the crowd people were pointing, shoving, cursing one another and the king. please, your grace, let him go, sansa pleaded. the king paid her no heed. bring me the man who flung that filth! joffrey commanded. he'll lick it off me or i'll have his head. dog, you bring him here! obedient, sandor clegane swung down from his saddle, but there was no way through that wall of flesh, let alone to the roof. those closest to him began to squirm and shove to get away, while others pushed forward to see. tyrion smelled disaster. clegane, leave off, the man is long fled. i want him! joffrey pointed at the roof. he was up there! dog, cut through them and bring- a tumult of sound drowned his last words, a rolling thunder of rage and fear and hatred that engulfed them from all sides. bastard! someone screamed at joffrey, bastard monster. other voices flung calls of whore and brotherfucker at the queen, while tyrion was pelted with shouts of freak and halfman. mixed in with the abuse, he heard a few cries of justice and robb, king robb, the young wolf, of stannis! and even renly! from both sides of the street, the crowd surged against the spear shafts while the gold cloaks struggled to hold the line. stones and dung and fouler things whistled overhead. feed us! a woman shrieked. bread! boomed a man behind her. we want bread, bastard! in a heartbeat, a thousand voices took up the chant. king joffrey and king robb and king stannis were forgotten, and king bread ruled alone. bread, they clamored. bread, bread! tyrion spurred to his sister's side, yelling, back to the castle. now cersei gave a curt nod, and ser lancel unsheathed his sword. ahead of the column, jacelyn bywater was roaring commands. his riders lowered their lances and drove forward in a wedge. the king was wheeling his palfrey around in anxious circles while hands reached past the line of gold cloaks, grasping for him. one managed to get hold of his leg, but only for an instant. ser mandon's sword slashed down, parting hand from wrist. ride! tyrion shouted at his nephew, giving the horse a sharp smack on the rump. the animal reared, trumpeting, and plunged ahead, the press shattering before him. tyrion drove into the gap hard on the king's hooves. bronn kept pace, sword in hand. a jagged rock flew past his head as he rode, and a rotten cabbage exploded against ser mandon's shield. to their left, three gold cloaks went down under the surge, and then the crowd was rushing forward, trampling the fallen men. the hound had vanished behind, though his riderless horse galloped beside them. tyrion saw aron santagar pulled from the saddle, the gold-and-black baratheon stag torn from his grasp. ser balon swann dropped the lannister lion to draw his longsword. he slashed right and left as the fallen banner was ripped apart, the thousand ragged pieces swirling away like crimson leaves in a stormwind. in an instant they were gone. someone staggered in front of joffrey' s horse and shrieked as the king rode him down. whether it had been man, woman, or child tyrion could not have said. joffrey was galloping at his side, whey- faced, with ser mandon moore a white shadow on his left. and suddenly the madness was behind and they were clattering across the cobbled square that fronted on the castle barbican. a line of spearmen held the gates. ser jacelyn was wheeling his lances around for another charge. the spears parted to let the king's party pass under the portcullis. pale red walls loomed up about them, reassuringly high and aswarm with crossbowmen. tyrion did not recall dismounting. ser mandon was helping the shaken king off his horse when cersei, tommen, and lancel rode through the gates with ser meryn and ser boros close behind. boros had blood smeared along his blade, while meryn' s white cloak had been torn from his back. ser balon swann rode in helmetless, his mount lathered and bleeding at the mouth. horas redwyne brought in lady tanda, half crazed with fear for her daughter lollys, who had been knocked from the saddle and left behind. lord gyles, more grey of face than ever, stammered out a tale of seeing the high septon spilled from his litter, screeching prayers as the crowd swept over him. jalabhar xho said he thought he'd seen ser preston greenfield of the kingsguard riding back toward the high septon' s overturned litter, but he was not certain. tyrion was dimly aware of a maester asking if he was injured. he pushed his way across the yard to where his nephew stood, his dungencrusted crown askew. traitors, joffrey was babbling excitedly, i'll have all their heads, 111- the dwarf slapped his flushed face so hard the crown flew from joffrey's head. then he shoved him with both hands and knocked him sprawling. you blind bloody fool. they were traitors, joffrey squealed from the ground. they called me names and attacked me! you set your dog on them! what did you imagine they would do, bend the knee meekly while the hound lopped off some limbs? you spoiled witless little boy, you've killed clegane and gods know how many more, and yet you come through unscratched. damn you! and he kicked him. it felt so good he might have done more, but ser mandon moore pulled him off as joffrey howled, and then bronn was there to take him in hand. cersei knelt over her son, while ser balon swann restrained ser lancel. tyrion wrenched free of bronn's grip. how many are still out there? he shouted to no one and everyone. my daughter, cried lady tanda. please, someone must go back for lollys... ser preston is not returned, ser boros blount reported, nor aron santagar. nor wet nurse, said ser horas redwyne. that was the mocking name the other squires had hung on young tyrek lannister. tyrion glanced round the yard. where's the stark girl? for a moment no one answered. finally joffrey said, she was riding by me. i don't know where she went. tyrion pressed blunt fingers into his throbbing temples. if sansa stark had come to harm, jaime was as good as dead. ser mandon, you were her shield. ser mandon moore remained untroubled. when they mobbed the hound, i thought first of the king. and rightly so, cersei put in. boros, meryn, go back and find the girl. and my daughter, lady tanda sobbed. please, sers. ser boros did not look pleased at the prospect of leaving the safety of the castle. your grace, he told the queen, the sight of our white cloaks might enrage the mob. tyrion had stomached all he cared to. the others take your fucking cloaks! take them off if you're afraid to wear them, you bloody oaf... but find me sansa stark or i swear, i'll have shagga split that ugly head of yours in two to see if there's anything inside but black pudding. ser boros went purple with rage. you would call me ugly, you? he started to raise the bloody sword still clutched in his mailed fist. bronn shoved tyrion unceremoniously behind him. stop it! cersei snapped. boros, you'll do as you're bid, or we'll find someone else to wear that cloak. your oath- there she is! joffrey shouted, pointing. sandor clegane cantered briskly through the gates astride sansa's chestnut courser. the girl was seated behind, both arms tight around the hound's chest. tyrion called to her. are you hurt, lady sansa? blood was trickling down sansa's brow from a deep gash on her scalp. they... they were throwing things... rocks and filth, eggs... i tried to tell them, i had no bread to give them. a man tried to pull me from the saddle. the hound killed him, i think ... his arm... her eyes widened and she put a hand over her mouth. he cut off his arm. clegane lifted her to the ground. his white cloak was torn and stained, and blood seeped through a jagged tear in his left sleeve. the little bird's bleeding. someone take her back to her cage and see to that cut. maester frenken scurried forward to obey. they did for santagar, the hound continued. four men held him down and took turns bashing at his head with a cobblestone. i gutted one, not that it did ser aron much good. lady tanda approached him. my daughter- never saw her. the hound glanced around the yard, scowling. where's my horse? if anything's happened to that horse, someone's going to pay. he was running with us for a time, tyrion said, but i don't know what became of him after that. fire! a voice screamed down from atop the barbican. my lords, there's smoke in the city. flea bottom's afire. tyrion was inutterably weary, but there was no time for despair. bronn, take as many men as you need and see that the water wagons are not molested, gods be good, the wildfire, if any blaze should reach that... we can lose all of flea bottom if we must, but on no account must the fire reach the guildhall of the alchemists, is that understood? clegane, you'll go with him. for half a heartbeat, tyrion thought he glimpsed fear in the hound's dark eyes. fire, he realized. the others take me, of course he hates fire, he's tasted it too well. the look was gone in an instant, replaced by clegane's familiar scowl. i'll go, he said, though not by your command. i need to find that horse. tyrion turned to the three remaining knights of the kingsguard. each of you will ride escort to a herald. command the people to return to their homes. any man found on the streets after the last peal of the evenfall bell will be killed. our place is beside the king, ser meryn said, complacent. cersei reared up like a viper. your place is where my brother says it is, she spit. the hand speaks with the king's own voice, and disobedience is treason. boros and meryn exchanged a look. should we wear our cloaks, your grace? ser boros asked. go naked for all i care. it might remind the mob that you're men. they're like to have forgotten after seeing the way you behaved out there in the street. tyrion let his sister rage. his head was throbbing. he thought he could smell smoke, though perhaps it was just the scent of his nerves fraying. two of the stone crows guarded the door of the tower of the hand. find me timett son of timett. stone crows do not run squeaking after burned men, one of the wildlings informed him haughtily. for a moment tyrion had forgotten who he was dealing with. then find me shagga. shagga sleeps. it was an effort not to scream. wake. him. it is no easy thing to wake shagga son of dolf, the man complained. his wrath is fearsome. he went off grumbling. the clansman wandered in yawning and scratching. half the city is rioting, the other half is burning, and shagga lies snoring, tyrion said. shagga mislikes your muddy water here, so he must drink your weak ale and sour wine, and after his head hurts. i have shae in a manse near the iron gate. i want you to go to her and keep her safe, whatever may come. the huge man smiled, his teeth a yellow crevasse in the hairy wilderness of his beard. shagga will fetch her here. just see that no harm comes to her. tell her i will come to her as soon as i may. this very night, perhaps, or on the morrow for a certainty.  yet by evenfall the city was still in turmoil, though bronn reported that the fires were quenched and most of the roving mobs dispersed. much as tyrion yearned for the comfort of shae's arms, he realized he would go nowhere that night. ser jacelyn bywater delivered the butcher's bill as he was supping on a cold capon and brown bread in the gloom of his solar. dusk had faded to darkness by then, but when his servants came to light his candles and start a fire in the hearth, tyrion had roared at them and sent them running. his mood was as black as the chamber, and bywater said nothing to lighten it. the list of the slain was topped by the high septon, ripped apart as he squealed to his gods for mercy. starving men take a hard view of priests too fat to walk, tyrion reflected. ser preston's corpse had been overlooked at first; the gold cloaks had been searching for a knight in white armor, and he had been stabbed and hacked so cruelly that he was red-brown from head to heel. ser aron santagar had been found in a gutter, his head a red pulp inside a crushed helm. lady tanda's daughter had surrendered her maidenhood to half a hundred shouting men behind a tanner's shop. the gold cloaks found her wandering naked on sowbelly row. tyrek was still missing, as was the high septon's crystal crown. nine gold cloaks had been slain, two score wounded. no one had troubled to count how many of the mob had died. i want tyrek found, alive or dead, tyrion said curtly when bywater was done. he's no more than a boy. son to my late uncle tygett. his father was always kind to me. we'll find him. the septon's crown as well. the others can bugger each other with the septon's crown, for all i care.  when you named me to command the watch, you told me you wanted plain truth, always. somehow i have a feeling i am not going to like whatever you're about to say, tyrion said gloomily. we held the city today, my lord, but i make no promises for the morrow. the kettle is close to boiling. so many thieves and murderers are abroad that no man's house is safe, the bloody flux is spreading in the stews along pisswater bend, there's no food to be had for copper nor silver. where before you heard only mutterings from the gutter, now there's open talk of treason in guildhalls and markets. do you need more men? i do not trust half the men i have now. slynt tripled the size of the watch, but it takes more than a gold cloak to make a watchman. there are good men and loyal among the new recruits, but also more brutes, sots, cravens, and traitors than you'd care to know. they're half-trained and undisciplined, and what loyalty they have is to their own skins. if it comes to battle, they'll not hold, i fear. i never expected them to, said tyrion. once our walls are breeched, we are lost, i've known that from the start. my men are largely drawn from the smallfolk. they walk the same streets, drink in the same winesinks, spoon down their bowls of brown in the same pot-shops. your eunuch must have told you, there is small love for the lannisters in king's landing. many still remember how your lord father sacked the city, when aerys opened the gates to him. they whisper that the gods are punishing us for the sins of your house-for your brother's murder of king aerys, for the butchery of rhaegar's children, for the execution of eddard stark and the savagery of joffrey's justice. some talk openly of how much better things were when robert was king, and hint that times would be better again with stannis on the throne, in pot-shops and winesinks and brothels, you hear these thingsand in the barracks and guardhalls as well, i fear. they hate my family, is that what you are telling me? aye... and will turn on them, if the chance comes. me as well? ask your eunuch. i'm asking you. bywater's deep-set eyes met the dwarfs mismatched ones, and did not blink. you most of all, my lord. most of all? the injustice was like to choke him. it was joffrey who told them to eat their dead, joffrey who set his dog on them. how could they blame me? his grace is but a boy. in the streets, it is said that he has evil councillors. the queen has never been known as a friend to the commons, nor is lord varys called the spider out of love... but it is you they blame most. your sister and the eunuch were here when times were better under king robert, but you were not. they say that you've filled the city with swaggering sellswords and unwashed savages, brutes who take what they want and follow no laws but their own. they say you exiled janos slynt because you found him too bluff and honest for your liking. they say you threw wise and gentle pycelle into the dungeons when he dared raise his voice against you. some even claim that you mean to seize the iron throne for your own. yes, and i am a monster besides, hideous and misshapen, never forget that. his hand coiled into a fist. i've heard enough. we both have work to attend to. leave me. perhaps my lord father was right to despise me all these years, if this is the best i can achieve, tyrion thought when he was alone. he stared down at the remains of his supper, his belly roiling at the sight of the cold greasy capon. disgusted, he pushed it away, shouted for pod, and sent the boy running to summon varys and bronn. my most trusted advisers are a eunuch and a sellsword, and my lady's a whore. what does that say of me- bronn complained of the gloom when he arrived, and insisted on a fire in the hearth. it was blazing by the time varys made his appearance. where have you been? tyrion demanded. about the king's business, my sweet lord. ah, yes, the king, tyrion muttered. my nephew is not fit to sit a privy, let alone the iron throne. varys shrugged. an apprentice must be taught his trade. half the'prentices on reeking lane could rule better than this king of yours. bronn seated himself across the table and pulled a wing off the capon. tyrion had made a practice of ignoring the sellsword's frequent insolences, but tonight he found it galling. i don't recall giving you leave to finish my supper. you didn't look to be eating it, bronn said through a mouthful of meat. city's starving, it's a crime to waste food. you have any wine? next he'll want me to pour it for him, tyrion thought darkly. you go too far, he warned. and you never go far enough. bronn tossed the wingbone to the rushes. ever think how easy life would be if the other one had been born first? he thrust his fingers inside the capon and tore off a handful of breast. the weepy one, tommen. seems like he'd do whatever he was told, as a good king should. a chill crept down tyrion's spine as he realized what the sellsword was hinting at. if tommen was king... there was only one way tommen would become king. no, he could not even think it. joffrey was his own blood, and jaime's son as much as cersei's. i could have your head off for saying that, he told bronn, but the sellsword only laughed. friends, said varys, quarreling will not serve us. i beg you both, take heart. whose? asked tyrion sourly. he could think of several tempting choices. the queen intends to send prince tommen away. they knelt alone in the hushed dimness of the sept, surrounded by shadows and flickering candles, but even so lancel kept his voice low. lord gyles will take him to rosby, and conceal him there in the guise of a page. they plan to darken his hair and tell everyone that he is the son of a hedge knight. is it the mob she fears? or me? both, said lancel. ah. tyrion had known nothing of this ploy. had varys's little birds failed him for once? even spiders must nod, he supposed... or was the eunuch playing a deeper and more subtle game than he knew? you have my thanks, ser. will you grant me the boon i asked of you? perhaps. lancel wanted his own command in the next battle. a splendid way to die before he finished growing that mustache, but young knights always think themselves invincible. tyrion lingered after his cousin had slipped away. at the warrior's altar, he used one candle to light another. watch over my brother, you bloody bastard, he's one of yours. he lit a second candle to the stranger, for himself. that night, when the red keep was dark, bronn arrived to find him sealing a letter. take this to ser jacelyn bywater. the dwarf dribbled hot golden wax down onto the parchment. what does it say? bronn could not read, so he asked impudent questions. that he's to take fifty of his best swords and scout the roseroad. tyrion pressed his seal into the soft wax. stannis is more like to come up the kingsroad. oh, i know. tell bywater to disregard what's in the letter and take his men north. he's to lay a trap along the rosby road. lord gyles will depart for his castle in a day or two, with a dozen men-at-arms, some servants, and my nephew. prince tommen may be dressed as a page. you want the boy brought back, is that it? no. i want him taken on to the castle. removing the boy from the city was one of his sister's better notions, tyrion had decided. at rosby, tommen would be safe from the mob, and keeping him apart from his brother also made things more difficult for stannis; even if he took king's landing and executed joffrey, he'd still have a lannister claimant to contend with. lord gyles is too sickly to run and too craven to fight. he'll command his castellan to open the gates. once inside the walls, bywater is to expel the garrison and hold tommen there safe. ask him how he likes the sound of lord bywater. lord bronn would sound better. i could grab the boy for you just as well. i'll dandle him on my knee and sing him nursery songs if there's a lordship in it. i need you here, said tyrion. and i don't trust you with my nephew. should any ill befall joffrey, the lannister claim to the iron throne would rest on tommen's young shoulders. ser jacelyn's gold cloaks would defend the boy; bronn's sellswords were more apt to sell him to his enemies. what should the new lord do with the old one? whatever he pleases, so long as he remembers to feed him. i don't want him dying. tyrion pushed away from the table. my sister will send one of the kingsguard with the prince. bronn was not concerned. the hound is joffrey's dog, he won't leave him. ironhand's gold cloaks should be able to handle the others easy enough. if it comes to killing, tell ser jacelyn i won't have it done in front of tommen. tyrion donned a heavy cloak of dark brown wool. my nephew is tenderhearted. are you certain he's a lannister? i'm certain of nothing but winter and battle, he said. come. i'm riding with you part of the way. chataya's? you know me too well. they left through a postern gate in the north wall. tyrion put his heels into his horse and clattered down shadowblack lane. a few furtive shapes darted into alleys at the sound of hoofbeats on the cobbles, but no one dared accost them. the council had extended his curfew; it was death to be taken on the streets after the evenfall bells had sung. the measure had restored a degree of peace to king's landing and quartered the number of corpses found in the alleys of a morning, yet varys said the people cursed him for it. they should be thankful they have the breath to curse. a pair of gold cloaks confronted them as they were making their way along coppersmith's wynd, but when they realized whom they'd challenged they begged the hand's pardons and waved them on. bronn turned south for the mud gate and they parted company. tyrion rode on toward chataya's, but suddenly his patience deserted him. he twisted in the saddle, scanning the street behind. there were no signs of followers. every window was dark or tightly shuttered. he heard nothing but the wind swirling down the alleys. if cersei has someone stalking me tonight, he must be disguised as a rat. bugger it all, he muttered. he was sick of caution. wheeling his horse around, he dug in his spurs. if anyone's after me, we'll see how well they ride. he flew through the moonlight streets, clattering over cobbles, darting down narrow alleys and up twisty wynds, racing to his love. as he hammered on the gate he heard music wafting faintly over the spiked stone walls. one of the ibbenese ushered him inside. tyrion gave the man his horse and said, who is that? the diamond-shaped panes of the longhall windows shone with yellow light, and he could hear a man singing. the ibbenese shrugged. fatbelly singer. the sound swelled as he walked from the stable to the house. tyrion had never been fond of singers, and he liked this one even less than the run of the breed, sight unseen. when he pushed open the door, the man broke off. my lord hand. he knelt, balding and kettle-bellied, murmuring, an honor, an honor. mtord. shae smiled at the sight of him. he liked that smile, the quick unthinking way it came to her pretty face. the girl wore her purple silk, belted with a cloth-of-silver sash. the colors favored her dark hair and the smooth cream of her skin. s weeding, he called her. and who is this? the singer raised his eyes. i am called symon silver tongue, my lord. a player, a singer, a taleteller- 'and a great fool, tyrion finished. what did you call me, when i entered?  call? i only... the silver in symon's tongue seemed to have turned to lead. my lord hand, i said, an honor... a wiser man would have pretended not to recognize me. not that i would have been fooled, but you ought to have tried. what am i to do with you now? you know of my sweet shae, you know where she dwells, you know that i visit by night alone. i swear, i'll tell no one... on that much we agree. good night to you. tyrion led shae up the stairs. my singer may never sing again now, she teased. you've scared the voice from him. a little fear will help him reach those high notes. she closed the door to their bedchamber. you won't hurt him, will you? she lit a scented candle and knelt to pull off his boots. his songs cheer me on the nights you don't come. would that i could come every night, he said as she rubbed his bare feet. how well does he sing? better than some. not so good as others. tyrion opened her robe and buried his face between her breasts. she always smelled clean to him, even in this reeking sty of a city. keep him if you like, but keep him close. i won't have him wandering the city spreading tales in pot-shops. he won't- she started. tyrion covered her mouth with his own. he'd had talk enough; he needed the sweet simplicity of the pleasure he found between shae's thighs. here, at least, he was welcome, wanted. afterward, he eased his arm out from under her head, slipped on his tunic, and went down to the garden. a half- moon silvered the leaves of the fruit trees and shone on the surface of the stone bathing pond. tyrion seated himself beside the water. somewhere off to his right a cricket was chirping, a curiously homey sound. it is peaceful here, he thought, but for how long? a whiff of something rank made him turn his head. shae stood in the door behind him, dressed in the silvery robe he'd given her. i loved a maid as white as winter, with moonglow in her hair. behind her stood one of the begging brothers, a portly man in filthy patched robes, his bare feet crusty with dirt, a bowl hung about his neck on a leather thong where a septon would have worn a crystal. the smell of him would have gagged a rat. lord varys has come to see you, shae announced. the begging brother blinked at her, astonished. tyrion laughed. to be sure. how is it you knew him when i did not? she shrugged. it's still him. only dressed different. a different look, a different smell, a different way of walking, said tyrion. most men would be deceived. and most women, maybe. but not whores. a whore learns to see the man, not his garb, or she turns up dead in an alley. varys looked pained, and not because of the false scabs on his feet. tyrion chuckled. shae, would you bring us some wine? he might need a drink. whatever brought the eunuch here in the dead of night was not like to be good. i almost fear to tell you why i've come, my lord, varys said when shae had left them. i bring dire tidings. you ought to dress in black feathers, varys, you're as bad an omen as any raven. awkwardly, tyrion pushed to his feet, half afraid to ask the next question. is it jaime? if they have harmed him, nothing will save them. no, my lord. a different matter. ser cortnay penrose is dead. storm's end has opened its gates to stannis baratheon. dismay drove all other thoughts from tyrion' s mind. when shae returned with the wine, he took one sip and flung the cup away to explode against the side of the house. she raised a hand to shield herself from the shards as the wine ran down the stones in long fingers, black in the moonlight. damn him! tyrion said. varys smiled, showing a mouth full of rotted teeth. who, my lord? ser cortnay or lord stannis? both of them. storm's end was strong, it should have been able to hold out for half a year or more... time enough for his father to finish with robb stark. how did this happen? varys glanced at shae. my lord, must we trouble your sweet lady's sleep with such grim and bloody talk? a lady might be afraid, said shae, but i'm not. you should be, tyrion told her. with storm's end fallen, stannis will soon turn his attention toward king's landing. he regretted flinging away that wine now. lord varys, give us a moment, and i'll ride back to the castle with you. i shall wait in the stables. he bowed and stomped off. tyrion drew shae down beside him. you are not safe here. i have my walls, and the guards you gave me. sellswords, tyrion said. they like my gold well enough, but will they die for it? as for these walls, a man could stand on another's shoulders and be over in a heartbeat. a manse much like this one was burned during the riots. they killed the goldsmith who owned it for the crime of having a full larder, just as they tore the high septon to pieces, raped lollys half a hundred times, and smashed ser aron's skull in. what do you think they would do if they got their hands on the hand's lady? the hand's whore, you mean? she looked at him with those big bold eyes of hers. though i would be your lady, m'lord. i'd dress in all the beautiful things you gave me, in satin and samite and cloth-of-gold, and i'd wear your jewels and hold your hand and sit by you at feasts. i could give you sons, i know i could... and i vow i'd never shame you. my love for you shames me enough. a sweet dream, shae. now put it aside, i beg you. it can never be. because of the queen? i'm not afraid of her either. i am. then kill her and be done with it. it's not as if there was any love between you. tyrion sighed. she's my sister. the man who kills his own blood is cursed forever in the sight of gods and men. moreover, whatever you and i may think of cersei, my father and brother hold her dear. i can scheme with any man in the seven kingdoms, but the gods have not equipped me to face jaime with swords in hand. the young wolf and lord stannis have swords and they don't scare you. how little you know, sweetling. against them i have all the power of house lannister. against jaime or my father, i have no more than a twisted back and a pair of stunted legs. you have me. shae kissed him, her arms sliding around his neck as she pressed her body to his. the kiss aroused him, as her kisses always did, but this time tyrion gently disentangled himself. not now. sweetling, i have... well, call it the seed of a plan. i think i might be able to bring you into the castle kitchens. shae's face went still. the kitchens? yes. if i act through varys, no one will be the wiser. she giggled. mtord, i'd poison you. every man who's tasted my cooking has told me what a good whore i am. the red keep has sufficient cooks. butchers and bakers too. you'd need to pose as a scullion. a pot girl, she said, in scratchy brown roughspun. is that how m'lord wants to see me? mtord wants to see you alive, tyrion said. you can scarcely scour pots in silk and velvet. has m'lord grown tired of me? she reached a hand under his tunic and found his cock. in two quick strokes she had it hard. he still wants me. she laughed. would you like to fuck your kitchen wench, m'lord? you can dust me with flour and suck gravy off my titties if you... stop it. the way she was acting reminded him of dancy, who had tried so hard to win her wager. he yanked her hand away to keep her from further mischief. this is not the time for bed sport, shae. your life may be at stake. her grin was gone. if i've displeased m'lord, i never meant it, only... couldn't you just give me more guards? tyrion breathed a deep sigh. remember how young she is, he told himself. he took her hand. your gems can be replaced, and new gowns can be sewn twice as lovely as the old. to me, you're the most precious thing within these walls. the red keep is not safe either, but it's a deal safer than here. i want you there. in the kitchens. her voice was flat. scouring pots. for a short while. my father made me his kitchen wench, she said, her mouth twisting. that was why i ran off. you told me you ran off because your father made you his whore, he reminded her. that too. i didn't like scouring his pots no more than i liked his cock in me. she tossed her head. why can't you keep me in your tower? half the lords at court keep bedwarmers. i was expressly forbidden to take you to court. by your stupid father. shae pouted. you're old enough to keep all the whores you want. does he take you for a beardless boy? what could he do, spank you? he slapped her. not hard, but hard enough. damn you, he said. damn you. never mock me. not you. for a moment shae did not speak. the only sound was the cricket, chirping, chirping. beg pardon, m'lord, she said at last, in a heavy wooden voice. i never meant to be impudent. and i never meant to strike you. gods be good, am i turning into cersei? that was ill done, he said. on both our parts. shae, you do not understand. words he had never meant to speak came tumbling out of him like mummers from a hollow horse. when i was thirteen, i wed a crofter's daughter. or so i thought her. i was blind with love for her, and thought she felt the same for me, but my father rubbed my face in the truth. my bride was a whore jaime had hired to give me my first taste of manhood. and i believed all of it, fool that i was. to drive the lesson home, lord tywin gave my wife to a barracks of his guardsmen to use as they pleased, and commanded me to watch. and to take her one last time, after the rest were done, one last time, with no trace of love or tenderness remaining. so you will remember her as she truly is, he said, and i should have defied him, but my cock betrayed me, and i did as i was bid. after he was done with her, my father had the marriage undone. it was as if we had never been wed, the septons said. he squeezed her hand. please, let's have no more talk of the tower of the hand. you will be in the kitchens only a little while. once we're done with stannis, you'll have another manse, and silks as soft as your hands. shae's eyes had grown large but he could not read what lay behind them. my hands won't be soft if i clean ovens and scrape plates all day. will you still want them touching you when they're all red and raw and cracked from hot water and lye soap? more than ever, he said. when i look at them, they'll remind me how brave you were. he could not say if she believed him. she lowered her eyes. i am yours to command, m'lord. it was as much acceptance as she could give tonight, he saw that plain enough. he kissed her cheek where he'd struck her, to take some sting from the blow. i will send for you. varys was waiting in the stables, as promised. his horse looked spavined and half-dead. tyrion mounted up; one of the sellswords opened the gates. they rode out in silence. why did i tell her about tasha, gods help me? he asked himself, suddenly afraid. there were some secrets that should never be spoken, some shames a man should take to his grave. what did he want from her, forgiveness? the way she had looked at him, what did that mean? did she hate the thought of scouring pots that much, or was it his confession? how could i tell her that and still think she would love me? part of him said, and another part mocked, saying, fool of a dwarf, it is only the gold and jewels the whore loves. his scarred elbow was throbbing, jarred every time the horse set down a hoof. sometimes he could almost fancy he heard the bones grinding together inside. perhaps he should see a maester, get some potion for the pain... but since pycelle had revealed himself for what he was, tyrion lannister mistrusted the maesters. the gods only knew who they were conspiring with, or what they had mixed in those potions they gave you. varys, he said. i need to bring shae into the castle without cersei becoming aware. briefly, he sketched out his kitchen scheme. when he was done, the eunuch made a little clucking sound. i will do as my lord commands, of course... but i must warn you, the kitchens are full of eyes and ears. even if the girl falls under no particular suspicion, she will be subject to a thousand questions. where was she born? who were her parents? how did she come to king's landing? the truth will never do, so she must lie... and lie, and lie. he glanced down at tyrion. and such a pretty young kitchen wench will incite lust as well as curiosity. she will be touched, pinched, patted, and fondled. pot boys will crawl under her blankets of a night. some lonely cook may seek to wed her. bakers will knead her breasts with floured hands. i'd sooner have her fondled than stabbed, said tyrion. varys rode on a few paces and said, it might be that there is another way. as it happens, the maidservant who attends lady tanda's daughter has been filching her jewels. were i to inform lady tanda, she would be forced to dismiss the girl at once. and the daughter would require a new maidservant. i see. this had possibilities, tyrion saw at once. a lady's bedmaid wore finer garb than a scullion, and often even a jewel or two. shae should be pleased by that. and cersei thought lady tanda tedious and hysterical, and lollys a bovine lackwit. she was not like to pay them any friendly calls. lollys is timid and trusting, varys said. she will accept any tale she is told. since the mob took her maidenhood she is afraid to leave her chambers, so shae will be out of sight... but conveniently close, should you have need of comfort. the tower of the hand is watched, you know as well as i, cersei would be certain to grow curious if lollys's bedmaid starting paying me calls. i might be able to slip the child into your bedchamber unseen. chataya's is not the only house to boast a hidden door. a secret access? to my chambers? tyrion was more annoyed than surprised. why else would maegor the cruel have ordered death for all the builders who had worked on his castle, except to preserve such secrets? yes, i suppose there would be. where will i find the door? in my solar? my bedchamber? my friend, you would not force me to reveal all my little secrets, would you? henceforth think of them as our little secrets, varys. tyrion glanced up at the eunuch in his smelly mummer's garb. assuming you are on my side... can you doubt it? why no, i trust you implicitly. a bitter laugh echoed off the shuttered windows. i trust you like one of my own blood, in truth. now tell me how cortnay penrose died. it is said that he threw himself from a tower. threw himself? no, i will not believe that! his guards saw no man enter his chambers, nor did they find any within afterward. then the killer entered earlier and hid under the bed, tyrion suggested, or he climbed down from the roof on a rope. perhaps the guards are lying. who's to say they did not do the thing themselves? doubtless you are right, my lord. his smug tone said otherwise. but you do not think so? how was it done,then? for a long moment varys said nothing. the only sound was the stately clack of horseshoes on cobbles. finally the eunuch cleared his throat. my lord, do you believe in the old powers? magic, you mean? tyrion said impatiently. bloodspells, curses, shapeshifting, those sorts of things? he snorted. do you mean to suggest that ser cortnay was magicked to his death? ser cortnay had challenged lord stannis to single combat on the morning he died. i ask you, is this the act of a man lost to despair? then there is the matter of lord renly's mysterious and most fortuitous murder, even as his battle lines were forming up to sweep his brother from the field. the eunuch paused a moment. my lord, you once asked me how it was that i was cut. i recall, said tyrion. you did not want to talk of it. nor do i, but... this pause was longer than the one before, and when varys spoke again his voice was different somehow. i was an orphan boy apprenticed to a traveling folly. our master owned a fat little cog and we sailed up and down the narrow sea performing in all the free cities and from time to time in oldtown and king's landing. one day at myr, a certain man came to our folly. after the performance, he made an offer for me that my master found too tempting to refuse. i was in terror. i feared the man meant to use me as i had heard men used small boys, but in truth the only part of me he had need of was my manhood. he gave me a potion that made me powerless to move or speak, yet did nothing to dull my senses. with a long hooked blade, he sliced me root and stem, chanting all the while. i watched him burn my manly parts on a brazier. the flames turned blue, and i heard a voice answer his call, though i did not understand the words they spoke. the mummers had sailed by the time he was done with me. once i had served his purpose, the man had no further interest in me, so he put me out. when i asked him what i should do now, he answered that he supposed i should die. to spite him, i resolved to live. i begged, i stole, and i sold what parts of my body still remained to me. soon i was as good a thief as any in myr, and when i was older i learned that often the contents of a man's letters are more valuable than the contents of his purse. yet i still dream of that night, my lord. not of the sorcerer, nor his blade, nor even the way my manhood shriveled as it burned. i dream of the voice. the voice from the flames. was it a god, a demon, some conjurer's trick? i could not tell you, and i know all the tricks. all i can say for a certainty is that he called it, and it answered, and since that day i have hated magic and all those who practice it. if lord stannis is one such, i mean to see him dead. when he was done, they rode in silence for a time. finally tyrion said, a harrowing tale. i'm sorry. the eunuch sighed. you are sorry, but you do not believe me. no, my lord, no need to apologize. i was drugged and in pain and it was a very long time ago and far across the sea. no doubt i dreamed that voice. i've told myself as much a thousand times. i believe in steel swords, gold coins, and men's wits, said tyrion. and i believe there once were dragons. i've seen their skulls, after all. let us hope that is the worst thing you ever see, my lord. on that we agree. tyrion smiled. and for ser cortnay's death, well, we know stannis hired sellsails from the free cities. perhaps he bought himself a skilled assassin as well. a very skilled assassin. there are such. i used to dream that one day i'd be rich enough to send a faceless man after my sweet sister. regardless of how ser cortnay died, said varys, he is dead, the castle fallen. stannis is free to march. any chance we might convince the dornishmen to descend on the marches? asked tyrion. none. a pity. well, the threat may serve to keep the marcher lords close to their castles, at least. what news of my father? if lord tywin has won across the red fork, no word has reached me yet. if he does not hasten, he may be trapped between his foes. the oakheart leaf and the rowan tree have been seen north of the mander. no word from little finger? perhaps he never reached bitterbridge. or perhaps he's died there. lord tarly has seized renly's stores and put a great many to the sword; flo rents, chiefly. lord caswell has shut himself up in his castle. tyrion threw back his head and laughed. varys reined up, nonplussed. my lord? don't you see the jest, lord varys? tyrion waved a hand at the shuttered windows, at all the sleeping city. storm's end is fallen and stannis is coming with fire and steel and the gods alone know what dark powers, and the good folk don't have jaime to protect them, nor robert nor renly nor rhaegar nor their precious knight of flowers. only me, the one they hate. he laughed again. the dwarf, the evil counselor, the twisted little monkey demon. i'm all that stands between them and chaos. if you die stupidly, i'm going to feed your body to the goats, tyrion threatened as the first load of stone crows pushed off from the quay. shagga laughed. the halfman has no goats. i'll get some just for you. dawn was breaking, and pale ripples of light shimmered on the surface of the river, shattering under the poles and reforming when the ferry had passed. timett had taken his burned men into the kingswood two days before. yesterday the black ears and moon brothers followed, today the stone crows. whatever you do, don't try and fight a battle, tyrion said. strike at their camps and baggage train. ambush their scouts and hang the bodies from trees ahead of their line of march, loop around and cut down stragglers. i want night attacks, so many and so sudden that they'll be afraid to sleep- shagga laid a hand atop tyrion's head. all this i learned from dolf son of holger before my beard had grown. this is the way of war in the mountains of the moon. the kingswood is not the mountains of the moon, and you won't be fighting milk snakes and painted dogs. and listen to the guides i'm sending, they know this wood as well as you know your mountains. heed their counsel and they'll serve you well. shagga will listen to the halfman's pets, the clansman promised solemnly. and then it was time for him to lead his garron onto the ferry. tyrion watched them push off and pole out toward the center of the blackwater. he felt a queer twinge in the pit of his stomach as shagga faded in the morning mist. he was going to feel naked without his clansmen. he still had bronn's hirelings, near eight hundred of them now, but sellswords were notoriously fickle. tyrion had done what he could to buy their continued loyalty, promising bronn and a dozen of his best men lands and knighthoods when the battle was won. they'd drunk his wine, laughed at his jests, and called each other ser until they were all staggering... all but bronn himself, who'd only smiled that insolent dark smile of his and afterward said, they'll kill for that knighthood, but don't ever think they'll die for it. tyrion had no such delusion. the gold cloaks were almost as uncertain a weapon. six thousand men in the city watch, thanks to cersei, but only a quarter of them could be relied upon. there's few out-and-out traitors, though there's some, even your spider hasn't found them all, bywater had warned him. but there's hundreds greener than spring grass, men who joined for bread and ale and safety. no man likes to look craven in the sight of his fellows, so they'll fight brave enough at the start, when it's all warhorns and blowing banners. but if the battle looks to be going sour they'll break, and they'll break bad. the first man to throw down his spear and run will have a thousand more trodding on his heels. to be sure, there were seasoned men in the city watch, the core of two thousand who'd gotten their gold cloaks from robert, not cersei. yet even those... a watchman was not truly a soldier, lord tywin lannister had been fond of saying. of knights and squires and men-at-arms, tyrion had no more than three hundred. soon enough, he must test the truth of another of his father's sayings: one man on a wall was worth ten beneath it. bronn and the escort were waiting at the foot of the quay, amidst swarming beggars, strolling whores, and fishwives crying the catch. the fishwives did more business than all the rest combined. buyers flocked around the barrels and stalls to haggle over winkles, clams, and river pike. with no other food coming into the city, the price offish was ten times what it had been before the war, and still rising. those who had coin came to the riverfront each morning and each evening, in hopes of bringing home an eel or a pot of red crabs; those who did not slipped between the stalls hoping to steal, or stood gaunt and forlorn beneath the walls. the gold cloaks cleared a path through the press, shoving people aside with the shafts of their spears. tyrion ignored the muttered curses as best he could. a fish came sailing out of the crowd, slimy and rotten. it landed at his feet and flew to pieces. he stepped over it gingerly and climbed into his saddle. children with swollen bellies were already fighting over pieces of the stinking fish. mounted, he gazed along the riverfront. hammers rang in the morning air as carpenters swarmed over the mud gate, extending wooden hoardings from the battlements. those were coming well. he was a deal less pleased by the clutter of ramshackle structures that had been allowed to grow up behind the quays, attaching themselves to the city walls like barnacles on the hull of a ship; bait shacks and pot-shops, warehouses, merchants' stalls, alehouses, the cribs where the cheaper sort of whores spread their legs. it has to go, every bit of it. as it was, stannis would hardly need scaling ladders to storm the walls. he called bronn to his side.'assemble a hundred men and burn everything you see here between the water's edge and the city walls. he waved his stubby fingers, taking in all the waterfront squalor. i want nothing left standing, do you understand? the black-haired sellsword turned his head, considering the task. them as own all this won't like that much. i never imagined they would. so be it; they'll have something else to curse the evil monkey demon for. some may fight. see that they lose. what do we do with those that live here? let them have a reasonable time to remove their property, and then move them out. try not to kill any of them, they're not the enemy. and no more rapes! keep your men in line, damn it. they're sellswords, not septons, said bronn. next you'll be telling me you want them sober. it couldn't hurt. tyrion only wished he could as easily make city walls twice as tall and three times as thick. though perhaps it did not matter. massive walls and tall towers had not saved storm's end, nor harrenhal, nor even winterfell. he remembered winterfell as he had last seen it. not as grotesquely huge as harrenhal, nor as solid and impregnable to look at as storm's end, yet there had been a great strength in those stones, a sense that within those walls a man might feel safe. the news of the castle's fall had come as a wrenching shock. the gods give with one hand and take with the other, he muttered under his breath when varys told him. they had given the starks harrenhal and taken winterfell, a dismal exchange. no doubt he should be rejoicing. robb stark would have to turn north now. if he could not defend his own home and hearth, he was no sort of king at all. it meant reprieve for the west, for house lannister, and yet... tyrion had only the vaguest memory of theon greyjoy from his time with the starks. a callow youth, always smiling, skilled with a bow; it was hard to imagine him as lord of winterfell. the lord of winterfell would always be a stark. he remembered their godswood; the tall sentinels armored in their grey-green needles, the great oaks, the hawthorn and ash and soldier pines, and at the center the heart tree standing like some pale giant frozen in time. he could almost smell the place, earthy and brooding, the smell of centuries, and he remembered how dark the wood had been even by day. that wood was winterfell. it was the north. i never felt so out of place as i did when i walked there, so much an unwelcome intruder. he wondered if the greyjoys would feel it too. the castle might well be theirs, but never that godswood. not in a year, or ten, or fifty. tyrion lannister walked his horse slowly toward the mud gate. winterfell is nothing to you, he reminded himself. be glad the place has fallen, and look to your own walls. the gate was open. inside, three great trebuchets stood side by side in the market square, peering over the battlements like three huge birds. their throwing arms were made from the trunks of old oaks, and banded with iron to keep them from splitting. the gold cloaks had named them the three whores, because they'd be giving lord stannis such a lusty welcome. or so we hope. tyrion put his heels into his horse and trotted through the mud gate, breasting the human tide. once beyond the whores, the press grew thinner and the street opened up around him. the ride back to the red keep was uneventful, but at the tower of the hand he found a dozen angry trader captains waiting in his audience chamber to protest the seizure of their ships. he gave them a sincere apology and promised compensation once the war was done. that did little to appease them. what if you should lose, my lord? one braavosi asked. then apply to king stannis for your compensation. by the time he rid himself of them, bells were ringing and tyrion knew he would be late for the installation. he waddled across the yard almost at a run and crowded into the back of the castle sept as joffrey fastened white silk cloaks about the shoulders of the two newest members of his kingsguard. the rite seemed to require that everyone stand, so tyrion saw nothing but a wall of courtly arses. on the other hand, once the new high septon was finished leading the two knights through their solemn vows and anointing them in the names of the seven, he would be well positioned to be first out the doors. he approved of his sister's choice of ser balon swann to take the place of the slain preston greenfield. the swanns were marcher lords, proud, powerful, and cautious. pleading illness, lord gulian swann had remained in his castle, taking no part in the war, but his eldest son had ridden with renly and now stannis, while balon, the younger, served at king's landing. if he'd had a third son, tyrion suspected he'd be off with robb stark. it was not perhaps the most honorable course, but it showed good sense; whoever won the iron throne, the swanns intended to survive. in addition to being well born, young ser balon was valiant, courtly, and skilled at arms; good with a lance, better with a morningstar, superb with the bow. he would serve with honor and courage. alas, tyrion could not say the same for cersei's second choice. ser osmund kettleblack looked formidable enough. he stood six feet and six inches, most of it sinew and muscle, and his hook nose, bushy eyebrows, and spade-shaped brown beard gave his face a fierce aspect, so long as he did not smile. lowborn, no more than a hedge knight, kettleblack was utterly dependent on cersei for his advancement, which was doubtless why she'd picked him. ser osmund is as loyal as he is brave, she'd told joffrey when she put forward his name. it was true, unfortunately. the good ser osmund had been selling her secrets to bronn since the day she'd hired him, but tyrion could scarcely tell her that. he supposed he ought not complain. the appointment gave him another ear close to the king, unbeknownst to his sister. and even if ser osmund proved an utter craven, he would be no worse than ser boros blount, currently residing in a dungeon at rosby. ser boros had been escorting tommen and lord gyles when ser jacelyn bywater and his gold cloaks had surprised them, and had yielded up his charge with an alacrity that would have enraged old ser barristan selmy as much as it did cersei; a knight of the kingsguard was supposed to die in defense of the king and royal family. his sister had insisted that joffrey strip blount of his white cloak on the grounds of treason and cowardice. and now she replaces him with another man just as hollow. the praying, vowing, and anointing seemed to take most of the morning. tyrion's legs soon began to ache. he shifted his weight from one foot to the other, restless. lady tanda stood several rows up, he saw, but her daughter was not with her. he had been half hoping to catch a glimpse of shae. varys said she was doing well, but he would prefer to see for himself. better a lady's maid than a pot girl, shae had said when tyrion told her the eunuch's scheme. can i take my belt of silver flowers and my gold collar with the black diamonds you said looked like my eyes? i won't wear them if you say i shouldn't. loath as he was to disappoint her, tyrion had to point out that while lady tanda was by no means a clever woman, even she might wonder if her daughter's bedmaid seemed to own more jewelry than her daughter. choose two or three dresses, no more, he commanded her. good wool, no silk, no samite, and no fur. the rest i'll keep in my own chambers for when you visit me. it was not the answer shae had wanted, but at least she was safe. when the investiture was finally done joffrey marched out between ser balon and ser osmund in their new white cloaks, while tyrion lingered for a word with the new high septon (who was his choice, and wise enough to know who put the honey on his bread). i want the gods on our side, tyrion told him bluntly. tell them that stannis has vowed to burn the great sept of baelor. is it true, my lord? asked the high septon, a small, shrewd man with a wispy white beard and wizened face. tyrion shrugged. it may be. stannis burned the godswood at storm's end as an offering to the lord of light. if he'd offend the old gods, why should he spare the new? tell them that. tell them that any man who thinks to give aid to the usurper betrays the gods as well as his rightful king. i shall, my lord. and i shall command them to pray for the health of the king and his hand as well. hallyne the pyromancer was waiting on him when tyrion returned to his solar, and maester frenken had brought messages. he let the alchemist wait a little longer while he read what the ravens had brought him. there was an old letter from doran martell, warning him that storm's end had fallen, and a much more intriguing one from balon greyjoy on pyke, who styled himself king of the isles and the north. he invited king joffrey to send an envoy to the iron islands to fix the borders between their realms and discuss a possible alliance. tyrion read the letter three times and set it aside. lord balon's longships would have been a great help against the fleet sailing up from storm's end, but they were thousands of leagues away on the wrong side of westeros, and tyrion was far from certain that he wanted to give away half the realm. perhaps i should spill this one in cersei's lap, or take it to the council. only then did he admit hallyne with the latest tallies from the alchemists. this cannot be true, said tyrion as he pored over the ledgers. almost thirteen thousand jars? do you take me for a fool? i'm not about to pay the king's gold for empty jars and pots of sewage sealed with wax, i warn you. no, no, hallyne squeaked, the sums are accurate, i swear. we have been, hmmm, most fortunate, my lord hand. another cache of lord rossart's was found, more than three hundred jars. under the dragonpit! some whores have been using the ruins to entertain their patrons, and one of them fell through a patch of rotted floor into a cellar. when he felt the jars, he mistook them for wine. he was so drunk he broke the seal and drank some. there was a prince who tried that once, said tyrion dryly. i haven't seen any dragons rising over the city, so it would seem it didn't work this time either. the dragonpit atop the hill of rhaenys had been abandoned for a century and a half. he supposed it was as good a place as any to store wildfire, and better than most, but it would have been nice if the late lord rossart had told someone. three hundred jars, you say? that still does not account for these totals. you are several thousand jars ahead of the best estimate you gave me when last we met. yes, yes, that's so. hallyne mopped at his pale brow with the sleeve of his black-and-scarlet robe. we have been working very hard, my lord hand, hmmm. that would doubtless explain why you are making so much more of the substance than before. smiling, tyrion fixed the pyromancer with his mismatched stare. though it does raise the question of why you did not begin working hard until now. hallyne had the complexion of a mushroom, so it was hard to see how he could turn any paler, yet somehow he managed. we were, my lord hand, my brothers and i have been laboring day and night from the first, i assure you. it is only, hmmm, we have made so much of the substance that we have become, hmmm, more practiced as it were, and also -the alchemist shifted uncomfortably- certain spells, hmmm, ancient secrets of our order, very delicate, very troublesome, but necessary if the substance is to be, hmmm, all it should be... tyrion was growing impatient. ser jacelyn bywater was likely here by now, and ironhand misliked waiting. yes, you have secret spells; how splendid. what of them? they, hmmm, seem to be working better than they were. hallyne smiled weakly. you don't suppose there are any dragons about, do you?  not unless you found one under the dragonpit. why? oh, pardon, i was just remembering something old wisdom pollitor told me once, when i was an acolyte. i'd asked him why so many of our spells seemed, well, not as effectual as the scrolls would have us believe, and he said it was because magic had begun to go out of the world the day the last dragon died. sorry to disappoint you, but i've seen no dragons. i have noticed the king's justice lurking about, however. should any of these fruits you're selling me turn out to be filled with anything but wildfire, you'll be seeing him as well. hallyne fled so quickly that he almost bowled over ser jacelyn-no, lord jacelyn, he must remember that. ironhand was mercifully direct, as ever. he'd returned from rosby to deliver a fresh levy of spearmen recruited from lord gyles's estates and resume his command of the city watch. how does my nephew fare? tyrion asked when they were done discussing the city's defenses. prince tommen is hale and happy, my lord. he has adopted a fawn some of my men brought home from a hunt. he had one once before, he says, but joffrey skinned her for a jerkin. he asks about his mother sometimes, and often begins letters to the princess myrcella, though he never seems to finish any. his brother, however, he does not seem to miss at all. you have made suitable arrangements for him, should the battle be lost? my men have their instructions. which are? you commanded me to tell no one, my lord. that made him smile. i'm pleased you remember. should king's landing fall, he might well be taken alive. better if he did not know where joffrey's heir might be found. varys appeared not long after lord jacelyn had left. men are such faithless creatures, he said by way of greeting. tyrion sighed. who's the traitor today? the eunuch handed him a scroll. so much villainy, it sings a sad song for our age. did honor die with our fathers? my father is not dead yet. tyrion scanned the list. i know some of these names. these are rich men. traders, merchants, craftsmen. why should they conspire against us? it seems they believe that lord stannis must win, and wish to share his victory. they call themselves the antler men, after the crowned stag. someone should tell them that stannis changed his sigil. then they can be the hot hearts. it was no matter for jests, though; it appeared that these antler men had armed several hundred followers, to seize the old gate once battle was joined, and admit the enemy to the city. among the names on the list was the master armorer salloreon. i suppose this means i won't be getting that terrifying helm with the demon horns, tyrion complained as he scrawled the order for the man's arrest. pod dressed him for his ordeal in a plush velvet tunic of lannister crimson and brought him his chain of office. tyrion left it on the bedside table. his sister misliked being reminded that he was the king's hand, and he did not wish to inflame the relations between them any further. varys caught up with him as he was crossing the yard. my lord, he said, a little out of breath. you had best read this at once. he held out a parchment in a soft white hand. a report from the north. good news or bad? tyrion asked. that is not for me to judge. tyrion unrolled the parchment. he had to squint to read the words in the torchlit yard. gods be good, he said softly. both of them? i fear so, my lord. it is so sad. so grievous sad. and them so young and innocent. tyrion remembered how the wolves had howled when the stark boy had fallen. are they howling now, i wonder? have you told anyone else? he asked. not as yet, though of course i must. he rolled up the letter. i'll tell my sister. he wanted to see how she took the news. he wanted that very much. the queen looked especially lovely that night. she wore a low-cut gown of deep green velvet that brought out the color of her eyes. her golden hair tumbled across her bare shoulders, and around her waist was a woven belt studded with emeralds. tyrion waited until he had been seated and served a cup of wine before thrusting the letter at her. he said not a word. cersei blinked at him innocently and took the parchment from his hand. i trust you're pleased, he said as she read. you wanted the stark boy dead, i believe. cersei made a sour face. it was jaime who threw him from that window, not me. for love, he said, as if that would please me. it was a stupid thing to do, and dangerous besides, but when did our sweet brother ever stop to think? the boy saw you, tyrion pointed out. he was a child. i could have frightened him into silence. she looked at the letter thoughtfully. why must i suffer accusations every time some stark stubs his toe? this was greyjoy's work, i had nothing to do with it. let us hope lady catelyn believes that. her eyes widened. she wouldn't- -kill jaime? why not? what would you do if joffrey and tommen were murdered? i still hold sansa! the queen declared. we still hold sansa, he corrected her, and we had best take good care of her. now where is this supper you've promised me, sweet sister? cersei set a tasty table, that could not be denied. they started with a creamy chestnut soup, crusty hot bread, and greens dressed with apples and pine nuts. then came lamprey pie, honeyed ham, buttered carrots, white beans and bacon, and roast swan stuffed with mushrooms and oysters. tyrion was exceedingly courteous; he offered his sister the choice portions of every dish, and made certain he ate only what she did. not that he truly thought she'd poison him, but it never hurt to be careful. the news about the starks had soured her, he could see. we've had no word from bitterbridge? she asked anxiously as she speared a bit of apple on the point of her dagger and ate it with small, delicate bites. none. i've never trusted littlefinger. for enough coin, he'd go over to stannis in a heartbeat. stannis baratheon is too bloody righteous to buy men. nor would he make a comfortable lord for the likes of petyr. this war has made for some queer bedfellows, i agree, but those two? no. as he carved some slices off the ham, she said, we have lady tanda to thank for the pig. a token of her love? a bribe. she begs leave to return to her castle. your leave as well as mine. i suspect she fears you'll arrest her on the road, as you did lord gyles. does she plan to make off with the heir to the throne? tyrion served his sister a cut of ham and took one for himself. i'd sooner she remain. if she wants to feel safe, tell her to bring down her garrison from stokeworth. as many men as she has. if we need men so badly, why did you send away your savages? a certain testiness crept into cersei's voice. it was the best use i could have made of them, he told her truthfully. they're fierce warriors, but not soldiers. in formal battle, discipline is more important than courage. they've already done us more good in the kingswood than they would ever have done us on the city walls. as the swan was being served, the queen questioned him about the conspiracy of the antler men. she seemed more annoyed than afraid. why are we plagued with so many treasons? what injury has house lannister ever done these wretches? none, said tyrion, but they think to be on the winning side... which makes them fools as well as traitors. are you certain you've found them all? varys says so. the swan was too rich for his taste. a line appeared on cersei's pale white brow, between those lovely eyes. you put too much trust in that eunuch. he serves me well. or so he'd have you believe. you think you're the only one he whispers secrets to? he gives each of us just enough to convince us that we'd be helpless without him. he played the same game with me, when i first wed robert. for years, i was convinced i had no truer friend at court, but now... she studied his face for a moment. he says you mean to take the hound from joffrey. damn varys. i need clegane for more important duties. nothing is more important than the life of the king. the life of the king is not at risk. jo ff will have brave ser osmund guarding him, and meryn trant as well. they're good for nothing better. i need balon swann and the hound to lead sorties, to make certain stannis gets no toehold on our side of the blackwater. jaime would lead the sorties himself. from riverrun? that's quite a sortie. joff s only a boy. a boy who wants to be part of this battle, and for once he's showing some sense. i don't intend to put him in the thick of the fighting, but he needs to be seen. men fight more fiercely for a king who shares their peril than one who hides behind his mother's skirts. he's thirteen, tyrion. remember jaime at thirteen? if you want the boy to be his father's son, let him play the part. joff wears the finest armor gold can buy, and he'll have a dozen gold cloaks around him at all times. if the city looks to be in the least danger of falling, i'll have him escorted back to the red keep at once. he had thought that might reassure her, but he saw no sign of pleasure in those green eyes. will the city fall? no. but if it does, pray that we can hold the red keep long enough for our lord father to march to our relief. you've lied to me before, tyrion. always with good reason, sweet sister. i want amity between us as much as you do. i've decided to release lord gyles. he had kept gyles safe for just this gesture. you can have ser boros blount back as well. the queen's mouth tightened. ser boros can rot at rosby, she said, but tommen- -stays where he is. he's safer under lord jacelyn's protection than he would ever have been with lord gyles. serving men cleared away the swan, hardly touched. cersei beckoned for the sweet. i hope you like blackberry tarts. i love all sorts of tarts. oh, i've known that a long while. do you know why varys is so dangerous?  are we playing at riddles now? no. he doesn't have a cock. neither do you. and don't you just hate that, cersei? perhaps i'm dangerous too. you, on the other hand, are as big a fool as every other man. that worm between your legs does half your thinking. tyrion licked the crumbs off his fingers. he did not like his sister's smile. yes, and just now my worm is thinking that perhaps it is time i took my leave. are you unwell, brother? she leaned forward, giving him a good look at the top of her breasts. suddenly you appear somewhat flustered. flustered? tyrion glanced at the door. he thought he'd heard something outside. he was beginning to regret coming here alone. you've never shown much interest in my cock before. it's not your cock that interests me, so much as what you stick it in. i don't depend on the eunuch for everything, as you do. i have my own ways of finding out things... especially things that people don't want me to know. what are you trying to say? only this- 1 have your little whore. tyrion reached for his wine cup, buying a moment to gather his thoughts. i thought men were more to your taste. you're such a droll little fellow. tell me, have you married this one yet? when he gave her no answer she laughed and said, father will be ever so relieved. his belly felt as if it were full of eels. how had she found shae? had varys betrayed him? or had all his precautions been undone by his impatience the night he rode directly to the manse? why should you care who i choose to warm my bed? a lannister always pays his debts, she said. you've been scheming against me since the day you came to king's landing. you sold myrcella, stole tommen, and now you plot to have joff killed. you want him dead so you can rule through tommen. well, i can't say the notion isn't tempting. this is madness, cersei. stannis will be here in days. you need me. for what? your great prowess in battle? bronn's sellswords will never fight without me, he lied. oh, i think they will. it's your gold they love, not your impish wit. have no fear, though, they won't be without you. i won't say i haven't thought of slitting your throat from time to time, but jaime would never forgive me if i did. and the whore? he would not call her by name. if i can convince her shae means nothing to me, perhaps... she'll be treated gently enough, so long as no harm comes to my sons. if joff should be killed, however, or if tommen should fall into the hands of our enemies, your little cunt will die more painfully than you can possibly imagine. she truly believes i mean to kill my own nephew the boys are safe, he promised her wearily. gods be good, cersei, they're my own blood! what sort of man do you take me for? a small and twisted one. tyrion stared at the dregs on the bottom of his wine cup. what would jaime do in my place? kill the bitch, most likely, and worry about the consequences afterward. but tyrion did not have a golden sword, nor the skill to wield one. he loved his brother's reckless wrath, but it was their lord father he must try and emulate. stone, i must be stone, i must be casterly rock, hard and unmovable. if i fail this test, i had as lief seek out the nearest grotesquerie. for all i know, you've killed her already, he said. would you like to see her? i thought you might. cersei crossed the room and threw open the heavy oaken door. bring in my brother's whore. ser osmund's brothers osney and osfryd were peas from the same pod, tall men with hooked noses, dark hair, and cruel smiles. she hung between them, eyes wide and white in her dark face. blood trickled from her broken lip, and he could see bruises through her torn clothing. her hands were bound with rope, and they'd gagged her so she could not speak. you said she wouldn't be hurt. she fought. unlike his brothers, osney kettleblack was cleanshaven, so the scratches showed plainly on his bare cheeks. got claws like a shadowcat, this one. bruises heal, said cersei in a bored tone. the whore will live. so long as joff does. tyrion wanted to laugh at her. it would have been so sweet, so very very sweet, but it would have given the game away. you've lost, cersei, and the kettleblacks are even bigger fools than bronn claimed. all he needed to do was say the words. instead he looked at the girl's face and said, you swear you'll release her after the battle? if you release tommen, yes. he pushed himself to his feet. keep her then, but keep her safe. if these animals think they can use her... well, sweet sister, let me point out that a scale tips two ways. his tone was calm, flat, uncaring; he'd reached for his father's voice, and found it. whatever happens to her happens to tommen as well, and that includes the beatings and rapes. if she thinks me such a monster, i'll play the part for her. cersei had not expected that. you would not dare. tyrion made himself smile, slow and cold. green and black, his eyes laughed at her. dare? i'll do it myself. his sister's hand flashed at his face, but he caught her wrist and bent it back until she cried out. osfryd moved to her rescue. one more step and i'll break her arm, the dwarf warned him. the man stopped. you remember when i said you'd never hit me again, cersei? he shoved her to the floor and turned back to the kettleblacks. untie her and remove that gag. the rope had been so tight as to cut off the blood to her hands. she cried out in pain as the circulation returned. tyrion massaged her fingers gently until feeling returned. sweetling, he said, you must be brave. i am sorry they hurt you. i know you'll free me, my lord. i will, he promised, and alayaya bent over and kissed him on the brow. her broken lips left a smear of blood on his forehead. a bloody kiss is more than i deserve, tyrion thought. she would never have been hurt but for me. her blood still marked him as he looked down at the queen. i have never liked you, cersei, but you were my own sister, so i never did you harm. you've ended that. i will hurt you for this. i don't know how yet, but give me time. a day will come when you think yourself safe and happy, and suddenly your joy will turn to ashes in your mouth, and you'll know the debt is paid. in war, his father had told him once, the battle is over in the instant one army breaks and flees. no matter that they're as numerous as they were a moment before, still armed and armored; once they had run before you they would not turn to fight again. so it was with cersei. get out! was all the answer she could summon. get out of my sight! tyrion bowed. good night, then. and pleasant dreams. he made his way back to the tower of the hand with a thousand armored feet marching through his skull. i ought to have seen this coming the first time i slipped through the back of chataya's wardrobe. perhaps he had not wanted to see. his legs were aching badly by the time he had made the climb. he sent pod for a flagon of wine and pushed his way into his bedchamber. shae sat cross-legged in the canopied bed, nude but for the heavy golden chain that looped across the swell of her breasts: a chain of linked golden hands, each clasping the next. tyrion had not expected her. what are you doing here? laughing, she stroked the chain. i wanted some hands on my titties... but these little gold ones are cold. for a moment he did know what to say. how could he tell her that another woman had taken the beating meant for her, and might well die in her place should some mischance of battle fell joffrey? he wiped alayaya's blood from his brow with the heel of his hand. the lady lollys- she's asleep. sleep's all she ever wants to do, the great cow. she sleeps and she eats. sometimes she falls asleep while she's eating. the food falls under the blankets and she rolls in it, and i have to clean her. she made a disgusted face. all they did was fuck her. her mother says she's sick. she has a baby in her belly, that's all. tyrion gazed around the room. everything seemed much as he left it. how did you enter? show me the hidden door. she gave a shrug. lord varys made me wear a hood. i couldn't see, except... there was one place, i got a peep at the floor out the bottom of the hood. it was all tiles, you know, the kind that make a picture? a mosaic? shae nodded. they were colored red and black. i think the picture was a dragon. otherwise, everything was dark. we went down a ladder and walked a long ways, until i was all twisted around. once we stopped so he could unlock an iron gate. i brushed against it when we went through. the dragon was past the gate. then we went up another ladder, with a tunnel at the top. i had to stoop, and i think lord varys was crawling. tyrion made a round of the bedchamber. one of the sconces looked loose. he stood on his toes and tried to turn it. it revolved slowly, scraping against the stone wall. when it was upside down, the stub of the candle fell out. the rushes scattered across the cold stone floor did not show any particular disturbance. doesn't m'lord want to bed me? asked shae. in a moment. tyrion threw open his wardrobe, shoved the clothing aside, and pushed against the rear panel. what worked for a whorehouse might work for a castle as well... but no, the wood was solid, unyielding. a stone beside the window seat drew his eye, but all his tugging and prodding went for naught. he returned to the bed frustrated and annoyed. shae undid his laces and threw her arms around his neck. your shoulders feel as hard as rocks, she murmured. hurry, i want to feel you inside me. yet as her legs locked around his waist, his manhood left him. when she felt him go soft, shae slid down under the sheets and took him in her mouth, but even that could not rouse him. after a few moments he stopped her. what's wrong? she asked. all the sweet innocence of the world was written there in the lines of her young face. innocence? fool, she's a whore, cersei was right, you think with your cock, fool, fool. just go to sleep, sweetling, he urged, stroking her hair. yet long after shae had taken his advice, tyrion himself still lay awake, his fingers cupped over one small breast as he listened to her breathing. motionless as a gargoyle, tyrion lannister hunched on one knee atop a merlon. beyond the mud gate and the desolation that had once been the fishmarket and wharves, the river itself seemed to have taken fire. half of stannis's fleet was ablaze, along with most of joffrey's. the kiss of wildfire turned proud ships into funeral pyres and men into living torches. the air was full of smoke and arrows and screams. downstream, commoners and highborn captains alike could see the hot green death swirling toward their rafts and carracks and ferries, borne on the current of the blackwater. the long white oars of the myrish galleys flashed like the legs of maddened centipedes as they fought to come about, but it was no good. the centipedes had no place to run. a dozen great fires raged under the city walls, where casks of burning pitch had exploded, but the wildfire reduced them to no more than candles in a burning house, their orange and scarlet pennons fluttering insignificantly against the jade holocaust. the low clouds caught the color of the burning river and roofed the sky in shades of shifting green, eerily beautiful. a terrible beauty. like dragonfire. tyrion wondered if aegon the conqueror had felt like this as he flew above his field of fire. the furnace wind lifted his crimson cloak and beat at his bare face, yet he could not turn away. he was dimly aware of the gold cloaks cheering from the hoardings. he had no voice to join them. it was a half victory. it will not be enough. he saw another of the hulks he'd stuffed full of king aerys's fickle fruits engulfed by the hungry flames. a fountain of burning jade rose from the river the blast so bright he had to shield his eyes. plumes of fire thirty and forty feet high danced upon the waters, crackling and hissing. for a few moments they washed out the screams. there were hundreds in the water, drowning or burning or doing a little of both. do you hear them shrieking, stannis? do you see them burning? this is your work as much as mine. somewhere in that seething mass of men south of the blackwater, stannis was watching too, tyrion knew. he'd never had his brother robert's thirst for battle. he would command from the rear, from the reserve, much as lord tywin lannister was wont to do. like as not, he was sitting a warhorse right now, clad in bright armor, his crown upon his head. a crown of red gold, varys says, its points fashioned in the shapes of flames. my ships. joffrey's voice cracked as he shouted up from the wallwalk, where he huddled with his guards behind the ramparts. the golden circlet of kingship adorned his battle helm. my kingslander's burning, queen cersei, loyal man. look, that's seaflower, there. he pointed with his new sword, out to where the green flames were licking at seaflower's golden hull and creeping up her oars. her captain had turned her upriver, but not quickly enough to evade the wildfire. she was doomed, tyrion knew. there was no other way. if we had not come forth to meet them, stannis would have sensed the trap. an arrow could be aimed, and a spear, even the stone from a catapult, but wildfire had a will of its own. once loosed, it was beyond the control of mere men. it could not be helped, he told his nephew. our fleet was doomed in any case. even from atop the merlon-he had been too short to see over the ramparts, so he'd had them boost himup-the flames and smoke and chaos of battle made it impossible for tyrion to see what was happening downriver under the castle, but he had seen it a thousand times in his mind's eye. bronn would have whipped the oxen into motion the moment stannis's flagship passed under the red keep; the chain was ponderous heavy, and the great winches turned but slowly, creaking and rumbling. the whole of the usurper's fleet would have passed by the time the first glimmer of metal could be seen beneath the water. the links would emerge dripping wet, some glistening with mud, link by link by link, until the whole great chain stretched taut. king stannis had rowed his fleet up the blackwater, but he would not row out again. even so, some were getting away. a river's current was a tricky thing, and the wildfire was not spreading as evenly as he had hoped. the main channel was all aflame, but a good many of the myrmen had made for the south bank and looked to escape unscathed, and at least eight ships had landed under the city walls. landed or wrecked, but it comes to the same thing, they've put men ashore. worse, a good part of the south wing of the enemy's first two battle lines had been well upstream of the inferno when the hulks went up. stannis would be left with thirty or forty galleys, at a guess; more than enough to bring his whole host across, once they had regained their courage. that might take a bit of time; even the bravest would be dismayed after watching a thousand or so of his fellows consumed by wildfire. hallyne said that sometimes the substance burned so hot that flesh melted like tallow. yet even so... tyrion had no illusions where his own men were concerned. if the battle looks to be going sour they'll break, and they'll break bad, jacelyn bywater had warned him, so the only way to win was to make certain the battle stayed sweet, start to finish. he could see dark shapes moving through the charred ruins of the riverfront wharfs. time for another sortie, he thought. men were never so vulnerable as when they first staggered ashore. he must not give the foe time to form up on the north bank. he scrambled down off the merlon. tell lord jacelyn we've got enemy on the riverfront, he said to one of the runners bywater had assigned him. to another he said, bring my compliments to ser arneld and ask him to swing the whores thirty degrees west. the angle would allow them to throw farther, if not as far out into the water. mother promised i could have the whores, joffrey said. tyrion was annoyed to see that the king had lifted the visor of his helm again. doubtless the boy was cooking inside all that heavy steel... but the last thing he needed was some stray arrow punching through his nephew's eye. he clanged the visor shut. keep that closed, your grace; your sweet person is precious to us all. and you don't want to spoil that pretty face, either. the whores are yours. it was as good a time as any; flinging more firepots down onto burning ships seemed pointless. joff had the antler men trussed up naked in the square below, antlers nailed to their heads. when they'd been brought before the iron throne for justice, he had promised to send them to stannis. a man was not as heavy as a boulder or a cask of burning pitch, and could be thrown a deal farther. some of the gold cloaks had been wagering on whether the traitors would fly all the way across the blackwater. be quick about it, your grace, he told joffrey. we'll want the trebuchets throwing stones again soon enough. even wildfire does not burn forever. joffrey hurried off happy, escorted by ser meryn, but tyrion caught ser osmund by the wrist before he could follow. whatever happens, keep him safe and keep him there, is that understood? as you command. ser osmund smiled amiably. tyrion had warned trant and kettleblack what would happen to them should any harm come to the king. and joffrey had a dozen veteran gold cloaks waiting at the foot of the steps. i'm protecting your wretched bastard as well as i can, cersei, he thought bitterly. see you do the same for alayaya. no sooner was joff off than a runner came panting up the steps. i my lord, hurry! he threw himself to one knee. they've landed men on the tourney grounds, hundreds! they're bringing a ram up to the king's gate. tyrion cursed and made for the steps with a rolling waddle. podrick payne waited below with their horses. they galloped off down river row, pod and ser mandon moore coming hard behind him. the shuttered houses were steeped in green shadow, but there was no traffic to get in their way; tyrion had commanded that the street be kept clear, so the defenders could move quickly from one gate to the next. even so, by the time they reached the king's gate, he could hear a booming crash of wood on wood that told him the battering ram had been brought into play. the groaning of the great hinges sounded like the moans of a dying giant. the gatehouse square was littered with the wounded, but he saw lines of horses as well, not all of them hurt, and sellswords and gold cloaks enough to form a strong column. form up, he shouted as he leapt to the ground. the gate moved under the impact of another blow. who commands here? you're going out. no. a shadow detached itself from the shadow of the wall, to become a tall man in dark grey armor. sandor clegane wrenched off his helm with both hands and let it fall to the ground. the steel was scorched and dented, the left ear of the snarling hound sheared off. a gash above one eye had sent a wash of blood down across the hound's old burn scars, masking half his face. yes. tyrion faced him. clegane's breath came ragged. bugger that. and you. a sellsword stepped up beside him. we been out. three times. half our men are killed or hurt. wildfire bursting all around us, horses screaming like men and men like horses- did you think we hired you to fight in a tourney? shall i bring you a nice iced milk and a bowl of raspberries? no? then get on your fucking horse. you too, dog. the blood on clegane's face glistened red, but his eyes showed white. he drew his longsword. he is afraid, tyrion realized, shocked. the hound is frightened. he tried to explain their need. they've taken a ram to the gate, you can hear them, we need to disperse them- open the gates. when they rush inside, surround them and kill them. the hound thrust the point of his longsword into the ground and leaned upon the pommel, swaying. i've lost half my men. horse as well. i'm not taking more into that fire. ser mandon moore moved to tyrion's side, immaculate in his enameled white plate. the king's hand commands you. bugger the king's hand. where the hound's face was not sticky with blood, it was pale as milk. someone bring me a drink. a gold cloak officer handed him a cup. clegane took a swallow, spit it out, flung the cup away. water? fuck your water. bring me wine. he is dead on his feet. tyrion could see it now. the wound, the fire... he's done, i need to find someone else, but who? ser mandon? he looked at the men and knew it would not do. clegane's fear had shaken them. without a leader, they would refuse as well, and ser mandon... a dangerous man, jaime said, yes, but not a man other men would follow. in the distance tyrion heard another great crash. above the walls, the darkening sky was awash with sheets of green and orange light. how long could the gate hold? this is madness, he thought, but sooner madness than defeat. defeat is death and shame. very well, i'll lead the sortie. if he thought that would shame the hound back to valor, he was wrong. clegane only laughed. you? tyrion could see the disbelief on their faces. me. ser mandon, you'll bear the king's banner. pod, my helm. the boy ran to obey. the hound leaned on that notched and blood-streaked sword and looked at him with those wide white eyes. ser mandon helped tyrion mount up again. form up! he shouted. his big red stallion wore crinet and charnfron. crimson silk draped his hindquarters, over a coat of mail. the high saddle was gilded. podrik payne handed up helm and shield, heavy oak emblazoned with a golden hand on red, surrounded by small golden lions. he walked his horse in a circle, looking at the little force of men. only a handful had responded to his command, no more than twenty. they sat their horses with eyes as white as the hound's. he looked contemptuously at the others, the knights and sellswords who had ridden with clegane. they say i'm half a man, he said. what does that make the lot of you? that shamed them well enough. a knight mounted, helmetless, and rode to join the others. a pair of sellswords followed. then more. the king's gate shuddered again. in a few moments the size of tyrion's command had doubled. he had them trapped. if i fight, they must do the same, or they are less than dwarfs. you won't hear me shout out joffrey's name, he told them. you won't hear me yell for casterly rock either. this is your city stannis means to sack, and that's your gate he's bringing down. so come with me and kill the son of a bitch! tyrion unsheathed his axe, wheeled the stallion around, and trotted toward the sally port. he thought they were following, but never dared to look. the slot in his helm limited tyrion's vision to what was before him, but when he turned his head he saw three galleys beached on the tourney grounds, and a fourth, larger than the others, standing well out into the river, firing barrels of burning pitch from a catapult. wedge, tyrion commanded as his men streamed out of the sally port. they formed up in spearhead, with him at the point. ser mandon moore took the place to his right, flames shimmering against the white enamel of his armor, his dead eyes shining passionlessly through his helm. he rode a coal-black horse barded all in white, with the pure white shield of the kingsguard strapped to his arm. on the left, tyrion was surprised to see podrick payne, a sword in his hand. you're too young, he said at once. go back. i'm your squire, my lord. tyrion could spare no time for argument. with me, then. stay close. he kicked his horse into motion. they rode knee to knee, following the line of the looming walls. joffrey's standard streamed crimson and gold from ser mandon's staff, stag and lion dancing hoof to paw. they went from a walk to a trot, wheeling wide around the base of the tower. arrows darted from the city walls while stones spun and tumbled overhead, crashing down blindly onto earth and water, steel and flesh. ahead loomed the king's gate and a surging mob of soldiers wrestling with a huge ram, a shaft of black oak with an iron head. archers off the ships surrounded them, loosing their shafts at whatever defenders showed themselves on the gatehouse walls. lances, tyrion commanded. he sped to a canter. the ground was sodden and slippery, equal parts mud and blood. his stallion stumbled over a corpse, his hooves sliding and churning the earth, and for an instant tyrion feared his charge would end with him tumbling from the saddle before he even reached the foe, but somehow he and his horse both managed to keep their balance. beneath the gate men were turning, hurriedly trying to brace for the shock. tyrion lifted his axe and shouted, king's landing! other voices took up the cry, and now the arrowhead flew, a long scream of steel and silk, pounding hooves and sharp blades kissed by fire. ser mandon dropped the point of his lance at the last possible instant, and drove joffrey's banner through the chest of a man in a studded jerkin, lifting him full off his feet before the shaft snapped. ahead of tyrion was a knight whose surcoat showed a fox peering through a ring of flowers. florent was his first thought, but helmless ran a close second. he smashed the man in the face with all the weight of axe and arm and charging horse, taking off half his head. the shock of impact numbed his shoulder. shagga would laugh at me, he thought, riding on. a spear thudded against his shield. pod galloped beside him, slashing down at every foe they passed. dimly, he heard cheers from the men on the walls. the battering ram crashed down into the mud, forgotten in an instant as its handlers fled or turned to fight. tyrion rode down an archer, opened a spearman from shoulder to armpit, glanced a blow off a swordfish-crested helm. at the ram his big red reared but the black stallion leapt the obstacle smoothly and ser mandon flashed past him, death in snow-white silk. his sword sheared off limbs, cracked heads, broke shields asunder-though few enough of the enemy had made it across the river with shields intact. tyrion urged his mount over the ram. their foes were fleeing. he moved his head right to left and back again, but saw no sign of podrick payne. an arrow clattered against his cheek, missing his eye slit by an inch. his jolt of fear almost unhorsed him. if i'm to sit here like a stump, i had as well paint a target on my breastplate. he spurred his horse back into motion, trotting over and around a scatter of corpses. downriver, the blackwater was jammed with the hulks of burning galleys. patches of wildfire still floated atop the water, sending fiery green plumes swirling twenty feet into the air. they had dispersed the men on the battering ram, but he could see fighting all along the riverfront. ser balon swarm's men, most like, or lancel's, trying to throw the enemy back into the water as they swarmed ashore off the burning ships. we'll ride for the mud gate, he commanded. ser mandon shouted, the mud gate! and they were off again. king's landing! his men cried raggedly, and halfman! halfman! he wondered who had taught them that. through the steel and padding of his helm, he heard anguished screams, the hungry crackle of flame, the shuddering of warhorns, and the brazen blast of trumpets. fire was everywhere. gods be good, no wonder the hound was frightened. it's the flames he fears... a splintering crash rang across the blackwater as a stone the size of a horse landed square amidships on one of the galleys. ours or theirs? through the roiling smoke, he could not tell. his wedge was gone; every man was his own battle now. i should have turned back, he thought, riding on. the axe was heavy in his fist. a handful still followed him, the rest dead or fled. he had to wrestle his stallion to keep his head to the east. the big destrier liked fire no more than sandor clegane had, but the horse was easier to cow. men were crawling from the river, men burned and bleeding, coughing up water, staggering, most dying. he led his troop among them, delivering quicker cleaner deaths to those strong enough to stand. the war shrank to the size of his eye slit. knights twice his size fled from him, or stood and died. they seemed little things, and fearful. lannister! he shouted, slaying. his arm was red to the elbow, glistening in the light off the river. when his horse reared again, he shook his axe at the stars and heard them call out halfman! halftnan! tyrion felt drunk. the battle fever. he had never thought to experience it himself, though jaime had told him of it often enough. how time seemed to blur and slow and even stop, how the past and the future vanished until there was nothing but the instant, how fear fled, and thought fled, and even your body. you don't feel your wounds then, or the ache in your back from the weight of the armor, or the sweat running down into your eyes. you stop feeling, you stop thinking, you stop being you, there is only the fight, the foe, this man and then the next and the next and the next, and you know they are afraid and tired but you're not, you're alive, and death is all around you but their swords move so slowly, you can dance through them laughing. battle fever. i am half a man and drunk with slaughter, let them kill me if they can! they tried. another spearman ran at him. tyrion lopped off the head of his spear, then his hand, then his arm, trotting around him in a circle. an archer, bowless, thrust at him with an arrow, holding it as if it were a knife. the destrier kicked at the man's thigh to send him sprawling, and tyrion barked laughter. he rode past a banner planted in the mud, one of stannis's fiery hearts, and chopped the staff in two with a swing of his axe. a knight rose up from nowhere to hack at his shield with a two-handed greatsword, again and again, until someone thrust a dagger under his arm. one of tyrion's men, perhaps. he never saw. i yield, ser, a different knight called out, farther down the river. yield. ser knight, i yield to you. my pledge, here, here. the man lay in a puddle of black water, offering up a lobstered gauntlet in token of submission. tyrion had to lean down to take it from him. as he did, a pot of wildfire burst overhead, spraying green flame. in the sudden stab of light he saw that the puddle was not black but red. the gauntlet still had the knight's hand in it. he flung it back. yield, the man sobbed hopelessly, helplessly. tyrion reeled away. a man-at-arms grabbed the bridle of his horse and thrust at tyrion's face with a dagger. he knocked the blade aside and buried the axe in the nape of the man's neck. as he was wresting it free, a blaze of white appeared at the edge of his vision. tyrion turned, thinking to find ser mandon moore beside him again, but this was a different white knight. ser balon swann wore the same armor, but his horse trappings bore the battling black-and-white swans of his house. he's more a spotted knight than a white one, tyrion thought inanely. every bit of ser balon was spattered with gore and smudged by smoke. he raised his mace to point downriver. bits of brain and bone clung to its head. my lord, look. tyrion swung his horse about to peer down the blackwater. the current still flowed black and strong beneath, but the surface was a roil of blood and flame. the sky was red and orange and garish green. what? he said. then he saw. steel-clad men-at-arms were clambering off a broken galley that had smashed into a pier. so many, where are they coming from? squinting into the smoke and glare, tyrion followed them back out into the river. twenty galleys were jammed together out there, maybe more, it was hard to count. their oars were crossed, their hulls locked together with grappling lines, they were impaled on each other's rams, tangled in webs of fallen rigging. one great hulk floated hull up between two smaller ships. wrecks, but packed so closely that it was possible to leap from one deck to the other and so cross the blackwater. hundreds of stannis baratheon's boldest were doing just that. tyrion saw one great fool of a knight trying to ride across, urging a terrified horse over gunwales and oars, across tilting decks slick with blood and crackling with green fire. we made them a bloody bridge, he thought in dismay. parts of the bridge were sinking and other parts were afire and the whole thing was creaking and shifting and like to burst asunder at any moment, but that did not seem to stop them. those are brave men, he told ser balon in admiration. let's go kill them. he led them through the guttering fires and the soot and ash of the riverfront, pounding down a long stone quay with his own men and ser balon' s behind him. ser mandon fell in with them, his shield a ragged ruin. smoke and cinders swirled through the air, and the foe broke before their charge, throwing themselves back into the water, knocking over other men as they fought to climb up. the foot of the bridge was a halfsunken enemy galley with dragonsbane painted on her prow, her bottom ripped out by one of the sunken hulks tyrion had placed between the quays. a spearman wearing the red crab badge of house celtigar drove the point of his weapon up through the chest of balon swarm's horse before he could dismount, spilling the knight from the saddle. tyrion hacked at the man's head as he flashed by, and by then it was too late to rein up. his stallion leapt from the end of the quay and over a splintered gunwale, landing with a splash and a scream in ankle-deep water. tyrion's axe went spinning, followed by tyrion himself, and the deck rose up to give him a wet smack. madness followed. his horse had broken a leg and was screaming horribly. somehow he managed to draw his dagger, and slit the poor creature's throat. the blood gushed out in a scarlet fountain, drenching his arms and chest. he found his feet again and lurched to the rail, and then he was fighting, staggering and splashing across crooked decks awash with water. men came at him. some he killed, some he wounded, and some went away, but always there were more. he lost his knife and gained a broken spear, he could not have said how. he clutched it and stabbed, shrieking curses. men ran from him and he ran after them, clambering up over the rail to the next ship and then the next. his two white shadows were always with him; balon swann and mandon moore, beautiful in their pale plate. surrounded by a circle of velaryon spearmen, they fought back to back; they made battle as graceful as a dance. his own killing was a clumsy thing. he stabbed one man in the kidney when his back was turned, and grabbed another by the leg and upended him into the river. arrows hissed past his head and clattered off his armor; one lodged between shoulder and breastplate, but he never felt it. a naked man fell from the sky and landed on the deck, body bursting like a melon dropped from a tower. his blood spattered through the slit of tyrion's helm. stones began to plummet down, crashing through the decks and turning men to pulp, until the whole bridge gave a shudder and twisted violently underfoot, knocking him sideways. suddenly the river was pouring into his helm. he ripped it off and crawled along the listing deck until the water was only neck deep. a groaning filled the air, like the death cries of some enormous beast, the ship, he had time to think, the ship's about to tear loose. the broken galleys were ripping apart, the bridge breaking apart. no sooner had he come to that realization than he heard a sudden crack, loud as thunder, the deck lurched beneath him, and he slid back down into the water. the list was so steep he had to climb back up, hauling himself along a snapped line inch by bloody inch. out of the corner of his eye, he saw the hulk they'd been tangled with drifting downstream with the current, spinning slowly as men leapt over her side. some wore stannis's flaming heart, some joffrey's stag-and-lion, some other badges, but it seemed to make no matter. fires were burning upstream and down. on one side of him was a raging battle, a great confusion of bright banners waving above a sea of struggling men, shield walls forming and breaking, mounted knights cutting through the press, dust and mud and blood and smoke, on the other side, the red keep loomed high on its hill, spitting fire. they were on the wrong sides, though. for a moment tyrion thought he was going mad, that stannis and the castle had traded places. how could stannis cross to the north bank? belatedly he realized that the deck was turning, and somehow he had gotten spun about, so castle and battle had changed sides. battle, what battle, if stannis hasn't crossed who is he fighting? tyrion was too tired to make sense of it. his shoulder ached horribly, and when he reached up to rub it he saw the arrow, and remembered. i have to get off this ship. downstream was nothing but a wall of fire, and if the wreck broke loose the current would take him right into it. someone was calling his name faintly through the din of battle. tyrion tried to shout back. here! here, i'm here, help me! his voice sounded so thin he could scarcely hear himself. he pulled himself up the slanting deck, and grabbed for the rail. the hull slammed into the next galley over and rebounded so violently he was almost knocked into the water. where had all his strength gone? it was all he could do to hang on. my lord! take my hand! my lord tyrion! there on the deck of the next ship, across a widening gulf of black water, stood ser mandon moore, a hand extended. yellow and green fire shone against the white of his armor, and his lobstered gauntlet was sticky with blood, but tyrion reached for it all the same, wishing his arms were longer, it was only at the very last, as their fingers brushed across the gap, that something niggled at him... ser mandon was holding out his left hand, why... was that why he reeled backward, or did he see the sword after all? he would never know. the point slashed just beneath his eyes, and he felt its cold hard touch and then a blaze of pain. his head spun around as if he'd been slapped. the shock of the cold water was a second slap more jolting than the first. he flailed for something to grab on to, knowing that once he went down he was not like to come back up. somehow his hand found the splintered end of a broken oar. clutching it tight as a desperate lover, he shinnied up foot by foot. his eyes were full of water, his mouth was full of blood, and his head throbbed horribly. gods give me strength to reach the deck... there was nothing else, only the oar, the water, the deck. finally he rolled over the side and lay breathless and exhausted, flat on his back. balls of green and orange flame crackled overhead, leaving streaks between the stars. he had a moment to think how pretty it was before ser mandon blocked out the view. the knight was a white steel shadow, his eyes shining darkly behind his helm. tyrion had no more strength than a rag doll. ser mandon put the point of his sword to the hollow of his throat and curled both hands around the hilt. and suddenly he lurched to the left, staggering into the rail. wood split, and ser mandon moore vanished with a shout and a splash. an instant later, the hulls came slamming together again, so hard the deck seemed to jump. then someone was kneeling over him. jaime? he croaked, almost choking on the blood that filled his mouth. who else would save him, if not his brother? be still, my lord, you're hurt bad. a boy's voice, that makes no sense, thought tyrion. it sounded almost like pod. he dreamed of a cracked stone ceiling and the smells of blood and shit and burnt flesh. the air was full of acrid smoke. men ere groaning and whimpering all around him, and from time to time a scream would pierce the air, thick with pain. when he tried to move, he found that he had fouled his own bedding. the smoke in the air made his eyes water. am i crying? he must not let his father see. he was a lannister of casterly rock. a lion, i must be a lion, live a lion, die a lion. he hurt so much, though. too weak to groan, he lay in his own filth and shut his eyes. nearby someone was cursing the gods in a heavy, monotonous voice. he listened to the blasphemies and wondered if he was dying. after a time the room faded. he found himself outside the city, walking through a world without color. ravens soared through a grey sky on wide black wings, while carrion crows rose from their feasts in furious clouds wherever he set his steps. white maggots burrowed through black corruption. the wolves were grey, and so were the silent sisters; together they stripped the flesh from the fallen. there were corpses strewn all over the tourney fields. the sun was a hot white penny, shining down upon the grey river as it rushed around the charred bones of sunken ships. from the pyres of the dead rose black columns of smoke and white-hot ashes. my work, thought tyrion lannister. they died at my command. at first there was no sound in the world, but after a time he began to hear the voices of the dead, soft and terrible. they wept and moaned, they begged for an end to pain, they cried for help and wanted their mothers. tyrion had never known his mother. he wanted shae, but she was not there. he walked alone amidst grey shadows, trying to remember... the silent sisters were stripping the dead men of their armor and clothes. all the bright dyes had leached out from the surcoats of the slain; they were garbed in shades of white and grey, and their blood was black and crusty. he watched their naked bodies lifted by arm and leg, to be carried swinging to the pyres to join their fellows. metal and cloth were thrown in the back of a white wooden wagon, pulled by two tall black horses. so many dead, so very many. their corpses hung limply, their faces slack or stiff or swollen with gas, unrecognizable, hardly human. the garments the sisters took from them were decorated with black hearts, grey lions, dead flowers, and pale ghostly stags. their armor was all dented and gashed, the chainmail riven, broken, slashed. why did i kill them all? he had known once, but somehow he had forgotten. he would have asked one of the silent sisters, but when he tried to speak he found he had no mouth. smooth seamless skin covered his teeth. the discovery terrified him. how could he live without a mouth? he began to run. the city was not far. he would be safe inside the city, away from all these dead. he did not belong with the dead. he had no mouth, but he was still a living man. no, a lion, a lion, and alive. but when he reached the city walls, the gates were shut against him. it was dark when he woke again. at first he could see nothing, but after a time the vague outlines of a bed appeared around him. the drapes were drawn, but he could see the shape of carved bedposts, and the droop of the velvet canopy over his head. under him was the yielding softness of a featherbed, and the pillow beneath his head was goose down. my own bed, i am in my own bed, in my own bedchamber. it was warm inside the drapes, under the great heap of furs and blankets that covered him. he was sweating. fever, he thought groggily. he felt so weak, and the pain stabbed through him when he struggled to lift his hand. he gave up the effort. his head felt enormous, as big as the bed, too heavy to raise from the pillow. his body he could scarcely feel at all. how did i come here? he tried to remember. the battle came back in fits and flashes. the fight along the river, the knight who'd offered up his gauntlet, the bridge of ships... ser mandon. he saw the dead empty eyes, the reaching hand, the green fire shining against the white enamel plate. fear swept over him in a cold rush; beneath the sheets he could feel his bladder letting go. he would have cried out, if he'd had a mouth. no, that was the dream, he thought, his head pounding. help me, someone help me. jaime, shae, mother, someone... tasha... no one heard. no one came. alone in the dark, he fell back into piss scented sleep. he dreamed his sister was standing over his bed, with their lord father beside her, frowning. it had to be a dream, since lord tywin was a thousand leagues away, fighting robb stark in the west. others came and went as well. varys looked down on him and sighed, but littlefinger made a quip. bloody treacherous bastard, tyrion thought venomously, we sent you to bitterbridge and you never came back. sometimes he could hear them talking to one another, but he did not understand the words. their voices buzzed in his ears like wasps muffled in thick felt. he wanted to ask if they'd won the battle. we must have, else i'd be a head on a spike somewhere. if i live, we won. he did not know what pleased him more: the victory, or the fact he had been able to reason it out. his wits were coming back to him, however slowly. that was good. his wits were all he had. the next time he woke, the draperies had been pulled back, and podrick payne stood over him with a candle. when he saw tyrion open his eyes he ran off. no, don't go, help me, help, he tried to call, but the best he could do was a muffled moan. i have no mouth. he raised a hand to his face, his every movement pained and fumbling. his fingers found stiff cloth where they should have found flesh, lips, teeth. linen. the lower half of his face was bandaged tightly, a mask of hardened plaster with holes for breathing and feeding. a short while later pod reappeared. this time a stranger was with him, a maester chained and robed. my lord, you must be still, the man murmured. you are grievous hurt. you will do yourself great injury. are you thirsty?  he managed an awkward nod. the maester inserted a curved copper funnel through the feeding hole over his mouth and poured a slow trickle down his throat. tyrion swallowed, scarcely tasting. too late he realized the liquid was milk of the poppy. by the time the maester removed the funnel from his mouth, he was already spiraling back to sleep. this time he dreamed he was at a feast, a victory feast in some great hall. he had a high seat on the dais, and men were lifting their goblets and hailing him as hero. marillion was there, the singer who'd journeyed with them through the mountains of the moon. he played his woodharp and sang of the imp's daring deeds. even his father was smiling with approval. when the song was over, jaime rose from his place, commanded tyrion to kneel, and touched him first on one shoulder and then on the other with his golden sword, and he rose up a knight. shae was waiting to embrace him. she took him by the hand, laughing and teasing, calling him her giant of lannister. he woke in darkness to a cold empty room. the draperies had been drawn again. something felt wrong, turned around, though he could not have said what. he was alone once more. pushing back the blankets, he tried to sit, but the pain was too much and he soon subsided, breathing raggedly. his face was the least part of it. his right side was one huge ache, and a stab of pain went through his chest whenever he lifted his arm. what's happened to me? even the battle seemed half a dream when he tried to think back on it. i was hurt more badly than i knew ser mandon... the memory frightened him, but tyrion made himself hold it, turn it in his head, stare at it hard. he tried to kill me, no mistake. that part was not a dream. he would have cut me in half if pod had not... pod, where's pod? gritting his teeth, he grabbed hold of the bed hangings and yanked. the drapes ripped free of the canopy overhead and tumbled down, half on the rushes and half on him. even that small effort had dizzied him. the room whirled around him, all bare walls and dark shadows, with a single narrow window. he saw a chest he'd owned, an untidy pile of his clothing, his battered armor. this is not my bedchamber, he realized. not even the tower of the hand. someone had moved him. his shout of anger came out as a muffled moan. they have moved me here to die, he thought as he gave up the struggle and closed his eyes once more. the room was dank and cold, and he was burning. he dreamed of a better place, a snug little cottage by the sunset sea. the walls were lopsided and cracked and the floor had been made of packed earth, but he had always been warm there, even when they let the fire go out. she used to tease me about that, he remembered. i never thought to feed the fire, that had always been a servant's task. we have no servants, she would remind me, and i would say, you have me, i'm your servant, and she would say, a lazy servant. what do they do with lazy servants in casterly rock, my lord? and he would tell her, they kiss them. that would always make her giggle. they do not neither. they beat them, i bet, she would say, but he would insist, no, they kiss them, just like this. he would show her how. they kiss their fingers first, every one, and they kiss their wrists, yes, and inside their elbows. then they kiss their funny ears, all our servants have funny ears. stop laughing! and they kiss their cheeks and they kiss their noses with the little bump in them, there, so, like that, and they kiss their sweet brows and their hair and their lips, their... mmmm... mouths... so... they would kiss for hours, and spend whole days doing no more than lolling in bed, listening to the waves, and touching each other. her body was a wonder to him, and she seemed to find delight in his. sometimes she would sing to him. i loved a maid as fair as summer, with sunlight in her hair. i love you, tyrion, she would whisper before they went to sleep at night. i love your lips. i love your voice, and the words you say to me, and how you treat me gentle. i love your face. my face? yes. yes. i love your hands, and how you touch me. your cock, i love your cock, i love how it feels when it's in me. it loves you too, my lady. i love to say your name. tyrion lannister. it goes with mine. not the lannister, vother part. tyrion and tysha. tysha and tyrion. tyrion. my lord tyrion... lies, he thought, all feigned, all for gold, she was a whore, jaime's whore, jaime's gift, my lady of the lie. her face seemed to fade away, dissolving behind a veil of tears, but even after she was gone he could still hear the faint, far-off sound of her voice, calling his name, my lord, can you hear me? my lord? tyrion? my lord? my lord? through a haze of poppied sleep, he saw a soft pink face leaning over him. he was back in the dank room with the torn bed hangings, and the face was wrong, not hers, too round, with a brown fringe of beard. do you thirst, my lord? i have your milk, your good milk. you must not fight, no, don't try to move, you need your rest. he had the copper funnel in one damp pink hand and a flask in the other. as the man leaned close, tyrion's fingers slid underneath his chain of many metals, grabbed, pulled. the maester dropped the flask, spilling milk of the poppy all over the blanket. tyrion twisted until he could feel the links digging into the flesh of the man's fat neck. no. more, he croaked, so hoarse he was not certain he had even spoken. but he must have, for the maester choked out a reply. unhand, please, my lord... need your milk, the pain... the chain, don't, unhand, no... the pink face was beginning to purple when tyrion let go. the maester reeled back, sucking in air. his reddened throat showed deep white gouges where the links had pressed. his eyes were white too. tyrion raised a hand to his face and made a ripping motion over the hardened mask. and again. and again. you... you want the bandages off, is that it? the maester said at last. but i'm not to... that would be... be most unwise, my lord. you are not yet healed, the queen would... the mention of his sister made tyrion growl. are you one of hers, then? he pointed a finger at the maester, then coiled his hand into a fist. crushing, choking, a promise, unless the fool did as he was bid. thankfully, he understood. i... i will do as my lord commands, to be sure, but... this is unwise, your wounds. do. it. louder that time. bowing, the man left the room, only to return a few moments later, bearing a long knife with a slender sawtooth blade, a basin of water, a pile of soft cloths, and several flasks. by then tyrion had managed to squirm backward a few inches, so he was half sitting against his pillow. the maester bade him be very still as he slid the tip of the knife in under his chin, beneath the mask. a slip of the hand here, and cersei will be free of me, he thought. he could feel the blade sawing through the stiffened linen, only inches above his throat. fortunately this soft pink man was not one of his sister's braver creatures. after a moment he felt cool air on his cheeks. there was pain as well, but he did his best to ignore that. the maester discarded the bandages, still crusty with potion. be still now, i must wash out the wound. his touch was gentle, the water warm and soothing. the wound, tyrion thought, remembering a sudden flash of bright silver that seemed to pass just below his eyes. this is like to sting some, the maester warned as he wet a cloth with wine that smelled of crushed herbs. it did more than sting. it traced a line of fire all the way across tyrion's face, and twisted a burning poker up his nose. his fingers clawed the bedclothes and he sucked in his breath, but somehow he managed not to scream. the maester was clucking like an old hen. it would have been wiser to leave the mask in place until the flesh had knit, my lord. still, it looks clean, good, good. when we found you down in that cellar among the dead and dying, your wounds were filthy. one of your ribs was broken, doubtless you can feel it, the blow of some mace perhaps, or a fall, it's hard to say. and you took an arrow in the arm, there where it joins the shoulder. it showed signs of mortification, and for a time i feared you might lose the limb, but we treated it with boiling wine and maggots, and now it seems to be healing clean. name, tyrion breathed up at him. name. the maester blinked. why, you are tyrion lannister, my lord. brother to the queen. do you remember the battle? sometimes with head wounds- your name. his throat was raw, and his tongue had forgotten how to shape the words. i am maester ballabar. ballabar, tyrion repeated. bring me. looking glass. my lord, the maester said, i would not counsel... that might be, ah, unwise, as it were... your wound... bring it, he had to say. his mouth was stiff and sore, as if a punch had split his lip. and drink. wine. no poppy. the maester rose flush-faced and hurried off. he came back with a flagon of pale amber wine and a small silvered looking glass in an ornate golden frame. sitting on the edge of the bed, he poured half a cup of wine and held it to tyrion's swollen lips. the trickle went down cool, though he could hardly taste it. more, he said when the cup was empty. maester ballabar poured again. by the end of the second cup, tyrion lannister felt strong enough to face his face. he turned over the glass, and did not know whether he ought to laugh or cry. the gash was long and crooked, starting a hair under his left eye and ending on the right side of his jaw. three- quarters of his nose was gone, and a chunk of his lip. someone had sewn the torn flesh together with catgut, and their clumsy stitches were still in place across the seam of raw, red, half-healed flesh. pretty, he croaked, flinging the glass aside. he remembered now. the bridge of boats, ser mandon moore, a hand, a sword coming at his face. if i had not pulled back, that cut would have taken off the top of my head. jaime had always said that ser mandon was the most dangerous of the kingsguard, because his dead empty eyes gave no hint to his intentions. i should never have trusted any of them. he'd known that ser meryn and ser boros were his sister's, and ser osmund later, but he had let himself believe that the others were not wholly lost to honor. cersei must have paid him to see that i never came back from the battle. why else? i never did ser mandon any harm that i know of. tyrion touched his face, plucking at the proud flesh with blunt thick fingers. another gift from my sweet sister. the maester stood beside the bed like a goose about to take flight. my lord, there, there will most like be a scar... most like? his snort of laughter turned into a wince of pain. there would be a scar, to be sure. nor was it likely that his nose would be growing back anytime soon. it was not as if his face had ever been fit to look at. teach me, not to, play with, axes. his grin felt tight. where, are we? what, what place? it hurt to talk, but tyrion had been too long in silence. ah, you are in maegor's holdfast, my lord. a chamber over the queen's ballroom. her grace wanted you kept close, so she might watch over you herself. i'll wager she did. return me, tyrion commanded. own bed. own chambers. where i will have my own men about me, and my own maester too, if i find one i can trust. your own... my lord, that would not be possible. the king's hand has taken up residence in your former chambers. i am. king's hand. he was growing exhausted by the effort of speaking, and confused by what he was hearing. maester ballabar looked distressed. no, my lord, i... you were wounded, near death. your lord father has taken up those duties now. lord tywin, he... here?  since the night of the battle. lord tywin saved us all. the smallfolk say it was king renly's ghost, but wiser men know better. it was your father and lord tyrell, with the knight of flowers and lord littlefinger. they rode through the ashes and took the usurper stannis in the rear. it was a great victory, and now lord tywin has settled into the tower of the hand to help his grace set the realm to rights, gods be praised. gods be praised, tyrion repeated hollowly. his bloody father and bloody littlefinger and renly's ghost? i want... who do i want? he could not tell pink ballabar to fetch him shae. who could he send for, who could he trust? varys? bronn? ser jacelyn? ...my squire, he finished. pod. payne. it was pod on the bridge of boats, the lad saved my life. the boy? the odd boy? odd boy. podrick. payne. you go. send him. as you will, my lord. maester ballabar bobbed his head and hurried out. tyrion could feel the strength seeping out of him as he waited. he wondered how long he had been here, asleep. cersei would have me sleep forever, but i won't be so obliging. podrick payne entered the bedchamber timid as a mouse. my lord? he crept close to the bed. how can a boy so bold in battle be so frightened in a sickroom? tyrion wondered. i meant to stay by you, but the maester sent me away. send him away. hear me. talk's hard. need dreamwine. dreamwine, not milk of the poppy. go to frenken. frenken, not ballabar. watch him make it. bring it here. pod stole a glance at tyrion's face, and just as quickly averted his eyes. well, i cannot blame him for that. i want, tyrion went on, mine own. guard. bronn. where's bronn? they made him a knight. even frowning hurt. find him. bring him. as you say. my lord. bronn. tyrion seized the lad's wrist. ser mandon? the boy flinched. i n-never meant to k-k-k-k- dead? you're, certain? dead? he shuffled his feet, sheepish. drowned. good. say nothing. of him. of me. any of it. nothing. by the time his squire left, the last of tyrion's strength was gone as well. he lay back and closed his eyes. perhaps he would dream of tysha again. i wonder how she'd like my face now, he thought bitterly. 